https://youngminds.org.uk/resources/policy-reports/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Policy Reports
Our policy hub is home to our reports on children and young people's mental health policy.
What impact is the COVID-19 pandemic having on education?
Read our view on the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic is having on education and mental health in schools.
How is the COVID-19 pandemic impacting young people's mental health?
Read our view on how the COVID-19 pandemic is impacting on young people and their mental health - and what we think the Government can do to help.
What changes are needed to improve young people's eating disorder services?
Read our response to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee inquiry to find out what improvements are needed.
Our Response to the Consultation on the Ofsted Education Framework 2019
Ofsted opened a consultation period for people to submit their views on it's draft Education Framework published in January 2019. Here's the response we submitted to the consultation.
Sex, relationships and health education: what needs to be taught in schools?
Earlier this year, the Government published what they think should be included in the new Relationships and Sex Education and Health Education curriculum. Here's our response to the consultation.
Student Insights Report on Green Paper Proposals
Commissioned by the Department of Health and Social Care, we carried out engagement with young people to find out what they thought of the Government's Green Paper Proposals.
Our Response to the Inquiry of the Five Year Forward View for Mental Health
The All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Mental Health carried out an inquiry on what progress has been made on the Government's Five Year Forward View for Mental Health. Here's our response.
Our View on the Government’s Green Paper
In December, the Government introduced a Green Paper with new proposals for children and young people’s mental health services. Here’s our response to the Government’s proposals.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
