https://voxeu.org/events/courses
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Events
Warwick Pre-University Summer School 2021
6 - 16 July 2021 / University of Warwick, Coventry / University of Warwick
Warwick Pre-University Summer School 2021
Tuesday 6 July – Friday 16 July
Choose between: Introduction to Economics and Finance OR A Taste of Social Sciences
Unforgettable and inspirational summer experience for enthusiastic and motivated 16-18 year-old students at the world-leading University of Warwick.
The University of Warwick is a top Russell Group University widely recognised as a world leader in research and education.
We are delighted to offer this opportunity for students to study at the University of Warwick for an exciting ten-night, fully-inclusive residential Summer School.
Students will be able to experience:
•	Engaging with like-minded peers from around the world and living alongside Warwick students who act as ambassadors during the programme
•	A taste of University life and undergraduate teaching from top Warwick faculty
•	Outstanding guest speakers
•	Personal effectiveness training, including leadership and communication skills
•	Preparing for University in the UK
•	Living on the beautiful and self-contained Warwick campus for nine nights
•	Spending one night and two days in the amazing capital city of London
•	Enjoying a visit to a top London University
•	Visiting the dreaming spires of Oxford
All students will receive a certificate of attendance from the University of Warwick.
Social Programme
The programme includes a number of evening socials on campus including a welcome BBQ and a curry, quiz and karaoke night. Students will also experience an off campus team building welcome event and tenpin bowling night. During your time at Warwick, you will also visit the historic and beautiful town of Oxford including a visit some of the Harry Potter filming locations and guided punting tour on the River Cherwell.
In London, there will be a full sightseeing programme, taking in many of London’s top sights including a guided tour at the Houses of Parliament, Covent Garden, West End theatre show and London Eye and River Cruise plus time for shopping. The visit also includes include dinners out in London and a University visit.
Accommodation
Whilst at Warwick, all students will be accommodated on campus in single-sex flats on a fully catered basis in our halls of residence, Sherbourne Halls, for nine nights. In London, students will also stay in single en-suite accommodation in South Kensington.
Admissions
Entry criteria
Students applying for this programme must be aged 16-18.  There are no subject-specific criteria but you should be a passionate and enthusiastic learner. Groups of 10+ are eligible for a free tuition teacher place.
English Language Requirements
All teaching is conducted in English so students must be able to demonstrate a good level of English language and comprehension. We assess students' English ability through their application and correspondence.
Don’t miss out on this opportunity - find out more and apply online at https://warwick.ac.uk/study/summer-with-warwick/pre-university-summer-sc...
Warwick Summer School in London 2021
18 July - 7 August 2021 / London / University of Warwick
University of Warwick Summer School 2021 in collaboration with St Mary’s
18 July – 7 August 2021
"It will broaden your horizons; what I got exceeded my expectations" Sun Mengjiao
The Warwick Summer School will be hosted in the iconic capital city of London in a location which is hard to beat.
Our Summer School is a unique combination of learning and debating with renowned academics and guest speakers, living alongside your peers in a beautiful area of London, networking, socialising and enjoying a fun, engaging social programme. It has all the advantages of easy access to central London but with the peace of a beautiful self-contained campus in the leafy suburb of Strawberry Hill.
Recommended by 97% of Summer School students.
Whether you want to boost your core knowledge, or are looking for something a bit more specialised, we have a course that is right for you. Our Summer School really does cater for everyone and includes a range of courses in Economics, Business, Sciences, Social Sciences and Humanities.
COURSES
Duration: 3 weeks full-time
These courses will provide a thorough grounding in these exciting areas of study and will reflect the highest standards of Warwick and St Mary’s learning. Students are able to sit one course from the below courses in areas of Business, Economics, Computer Science, English Language, Psychology, Management and Law.
•	Behavioural Economics
•	Communications and Marketing
•	Computational Modelling for All
•	Data Science: Foundations of Data Analytics
•	English Language for Business
•	Game Theory and Competitive Strategy
•	International Business and Finance
•	International Development
•	International Economic Law
•	Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
•	Introduction to Economics
•	Introduction to Psychology
•	Leadership, Communication and Innovation
•	Money and Banking
•	Politics and Globalisation
•	Strategic Management
10% early booking discount (apply before April 30th) and 20% group booking and loyalty discount for alumni and study abroad partner institution bookings (plus tuition fee waivers for teachers). For details, see the website.
Inspirational Guest Lecture Series
Our Summer School also offers a unique and inspirational evening programme of interactive sessions with eminent public figures. Chief Mixologist, Author, Creative Director and Co-founder of Brighton based tea company, Bird and Blend Tea Co. Krisi Smith is confirmed to deliver our first guest lecture to students and Nobel Prize Winner, Professor George Akerlof, Professor James Robinson, Author of Why Nations Fail, Former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith and Former Cabinet Secretary, Lord Gus O’Donnell have all spoken previously. The programme is included in the tuition fee. Further guest speakers to be announced in due course.
Residential Packages
We have a range of room only, B&B, half board and full board accommodation packages to suit all tastes and budgets. Accommodation is available on the self-contained St Mary’s campus. We also have accommodation options available off campus nearby in the busy student town of Kingston Upon Thames for students that prefer to self-cater.
Social and Cultural Programme
A highlight of the Summer School is our exciting social programme, many of the activities are included in the tuition fee including a welcome BBQ, three course welcome dinner at Twickenham Stadium, and a British afternoon tea farewell reception, sports activities, trip to the Warwick campus, film night and our famous curry, karaoke and disco night! In addition, we arrange day trips to London, Brighton and Oxford, Harry Potter Studios and a West End theatre trip that can be paid for separately. Your timetable leaves you plenty of free time to explore all the fantastic London sights.
See what students say on our video
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS: Students must be aged 18+ and meet their chosen course prerequisites. Find out more
APPLY NOW – www.warwick.ac.uk/summerschool
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
