https://trainingindustry.com/advertise/
Training Industry
Site Menu
Section
Topics
Certifications & Courses
Industry
Talk to us
Advertising and Content Marketing
Does your company provide products or services for learning professionals? Partner with Training Industry to reach decision-makers.
With more than 185K email subscribers and more than 350K visitors per month engaging with proprietary Training Industry research, articles, webinars and other original thought leadership, Training Industry is uniquely positioned to build connections between training professionals and training suppliers.
Training Industry Content Marketing
Training Industry can position your company to our audience through original research and research-driven publications and webinars, building the profile of your brand and developing highly qualified leads. Our industry insights and market research capabilities can inform your product development and sales strategies, and our topic sponsorships, account-based marketing services, searchable training supplier directory and no-cost referral services help connect your business with informed buyers.
We’re ready to give your business the strategic marketing support you need to reach new customers. Contact us at sales@trainingindustry.com to discuss campaign options or to submit an RFP. We’ll get back in touch within 24 business hours. In the meantime, download our Content Marketing Guide and Media Kit below.


Kristin Bolduc Director of Sales (919) 653-4981  Schedule a Call
Lindsay Ficquette Director of Sales (919) 653-4993  Schedule a Call
Karina Motelli Director of Sales (919) 653-4985  Schedule a Call
Michael Snowden Director of Sales (919) 653-4988 Schedule a Call
Footer
The most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
Free Digital Subscription
Perspectives and expertise by and for learning leaders.
Footer Menu
Legal Menu
©2020 Training Industry
Stay up to date on the latest articles, webinars and resources for learning and development.
