    SPECS - CALENDAR - AD PRODUCTS
            Media Kit PDF DOWNLOAD -->
            Ad Specs PDF DOWNLOAD
          Ad Products -->
            Editorial Calendar
            Ad Products
        
  In relentless pursuit of the ideas that matter and the stories that captivate.  
Illustration: Doug Chayka  |  From: A. O. Scott, Critic Without a Cause
 About -->
At The Atlantic, we question our answers. -->
“Explaining what just happened, and what is happening, is a core mission for The Atlantic.” Take it from Editor in Chief Jeffrey Goldberg: “The Atlantic was created for moments like this.”
The Atlantic doesn’t just report the news. For 161 years, we’ve been questioning the status quo—and challenging readers to rethink the world around them.
-->
A History of Provoking
		John Muir’s The American Forests sparks establishment of the National Park System.
		Vannevar Bush’s As We May Think was credited with predicting the rise of the Internet. 
		Republished in The Atlantic, Martin Luther King’s Letter from Birmingham Jail took the civil rights movement to the next level.
		Over a decade before 9/11, President Bill Clinton made Bernard Lewis’ The Roots of Muslim Rage required reading in the White House.
    -->
		The New York Times and others credited Andrew Sullivan’s Why Obama Matters with influencing the fate of the 2008 elections.
		Anne-Marie Slaughter's Why Women Still Can't Have It All sparks a national conversation on women and work
		Graeme Wood’s blockbuster piece What ISIS Really Wants was the most engaged article online in 2015, according to Poynter. 
		Ta-Nehisi Coates offered a history of Barack Obama’s history-making presidency with My President Was Black, leading to a second reprinting of the issue. 
            -->
History
  This section is hard coded. Ask Dante if you need changes.
-->
Audience + Platforms
We reach thinking people—and make them think harder.
The Atlantic’s audience is influential, curious, and eager to leave a lasting mark on the world. Never ones to shy away from change, they seek out new ideas, challenge conventions—including their own—and ultimately aim to foster progress.
Print
1.9MM
readers
Source: MRI DOUBLEBASE, 2018
Digital
33.7MM
global unique visitors
Source: GOOGLE ANALYTICS, AVG. MARCH 2019
Events
19k+
thought-leaders attend AtlanticLIVE events each year
Audience
 -->
  How to work with The Atlantic
  Atlantic Re:think is our award-winning branded content studio, providing our advertising partners with new ways to connect directly with The Atlantic’s influential audience.
Learn more about Re:think
Case Studies
EXPLORE
HPE
Eighteen Zeros
EXPLORE
VMware
The Possibility Report
EXPLORE
Allstate
The Lost Girls of Chicago
EXPLORE
Netflix
Collateral
EXPLORE
Forevermark
The Atlantic Interview, Season 1
  View Our Case Studies
    Awards, Notables, and Quotes
            The Atlantic has gotten very good at flipping conventional wisdom upside down.The Washington Post
            The Atlantic does this a lot: launches large, provocative conversations that you later hear endlessly dissected on cable news, in the blogosphere, and on Twitter. It is a think piece factory.NPR
            Atlantic Re:think
(Winner, Hottest in Branded Content - Adweek's Hot List 2018)
    close
    Landing
    About
    History
    Audience
    Studio
    Work
    Awards
       Learn more about our branded content studio -->
Contact Us
Hayley Romer SVP and Publisher
Bill Mulvihill VP, Advertising Partnerships
Michael Monroe VP, Marketing, Atlantic Re:think
-->
Hayley Romer SVP and Publisher
Johanna Mayer-Jones SVP, Partnerships
Peter St. John Sr. Executive Director
  Terms &amp; Conditions | 
  Privacy Policy
  Do Not Sell My Personal Information
  -->
Copyright © 2020 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
