      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: lex m/m (mature OR explicit)
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  This work could have adult content. If you proceed you have agreed that you are willing to see such content.
    Proceed
    Go Back
  If you accept cookies from our site and you choose "Proceed", you will not be asked again during this session (that is, until you close your browser). If you log in you can store your preference and never be asked again.
      ᴾⁱᶜᵏ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ ⁽ᵀᴹᴺᵀ⁾ (Book Two)
      by
      Hydrakinz
      Fandoms:
      TMNT - Fandom, TMNT2k14, TMNT2k16, Turtlecest - Fandom, BayverseTMNT
 Explicit
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 M/M, Other
 Complete Work
    11 Aug 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsDonatello/Michelangelo (TMNT) Leonardo/Michelangelo (TMNT) Leonardo/Raphael (TMNT) Raphael/Leonardo (TMNT) Leonardo/Donatello (TMNT) Raphael/Donatello (TMNT) Raphael/Michelangelo (TMNT) Donatello/Leonardo/Michelangelo/Raphael (TMNT) Michelangelo/Donatello (TMNT)Michelangelo (TMNT) Raphael (TMNT) Donatello (TMNT) Leonardo (TMNT) Agent John Bishop (TMNT) Angel (TMNT) Cody Jones (TMNT) Splinter (TMNT) Ancient One (TMNT)Romance Drama Drama &amp; Romance Blood and Gore Turtlecest (TMNT) Fanfiction TMNT Slow Burn Fantasy Fiction Terrapin Explicit Sexual Content Vampires Immortality Rape Violence Kidnapping Temporary Amnesia Pregnancy Sex Anal Sex Rough Sex Rough Kissing Oral Sex Rough Oral Sex beastiality Gay Sex
    Summary
      " ᴾⁱᶜᵏ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ "ᴵˢ ᵇᵃˢᵉᵈ ᵘᵖᵒⁿ ᶜᵒᵐᵖˡᵉᵗᵉ ᶠⁱᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ ᵃⁿᵈ ⁱᵈᵉᵃ'ˢ ᴴʸᵈʳᵃᵏⁱⁿᶻ ʰᵃˢ ᶜᵒˡˡᵉᶜᵗᵉᵈ ᵒᵛᵉʳ ᵗʰᵉ ᵖˡᵒᵗ ᵒᶠ ʰᵉʳ ᶠᵃᵛᵒʳⁱᵗᵉ ᶠᵃⁿᵈᵒᵐ ᵒᶠ ᵃˡˡ ᵗⁱᵐᵉ, ᵀᴹᴺᵀITS OFFICIAL, BOOK THREE IS COMING!This is BOOK TWO, if you haven't read book one then you won't understand the upcoming plotline. I suggest you read BOOK ONE if you haven't already. Thank you and Cowabunga!This Story Contains #Turtlecest. ໓໐ຖ't likē, ໓໐ຖ't rēค໓.In the second installment of The Poison Trilogy, the story continues but is a thousand times different than the last. The turtles continue to face treachery between the four. The boundaries they argue with daily and even the new arrival in the family.  The plot thickens even as the seconds pass by and from here, they have decisions to make and possibilities to fight against. Donnie reveals a secret that shakes Leo to his core, and Mikey learns some new moves that surprise everyone. What else is there to happen? You wanna know? Then join me on this second journey and end it for real this time! Or maybe, maybe it'll never end.
    Series
          Part 2 of The Poison Trilogy
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    171,931
    Chapters:
    51/51
    Comments:
    83
    Kudos:
    28
    Bookmarks:
    6
  Hits:
  2201
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
