      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Part One (Or; THE PLOT.)
2. Yeah, sorry, plot crept back in (FML)
3. Cue the Training Montage
4. Interviews are Hell
5. In Which There Are Problems (Or; Everyone Has Is...
6. Sorry it took so long DX
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Not Rated
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Categories:
               F/MM/M
              Fandom:
               Pacific Rim (2013)
              Relationships:
               Chuck Hansen/Raleigh Becketbackground Mako Mori/Hu Weibackground Sasha Kaidanovsky/Aleksis Kaidanovskybackground Stacker Pentecost/Herc HansenRaleigh Becket &amp; OCRaleigh Becket &amp; Mako Mori?/?background Newton Geiszler/Hermann Gottlieb/Vanessa Gottlieb
              Characters:
               Raleigh BecketChuck HansenMako MoriStacker PentecostHerc HansenTendo ChoiNewton GeiszlerHermann GottliebSasha KaidanovskyAleksis KaidanovskyWei Tang Clanmultiple OCsVanessa Gottliebcharacters that can't be specified because PLOT
              Additional Tags:
               FluffAngstAUSentinel/GuideAlternate Universe - Sentinels and Guides Are KnownFamilies of ChoiceSlow BuildNo one's past is sunshine and rainbowsYou Have Been Warned
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Fate Has...Verse series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2013-10-20Updated:2015-05-27Words:83584Chapters:6/?Comments:942Kudos:427Bookmarks:172Hits:20517
      Fate Has A Fucked-Up Sense of Humor
      artimusdin, missixo, StrikerEurekaTech (purplexeyed)
          Summary:
              The Sentinel/Guide AU you didn't know you wanted. (Maybe.)Raleigh Becket is a Sentinel. He's been a Sentinel for five years--five, long fucking years, in isolation, atop the Wall in Alaska. By all accounts, he shouldn't be sane. But he is--mostly--and when Stacker Pentecost comes to collect him, he makes an offer Raleigh can't refuse.The chance to fight again...and to find his Guide.The two Guides who train him drag him from existing to living; one even becomes his co-pilot. But they are not his Guide. It's not until much later on that he realizes his Guide has been glaring at him almost the entire time.
  Notes:
      For temporaryobsession (alexiel_rain).
      "I know, I know, it's something of a clichéd crossover, but I really do love it and I keep thinking that Raleigh would make a good Sentinel for a reason. Maybe Mako is his guide? But I'm actually partial to the Raleigh/Chuck pairing :) all the yummy UST in the film was enough to win me over." – Prompt from the kink meme, link is here:  For this? Pentecost finds/nabs/convinces/manipulates/gets Raleigh around the end of October instead of in January. Because training, folks. And I don't mean the fun kind in the Kwoon.I am also royally fucking with the timeline. Like, seriously. Everything except the final two fights gets bumped up. Meaning by the time I intro everyone else, it's only about...oh, mid-December. Like December 12th. Meaning there is about a month of time with all the pilots there, prepping and training and living before the double, then triple event. I am also kinda just fucking with canon in general. Be prepared for the fix-it fic to end all fix-it fics, gang.Also, for plot purposes:Echo Sabre is now an Aussie jaeger.Vulcan Specter is now a Mark-4.Also. This is ridiculously fucking slowburn. LIKE RIDICULOUSLY. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
    (See the end of the work for more notes and other works inspired by this one.)
      Chapter 1: Part One (Or; THE PLOT.)
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Marshal Pentecost surveyed the ex-pilot that had him taken years to track down. He was thinner, gaunter...not quite haunted. But there was something a bit off. Almost like the younger man was having trouble focusing...
Raleigh Becket's grin was razor sharp. "Noticed?"
That was when it clicked into place. "Sentinel." The older man paused. "Can't be safe, working in construction unbound."
That got him an indifferent shrug. "Learned to deal with it. Zones aren't that bad."
The Marshal narrowed his eyes. "And if I told you coming with me meant you'd not only pilot Gipsy Danger again but would have a Guide?"
"Not interested." Was the cool response. But the Marshal knew better; he'd spotted the faint flicker of interest in the ex-pilot's eyes.
"Not interested in being able to focus properly again? Not interested in having someone to look after and be looked after by? Not interested in having a true equal?"
The blond twitched; it was a small, almost unnoticeable one, but it gave the Marshal pause again. He had to remind himself he wasn't dealing with a bonded Sentinel; one under his command and as balanced as a Sentinel could possibly be while trying to protect not only their Guide, but the entire world. This was a Sentinel who had been alone for five years; who had not had a Guide, a soothing influence or most likely any sort of training, as he had not been a Sentinel when he started the program.
Becket watched him, like he knew what he was thinking and the almost feral smile was back. "Trauma triggers it, remember?"
Pentecost nodded. "So would you rather rot here on this damn wall or save the world from the conn-pod of a jaeger, with your Guide as co-pilot?"
The other man was an inch away from his face before he had a chance to blink.
"My Guide will not be put in harm's way." The blond hissed, eyes flashing.
Pentecost kept his expression neutral. "Some of our present pilots are Guides. More might join their ranks. Your call, Becket." He turned and began to walk away.
It wasn't long before he heard footsteps behind him, even if Raleigh Becket was snarling softly at this blatant—but effective—manipulation.
Pentecost didn't care: he needed Becket for this and if playing off his protective instincts were what it took? Then so be it.
-x-x-x-x-
He stared at what the Marshal had handed him. It was a pill of some sort. He...wasn't sure what it was; Pentecost hadn't said. It smelled off; like disinfectants, like processed plants. He wrinkled his nose; between the smell of the pill and the thousand plus other scents vying for his attention on the damn helicopter, he was starting to feel nauseous.
Pentecost returned. "It's a suppressant. It'll enable you to function until a Guide can be found for you."
Raleigh made a face but downed it with some water. He was surprised; the water, at least, was definitely for a Sentinel, as it had no contaminants or other oddities that would give it a flavor.
"You'll be sparring with each of the cadets, as well as our pilots, once you're adjusted."
"Adjusted?"
"As a Sentinel, you don't just have heightened senses. Your reflexes and strength are also better, which means you will have to re-learn sparring. I won't have any of my Rangers out of commission because you cannot control your own strength."
Raleigh's lip curled in an almost-snarl before it faded abruptly. He recalled, absently, how he had been able to do several things while building the wall that, quite frankly, should not have been possible. The number of times he had nearly fallen, then suddenly found his balance. The fewer number of times he had, in sheer frustration, managed something that involved more strength than he should have had.
"Becket!"
He started, barely managing to stop himself from lashing out. "What?"
Pentecost was starting to look like he regretted coaxing/manipulating him off the wall.
Raleigh suppressed an eye roll. It was his idea to bring him along, take him off the wall, bring him back to civilization. He'd gotten used to living and working on the wall. The sharp smell of metal, the familiar smell of sweat, the days when it was so cold even his ability to detect scents was compromised. He'd liked those best, honestly, but...that wouldn't be the case now. He was going back to a Shatterdome. Just the memory of waking up in one, surrounded by all of the smells, sounds, was enough to make his nausea worse.
Abruptly, his sense of smell weakened, which meant the sick-smell that had been adding to his nausea disappeared. The sound of the chopper blades went from nearly-painful to muted. His clothing, some of which had been extremely uncomfortable, stopped irritating his skin. The nausea lessened, then faded.
"Suppressants." Pentecost repeated.
Raleigh swore there was a hint of smugness in his tone.
Forget having a Guide as copilot; keep him supplied with suppressants and he would be just fine.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh felt a bit adrift and not in the ghost-drifting sense. He was...used to relying on his senses, especially smell and hearing. Both meant no one snuck up on him, no one surprised him. Sight, he had learned to reign in within the first three weeks of coming online or else he'd have been completely useless. By reigned in, however, he meant all but shutting it off. Attempting to use his sight like a true Sentinel opened him up to too much of a risk of a zone. Touch...well, he'd learned to ignore it. Either he was uncomfortable or he was cold and he much preferred uncomfortable. Taste was no problem; the gruel they served for working half to death each day was the epitome of tasteless. Water was more of a problem but he preferred the off-taste to dehydration headaches.
But smell and hearing? He'd come to rely on them. Heavily. He didn't realize just how heavily until one of the others in the chopper managed to sneak up on him, twice. After that, he moved to the furthest corner he could reach and started paying attention. He hated being surprised, especially after...He kicked the thought away. That way lay a zone and it wouldn't be one Pentecost's yelling would be able to draw him from.
"Still with us, Becket?"
Raleigh smothered the urge to snarl and settled for giving Pentecost the best bitchface he had at his disposal.
...he wasn't expecting him to be impressed, but he wasn't expecting the almost-amused dismissal.
The person who kept supplying Pentecost with paperwork edged away from Raleigh, who turned his bitchface on them.
They quickly disappeared back into the cock pit.
Pentecost gave him a look that said clearly "behave" before he resumed his paperwork.
He grumbled to himself before settling and watching for the paperwork gremlin. Staring out the window would not end well, as he might be tempted to use his Sentinel-enhanced sight to get a better look at something. And while Pentecost had managed to pull him from an almost-zone...he had a feeling the man wouldn't be able to manage a true zone. He was commanding, a good leader from what he recalled, but Guide material he was not.
-x-x-x-x-
Meeting Miss Mori was...different. He knew, even with his senses muted, that she was a Guide. And while her presence made him want to simultaneously cuddle up with her and curl around her protectively, he knew instinctively that she was not his Guide. 
When he made his way to the room allotted to him, he was surprised to find it was clearly for a Sentinel. He hadn't seen anyone contacting the Shatterdome on the way back, so he was unsure of how that had happened. Then again, his senses were still muted, so someone could have called and he simply hadn't caught it...
A pamphlet was on the bed. "A Sentinel's Guide to the Senses; Or, How to Find Your Guide in--" Was as far as Raleigh read before he chucked it in the bin.
He already knew he had all five; he already knew his sight was good for nothing but zoning; he already knew he needed to learn how to dial down his senses of taste, hearing, smell and touch; he also already knew he'd have to be able to successfully meditate to do all those. As well as have a Guide.
Meditation was something he hadn't attempted, not since Knifehead. He swallowed, shoving back the memories that were trying to drag him off and under. What the med techs who'd tended him hadn't known was that Raleigh didn't come online after the event. He came online seconds before Yancy was ripped from the conn-pod. He'd been in complete agony all the way to the shore; it had been doubled by his newly heightened senses.
Before he drifted into a zone, his sense of smell kicked back up. He paused, then sniffed again. Whatever had just made its way past his door smelled...like man and sweat and deodorant, but something else too. Something almost like...like how his mom's pies had smelled, when he was little. With him and Yancy and Jazmine and his mom and his dad all crowded in the kitchen, the smell saturating their house, accompanied by warmth and laughter and family.
He blinked, then buried the memory. And tried to focus on dialing back down his sense of smell.
...perhaps the suppressant was wearing off?
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh eyed the bin; the pamphlet peeked out, as his throw had been imperfect. He debated picking it up to see if there was anything about the suppressants. Especially if they normally wore off on one sense only. The clock showed it was clearly time to eat and, admittedly, he was hungry but...
The idea of heading into such a crowded area, full of all the sounds and smells, not to mention that the food would probably be a lot more flavorful than he was used to...he shook his head. He'd wait until it was no longer prime-food-time, then go. ...then again, he was assuming it was like the Icebox in terms of what the time was when most went for dinner.
A small sigh escaped him as he slowly, painstakingly, began to work on dialing down his sense of touch. His clothing felt almost...normal. He was hoping this was due to some measure of control, not the suppressants. He turned his attention to attempting to dial down his sense of smell when there was a knock on his door.
Frowning, he rose and peered out through the helpful little spy-hole.
A woman wearing the normal 'tech' uniform stood there, expression vaguely annoyed.
"Yeah?" He asked, opening the door.
"Our dear leader sent me to play Guide until one can be selected from the candidates." She responded drolly. 
He nodded slightly. 
"Y'wanna practice here? Or d'you want me to show you where the best place for a Sentinel to relax is?"
"...here." He replied after a moment.
"Alright. Y'comfortable with me comin' in or...?"
He stepped aside and closed the door behind her.
"What d'ya wanna know?" She asked as she settled on his floor.
-x-x-x-x-
So far, Raleigh had learned that no, it wasn't normal for suppressants to suddenly wear off on one sense; every Sentinel had potential Guides but there was a Guide out there for them somewhere even though most eventually settled for the best potential one; bonding was, depending on the pair, either easy and loose or long and complicated; he had 'instincts', one of which had apparently been played upon to get him here (and her eyes had darkened in such a way that he knew the Marshal would be getting some sort of bitching at for that, despite the fact that she had not projected at all); and, the most important: do not underestimate Guides.
"So...you're a Guide...?"
"Yup." She popped the 'p', but it wasn't obnoxious. "Enough about me; what d'you need to know? Any other questions, concerns, kvetches?"
"Is meditation really necessary?"
She nodded. "Mental discipline and all that jazz. Helps with the controlling the senses bit. T'be honest? Wouldn't try it solo. Most Sentinels need a Guide to ground 'em."
He nodded, swallowing.
"D'you have any training at all...?"
"No. Self taught."
She sighed. "Alright. Show me what y'know."
-x-x-x-x-
Half an hour later, the unnamed tech looked suitably impressed.
"What?"
"For someone with no trainin', y'did pretty well. Especially where yer eyes are concerned. Not many'd be able t'figure that out."
He shrugged, but nodded when she offered to walk him through dialing down his senses.
-x-x-x-x-
She laughed at his expression. "Feels better, yah?"
He nodded.
"Ready t'try goin' to the mess? Or d'yah wanna try that another time?"
"Not today."
She nodded. "Fair enough. Will yah come t'medical at least? The one in charge of us Guides is all but frothing at the mouth 'bout you."
Raleigh made a face.
"Not in a jaeger fly way. In a 'holy fuck whose brilliant idea was it not to give him any training when I find the med techs that discharged him without it I will string them up by their innards' kinda way."
He huffed, the faintest of smiles tugging at his lips.
"So. Med bay?"
He rose, still not quite happy but willing to go along.
As they headed down several musty-and-likely-underused-corridors, he found himself relaxing slightly. This tech, whoever she was, knew her stuff. 
"What's your name?" He finally asked after several moments.
"Wh...oh. Oh fuck. I'm sorry. I do that, sometimes. Moira."
"Raleigh." He supplied, even though she most likely knew.
She grinned. "Nice t'meetcha, Raleigh."
"There you are."
Moira gulped and looked like she was contemplating hiding behind Raleigh as a formidable looking man approached them, looking none too pleased.
-x-x-x-x-
After having a near-apoplexy over the stupidity and cruelty of the med techs who had discharged him, the head Guide asked him a series of questions. Most seemed stupid, but he...didn't want to disappoint either of them. He figured it had something to do with them being Guides and him being a Sentinel but he wasn't sure how it factored into it, exactly.
Moira observed, sitting on one of the beds. Her legs were short enough that they didn't touch the ground; she seemed quite happy enough to swing them as she hummed some sort of pop song.
"Why aren't you distracting?" He finally asked when the head Guide went back to get what he assumed was his file.
"Hm? Oh. Cuz I'm a Guide, I guess. I'm supposed to be soothing?"
"You have no idea."
"Preeeetty much. I'm kinda the default Guide until someone gets properly assessed. I thought for sure the Marshal would have Mori work with you, but..." She shrugged. "At any rate, when did the suppressants go wonky?"
"Smell just kinda..."
"Went off?" The head Guide missed little.
He nodded. "Was just in my room."
Moira frowned. "Huh. Weird."
"I'll look into it. At any rate, when was the last time you had any physical contact?"
Raleigh stared at the head Guide. "The fuck?"
"Physical contact is important to Sentinels, even unbound ones."
He thought back. "...does a fist fight count?"
"No it most certainly does not!"
-x-x-x-x-
From there, the head Guide had ranted and raved and muttered unflattering-sounding things before he produced a schedule. For the next week—at least—Raleigh was to report to the meditation area with Moira and practices with dialing down his senses. He also had mandatory cuddling with her.
The look on his face made her laugh. "Relax." She murmured. 
"Doesn't this..."
"No, I'm not some sort of touch-prostitute." Moira projected amusement, which made him relax.
When he made a face, she smiled.
"I always get that question, man. Used t'it now."
The head Guide looked like he wanted to facepalm; Raleigh just shook his head.
"Might as well go start--"
"We were workin' on that afore we came over here. If y'want him to have more than one of us t'work with, yeh'd do better to assign 'em now. That said, food and rest'd prolly be best right now." She cut in.
The head Guide frowned, but nodded. Then consulted his list. "Mori will join you two during your next sessions. Becket, I'd like you to get used to working with both Mori and Rowan, here."
"Isn't that a type of..."
"Wood. Yes."
He nodded in recognition, then led the way out after the other male shooed them out. 
The prospect of being alone after having spent time with someone who was calm and patient and understanding...it was not a pleasant one. Not to mention he had a feeling he'd be getting a true go-over from medical tomorrow. His dislike of the med ward, coupled with most likely not being permitted to exercise in order to exhaust himself so he could sleep...
"Hey." The gentle hand on his arm made his tensing muscles unlock. "Why don't you come grab some food with me? We can go find Mori, so you two can be intro'd or at least get a chance to talk before training."
He hesitated, then nodded, deciding not to point out that they had already met. At this point, he did not want to be alone, even though the idea of heading to the mess was a bit daunting.
"C'mon."
He followed, steeling himself.
-x-x-x-x-
When he was led to a small hallway that was close to the mess but not too much so...he was surprised.
"Mr. Becket." Mori greeted, a hint of what he wanted to term surprise in her tone.
"Miss Mori." He murmured in response, inclining his head slightly.
"Moira. Now that we've all said names, how 'bout we do the eating thing, yeah?"
The smallest of smiles appeared on Mori's face before she motioned them to the small kitchen.
"This is...?"
"The mess hall for Sentinels. Or those with people-phobia."
"It's anthropophobia." Came a testy voice.
Raleigh all but whirled around to find a middle-aged man behind them, leaning slightly on his cane. He was followed by a manic-looking man with glasses who was all but bouncing in place as they waited.
"My apologies, Dr. Gottlieb." Moira responded with a bow.
"Hey, new guy!" The other one grinned.
"Newt, Dr. Gottlieb, this is Raleigh. Raleigh, Newt and Dr. Gottlieb. Resident scientists."
Raleigh nodded tightly. The older-looking one, Dr. Gottlieb, seemed alright. A bit testy, but not ridiculously so. The smaller one, Newt...he narrowed his eyes.
"Sentinel." He stated flatly as he considered Newt.
Newt blinked. "Yeah, I am. You're one too?" Instead of hostile, he seemed...happy.
Raleigh fought the urge to move in front of both Moira and Mori. He did not want another Sentinel this close to them, especially one who was definitely...different.
"Relax." Mori murmured as Moira placed her hand on his arm again. "He is alright. He tends to view Sentinel-based things, like instincts, more as...scientific curiosities."
He glanced back at the other Sentinel, who merely grinned. A small sigh escaped him but he nodded. He kept both Guides in front of him, though. 
The three claimed an empty table after getting their food; Mori and Moira started to talk shop. Raleigh felt no need to join in, so he simply let the words wash over him as he ate. It was...surprisingly soothing. He was starting to think he'd been wrong, about not needing or wanting a Guide.
"So how long have you been online?" Newt chirped as he claimed the seat next to Moira.
Raleigh closed his eyes and barely managed to rein in the urge to punch the man. Twin waves of relax-its-fine washed over him from Mako and Mori, though neither made a move to touch him. He was all but instantly calmer, the desire to punch the other man gone.
"...sorry." The other Sentinel muttered. "Forgot not everyone's come online kinda...randomly."
"Five years." Raleigh finally offered.
"Wow." Newt murmured. "Who trained you?"
"We are." Mori cut in. "So not interrogating him would be appreciated, Dr. Newton."
"It's Newt." He grumbled, but there was no anger, no growl in his tone, so Raleigh stayed calm.
A long-suffering sigh escaped Dr. Gottlieb.
-x-x-x-x-
When they reached his room after dinner, the three hovered awkwardly. Raleigh did not know how to ask them if helping him sleep was possible, but it seemed neither was in a rush to let him to his own devices.
"Cards?" Moira offered, holding up a deck she'd extracted from her pocket.
Mori nodded; Raleigh knew, without looking, both could feel the relief coming from him. He opened his door to admit them and all settled themselves in for a card game.
"What if..." Mori began, then hesitated.
Raleigh turned his attention to her.
"What if, when we win, we tell something of ourselves?"
He paused, considering.
"So we turn it into a trust-building/getting-to-know-you exercise. I like your style, Mori-san!"
Mori smiled slightly; both seemed alright with the idea. Raleigh nodded.
-x-x-x-x-
Two hours later, he was the most relaxed he'd been since...
"Wanna pause and take a break for meditation?" Moira's voice dragged him from his near-zone.
He nodded and settled into the position most used when meditating. Mori and Moira scooted closer, so one of their knees was touching him, while the other was touching each other. The contact alone made him relax, even though it was just knees brushing.
-x-x-x-x-
When he woke up, everything hit him at once. The slightly musty smell of the room, coupled with two distinct scents that were of the Guides who had been here prior, the roughness of his pants as they dragged across his legs like sandpaper, the noise of however many people were in his range—the breathing, the moving, silverware clattering—
Everything cut off just as abruptly; he knew, without getting up, that both Mori and Moira were at his door. It might have been because they were projecting concern alongside their calm-quiet. He rose and let them in, hissing slightly when the bright light assaulted his eyes.
After two hours of meditation and dialing down his senses, it was better. 
He sighed softly. "Thanks." 
Mori wordlessly offered him a water bottle; Moira an apple. He accepted both, then watched as they exchanged a water bottle for a piece of fruit. 
After all had eaten and disposed of the remains of their meal, they all exchanged glances.
"Practice more or d'you think you can handle a tour of the Shatterdome?" Moira eventually asked.
His instincts—or what he thought they were—said he should stay in his room, his territory, with the two Guides who were helping him. Neither of them were 'his', but he wished to protect them all the same. On the other hand...he did want to get out. Wander around, stretch his legs...
"Medical would like to see Mr. Becket first." Mori murmured.
Raleigh tensed, but nodded. Both nudged him him; Mori using empathy, Moira with her knee.
"We won't abandon you to the needle-bastards, dude. Promise." Moira pulled a face.
"They do not like you anymore than you like them." Mori responded without any bite.
"Well, makes sense. I'm a horrible patient." The other girl shrugged, then rose and offered both a hand up.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh was startled when both Guides kept their word. Anytime the med techs tried to suggest they leave, they were swiftly corrected: with a bland, almost polite look from Mori and a bitch face from Moira. Both made him decide, quickly, that he had no desire to anger either of them. Especially given how quickly the med techs gave in once faced with either look.
He tolerated most of the poking and prodding without argument, but he knew both Guides could sense his rising agitation. It just reminded him too much of...
A hand on his arm, coupled with a querying-nudge from Mori pulled him out of his near-zone instantly.
"Thanks." He murmured.
Mori gave him a slight smile; Moira looked to do about the same before another tech suggested that they leave.
"Alright, enough." 
"We're not yet--"
"I don't care. We can do this in short shifts. Today's is over."
The med techs looked sour, but one took a look at his chart and quickly ushered the rest out.
"How 'bout lunch, then?"
Raleigh's stomach chose that moment to growl. Mori sighed quietly but led the way after he slipped his lumpy sweater back on.
"Was it necessary to do that?" Mori asked once they were out of earshot of the infirmary.
"They already dislike me and Becket here--"
"Raleigh." He murmured.
Both stopped and looked at him.
"Raleigh is fine." He elaborated.
"Raleigh it is, then."
Mori nodded.
"Raleigh was gettin' unsettled and apparently none of the techs thought to look at his chart prior t' beginnin', elsewise they'd've known that they were only unsettlin' him further every time they tried t'send us away." She continued. "Besides, like I said...they don't like me. It doesn't matter if they get pissed cuz I was rude. You hold yourself to a higher level of conduct than I do; I admire you for it, honestly, but I really don't have that kind of discipline."
"In fewer words, you knew if I interceded, it would have been in a polite manner, which would have taken time since the medical techs were too focused on Raleigh." Mori stated.
She nodded. "Pretty much."
Raleigh smiled, slightly, as the Guides walked in front of him. Moira seemed to do more talking, but Mori was concise, though not nearly as non-verbal as he was. He felt...fairly content. Like he had prior to Yancy's death.
He waited for the zone but it didn't come; he turned his gaze back to the Guides in front of him. If this was how much more focused, how much...better...he was, after just a day or so in their company...
-x-x-x-x-
After that, his days took a pattern. The three met in his room—his 'territory', both Mori and Moira called it and he didn't think they were joking—for a light breakfast, then worked on meditation and dialing down his senses until 11. From there, they went to medical, where he begrudgingly let them poke and prod and run tests on him for a half an hour. It was made slightly more bearable by the snarking back and forth between Moira and one of the med techs. Occasionally even Mori joined in, but only when the med tech was out of line.
From there, they met up with Dr. Gottlieb and Newt for lunch. He spent most of his time listening to the conversations, just soaking them and the companionship in. After a week or so, the topic of astronomy coupled with Greek mythology got brought up. It had gone strong since, which both amused and exasperated him. Amused because it was obvious the four conversationalists were extremely different people, but all had the same interest in either the stars or the myths. Exasperated because it had been almost a month, now, and they were still going.
After that, since he had largely been cleared by medical, he was allowed in the Kwoon. He either ran through practice drills on his own or observed the other two. If they weren't in the Kwoon, they were either giving him a tour or showing him where they worked and what they did. He honestly preferred working with Mori to working with Moira, as Mori was a silent, steady worker. Moira was loud and bouncy and gave him near-heart attacks with how haphazardly she seemed to move around the hangars, let alone on the jaegers themselves. 
Gipsy was almost finished being restored. He both dreaded and looked forward to the day she was. On one hand, it meant he'd be in the conn-pod again. The last place he saw, heard, spoke to Yancy. On the other, he'd be doing the only thing he had ever really wanted to do: pilot. He was...nervous, to be honest. Who would they give him as co-pilot? He'd made himself clear in regards to whether the person could be a Guide or not, but...he didn't know if Pentecost would listen.
After working with one of the two, they would go to the side-mess hall, grab food and retreat back to his room. They normally ate in silence, then resumed the now-normal card game where winner had to give some sort of tidbit about themselves if they won. While they switched the game itself up often, he found himself enjoying it nonetheless. Both Guides were relaxed and open with him; he was starting to open up to them as well. Once between five or ten hands had been played—less if someone was winning too often and getting self conscious—the three would sit on his bed, sides touching and watch some sort of film. 
The contact grounded him, soothed him in even a way their empathy didn't. He was almost giddy off it, which both terrified and surprised him. He'd had little to no contact while he had been on the wall, unless a handful of fist fights counted. For the most part, he'd kept to himself, hadn't tried to make friends, had just existed...
And now, between Mori and Moira, it was like he was slowly being woken up, being dragged back from 'existing' to 'living'. Dr. Gottlieb and Newt were part of that too, though Newt getting too close to either Guide still made him tense and fight the urge to snarl at him to back off.
It was weird. Both Guides never mocked or chided him for this; they simply helped him calm and that was it. He guessed the protectiveness was part of the whole Sentinel package, but then why had he not been that way on the wall? Were there really no Guides there...?
"Rahls!"
A knock at the door caused all three to start, which in turn caused him to smother a snarl. He put himself between the Guides and the door before he flung it open.
A surprised Tendo Choi blinked at him.
The tension began to seep out of his form. "Tendo." He managed out as calmly as possible.
"Sorry to startle you. Just figured I'd drop by, say hi..."
Raleigh nodded stiffly. The two stood there, awkwardly, until Mori sighed.
"He is a Sentinel, Choi." 
"Oh." There was a wealth of realization in that tone. "My bad, man. If I'd known, let alone that you were with Guides..."
Raleigh sighed. "Not your fault. I've been here a month and still haven't stopped to see you."
Tendo glanced, briefly, at Mori and Moira. "Well, now I know why. It's good to see you, though."
He nodded before offering a "you too".
The rest of their conversation was short, but a hell of a lot less awkward. Tendo smiled and waved before he headed off to do whatever it was the J-Tech Chief did in his downtime.
Raleigh watched him go silently and for the first time in a while, cursed the fact that he'd come online.
-x-x-x-x-
"We can try going into the mess hall if you want to, Raleigh." Mori murmured as they finished meditation. Moira was absent today, as one of the jaegers from the Sydney Shatterdome was in for emergency repairs after a drop nearby.
He nodded, reluctantly. 
His control was ridiculously better and, so long as either Mori or Moira was around, he could easily use one of his senses as Sentinels normally did. The problem with going back out amongst crowds was more of a matter of his memories. His time on the wall. His time in medical. They were not pleasant, they were not happy and they were not something he wanted to relive. And while he knew both Guides would help him out if he started zoning and he had even gotten better at catching himself, as well as not zoning as much in general...he knew most of the people here most likely saw him as a fuck-up. A washed-up has-been who Pentecost dragged here because he had no other choice. And he had no desire to prove them right, especially not with what was at least a fourth of the damned Shatterdome there.
"M—Raleigh?"
He smiled slightly; he knew she'd been about to call him Mr. Becket. "We can." 
-x-x-x-x-
When they were at the door, he almost turned around and went back to his room. He liked his room. It was small and smelled like him and the Guides he had gotten to know and trust. It was also fairly calm and quiet and lacked the fanfare that the packed areas of the Shatterdome had in spades.
Then he reminded himself of what he was here for. Why he was here. How the fuck was he supposed to even think about getting back into Gipsy's conn-pod if he couldn't even brave the mess hall for a meal?
The whispers began almost the moment he and Mori entered, but both ignored them in favor of food. They claimed an empty table; Newt and Dr. Gottlieb soon found them, then joined them. 
"Yer in my seat, has-been."
The entire mess hall seemed to quiet at that.
Raleigh knew there was someone standing behind him. That they were near or of a height with himself. Male, probably well-muscled if the body heat coming off them was any indication. Knew they had a dog—no idea what kind, but definitely one that drooled a fair bit. The scent beneath that—the one unique to each individual—was...slightly familiar. He'd definitely been somewhere near them before?
"Ya deaf? I said--"
"Heard what you said." Raleigh responded without turning around. He'd identified whoever the annoying voice was as a Guide. No threat.
"Then—"
"Chuck, leave him be." Someone else slid into the open seat on his left. He flicked his gaze that way, briefly, and saw that it was Herc Hansen.
Which meant the annoying one behind him was most likely Chuck Hansen.
He recalled their kill-count and suddenly felt sick. Chuck Hansen was a Guide. He had no place in combat, in danger, in a jaeger. Even if he was one of the best, every instinct Raleigh had was completely against it. Guides did not belong in danger, regardless of how well-trained. 
Not Chuck Hansen. Not Mori. Not Moira, either.
"Don't mind my son. He's..."
"Difficult." Dr. Gottlieb finished blandly.
Raleigh nodded; he focused his hearing and heard boots stomping away. He guessed the younger Hansen must have stormed off...?
Herc watched him, then nodded, seemingly content with what he'd found in Raleigh's expression. The conversation about myths and astronomy resumed, though Herc, like Raleigh, seemed to prefer listening.
"Found a co-pilot yet?" Herc finally questioned.
"Been training, but they haven't wanted to risk the cadets yet." That thought left a bitter taste in Raleigh's mouth. He would never purposefully harm someone in sparring. It went against his nature as a Sentinel, especially if his sparring partner was a Guide.
"Risk the—you're a Sentinel?"
He glanced at Herc again, then nodded. 
Herc frowned.
That was when realization dawned and he had to leave the mess hall before he was sick.
Both Hansens were Guides. Neither were bound.
...then again, that might be a good thing. Them going out into danger as they did? Would be enough to drive any Sentinel bound to them insane.
-x-x-x-x-
"What happened?" Mori asked softly as she coaxed him to eat some fruit she had brought with her.
"They're Guides." He managed out.
"They—Ranger Hansen and...the younger Hansen?"
He nodded tightly, jaw muscle working. "They're Guides and Pentecost just lets them--!"
A wave of calm-quiet enveloped him as he struggled with his temper.
"They're Guides." He growled out, knowing he was projecting frustration and helplessness and rage.
"I know." Mori murmured and placed a hand on his shoulder. "The Marshal is not a Guide nor a Sentinel. He does not know, does not understand."
"He understands enough." Came the tired, flat grumble as Moira entered with her lunch. "Y'better take some, man. Tendo did his Tendo-thing and got me extra food for yeh."
That helped to dissipate some of the lingering rage and frustration, but not by much. Having two Guides he knew and trusted, though...that helped a lot more. They were here, with him, safe. He could protect them, at least.
He reluctantly ate some of the food, then ate a bit more when both Guides glowered at him.
"At any rate...Striker's fixed. Jesus fucking Christ on a cracker."
Raleigh suppressed a growl. "Damage?"
She sighed. "It'll only piss y'off more, Raleigh."
"Don't care."
Mori and Moira exchanged glances.
"Not as bad as it could've been, but not the best either. They're talented pilots, not gonna deny that ever but...they're not careful. They're really not."
The blood in Raleigh's veins felt like it had iced over. Reckless, was the word she had skirted around. The word that named the attitude, the series of actions, that had cost his brother his life. Before he had time to take that thought any further, he was sandwiched between two Guides who were doing their damndest to calm him.
He let the warm-calm-safe-comfort feeling envelop him and was dragged into a discussion of Lord of the Rings, which they had watched last week. The fantasy-talk helped ground him further, but he knew no matter what was done, the little ball of frustration-rage-helplessness would continue to exist, continue to simmer until the kaiju were killed off for good, whatever Pentecost's plan was.
He didn't even want to think about what would happen if the Hansens were killed in combat.
-x-x-x-x-
His daily routine was shaken up the next day when, after just an hour of meditation/training, he was escorted to the med bay by both of the Guides.
"Alright." The head Guide murmured once he had settled himself as comfortably as possible. "You're cleared. For the first week, though, only to practice with Guides. Especially these two."
"Two?" Raleigh repeated, glancing at Moira.
"Two." Moira responded cheerfully enough.
"As to the suppressant malfunction, well, no leads yet. But I've only skimmed the surface of the database in between playing psychologist to the largest kindergarten class to ever grace the face of the planet." He added, face appropriately deadpan.
Raleigh resisted the urge to laugh. Barely.
The sudden, if small, smile that bloomed across the head Guide's face made it worth it, though.
"Good job, all three of you."
-x-x-x-x-
"Finish meditation or dial-down practice, then lunch, then spar?" Moira suggested.
"Sounds good." Raleigh responded. 
Mori smiled; Moira whooped.
He looked between them, visibly confused.
"You are becoming more verbal. This means that you are healing." Mori explained. "We had wondered, whether our assistance was helping..."
"And now we know for sure." Moira finished, grinning.
He nodded then resumed heading back to his room. Both kept in step with him, projecting happiness. He guessed healing wasn't so bad, then, if it meant they were happy. Maybe he could be happy again too...
-x-x-x-x-
"Who the fuck let the has-been room here?" Came the irritated snarl as the three approached his room.
"Let it go." 
That hurt, honestly. He knew that Herc agreed, even if he hadn't said as much. He respected the man; for him to be in agreement with his asshole-son...
"He's not a fucking pilot, he's a has-been who sacrificed his fucking brother!"
Raleigh felt the blood drain from his face. He wanted to lash out, to snarl and attack and prove to this insulting little bastard that he had not, would not ever. Not anyone, especially not his brother...! But his instincts held that urge at bay, as the speaker was a Guide. An unbound Guide. 
Fortunately for his peace of mind, neither Mori nor Moira had such instincts.
Moira guided him to his room; he could tell despite her not projecting that she was furious. It might've been the shaking or the way that her jaw was clenched.
When Mori joined them moments later, there was a cut on her eyebrow that sluggishly bled and her knuckles were split. Raleigh's stomach dropped—Guide hurt Guide hurt Guide hurt—but Moira and Mori deftly and quickly treated the minor injuries.
"Relax." Mori stated. "I am fine."
"Hansen fucking won't be, when I get my hands on him." Hissed Moira. "I don't give a flying fuck who he is, you don't say shit like that."
Mori sighed. "The Marshal will not be happy..."
"He can be as unhappy as he damn pleases. This is fucking bullshit!"
-x-x-x-x-
Mori was suspended from the program for a day for the fight; the Hansens and their jaeger were sent on their merry way.
While the person in question accepted the punishment without reservation, well...Raleigh and Moira? Not so much.
The two ranted and raved back and forth at one another, working the other up, while Mori observed.
"I appreciate that you are willing to defend me." She murmured during a slight break in their tirade. "But I knew my actions would have consequences and I accepted them the moment I lashed out."
"Fist fighting is supposed to have consequences." Moira returned. "But that should be the same for both parties—including the motherfucking assturd who egged you on."
"Agreed." Raleigh seethed. 
"Knock knock!" Chirped Newt as he poked his head in.
"Newt." Raleigh greeted flatly. He was beginning to get used to the other man, the other Sentinel. His instincts weren't happy about that, not exactly but...
"I had an idea..." Newt murmured; Dr. Gottlieb greeted them all stiffly, face long-suffering.
"And I have a vision of the Shatterdome coming apart at the seams because of your 'idea'." Moira retorted, smirking when Newt scowled.
Raleigh was startled but pleased to note his instincts didn't direct him to remove Newt's head from his body.
"Well, you'll need to learn how to deal with your instincts while sparring with other Sentinels, yeah?" Newt addressed Raleigh.
He nodded, not sure he liked where this was going.
"Well. Why not spar with me? You're kinda used to me, right?"
Mori, Moira and Gottlieb exchanged 'I don't like this, I really don't like this' looks.
"Kinda." Raleigh echoed. He wasn't too sure, either. Then again...he did need the practice. And while he had gotten much better at controlling his strength, especially when he went up against either of the Guides...there was a chance the one most drift-compatible with him would be a Sentinel.
"Well, c'mon then!" Newt prodded cheerfully.
"For the record? I really, really think this is a bad idea." Moira mumbled as they headed to the Kwoon.
"Is that why you've switched accents?" Dr. Gottlieb responded drolly.
"Both are normal for me but sure, yeah, let's go with that." The female Guide mumbled.
-x-x-x-x-
Surprisingly, it did not end in unmitigated disaster. Raleigh was able to keep up with the sprightly Sentinel; he was also able to keep himself in check, keep himself under control. He did not lash out inappropriately or harm Newt, though towards the end it got a little close.
He shook hands with the man afterward and was a bit taken aback by how easy it was, for the most part.
He remained silent through lunch, tuning out the still-going conversation on astronomy and Greek myth.
-x-x-x-x-
"...is it...normal?" He finally asked once he and—he tried not to think of them as 'his', because they were not...and yet they felt like they were, sometimes—the Guides were safely in his room.
"Specify." Moira prodded while Mori looked at him curiously.
"The...control."
"How well you handled this?" Mori prompted.
He nodded.
"It depends. If it was someone who had extensive training over a period of time, it would be normal. Abnormal for them to lack this control." Mori murmured.
"In your case, s'pretty damn good. Especially since it's only been, what, a month an' a half or somethin'?"
Raleigh nodded. "So the Marshal..."
"Will prolly wanna test y'soon. Yeah. Give it another week or til th' end of the' week an' he'll prolly start havin' y'spar with the cadets."
Mori considered it before she nodded in agreement. "This seems most likely."
Raleigh poked around for the cards as he considered his feelings on the subject. On one hand, he was...he'd be lying if he said he wasn't excited to be back in the conn-pod, back in Gipsy. Ready to fight and defend and protect. On the other, the thought of stepping foot back into a conn-pod, let alone that conn-pod, brought the icy chill of sheer terror back to the fore. Yancy's last emotion, communicated directly through the Drift before the sudden--
Moira's hand ended up on his shoulder as Mori gave him the empathic version of a hug.
He shuddered, then found himself the filling in a Guide-sandwich. "Thanks."
"No thanks needed. We are Guides, we are to stop you from zoning."
"It's what we do, duh."
Mori glowered at Moira.
Raleigh chuckled, slightly. "Powerpuff girls?"
Mori stared at him, while Moira cracked up.
"You are officially my favorite person ever." Moira managed out as she wiped away tears of mirth.
Raleigh smiled. Awkwardly.
Mori covered her smile with a hand. "She does not mean it as a proposal or confession, Raleigh."
He relaxed slightly. While he...he'd be lying if he said he wasn't wondering, now, what it'd be like to be bound to a Guide. Let alone to his Guide. But with how he was right now? He didn't think being bound to someone would be a good idea. Drifting, to be honest...well, it'd be safer now that he had some measure of control. It wasn't quite ingrained, not yet, but it was getting there. Thankfully he'd had no more episodes, no more complete lapses in control. And while neither of the Guides wandered very far, he knew that part of it had to do with his improved control.
"Chill." Moira added. "You'n'Mori are already on my 'favorite people' list simply by virtue of being friends."
"Just friends?" Mori pressed.
"Don't get me wrong, you're both awesome but..."
"You want your Sentinel, not a Sentinel." Raleigh offered tentatively.
She grinned. "Yeah. I don't mind helping out and making friends is always welcome but..."
"No offense taken." Raleigh looked away and smothered a sigh. While being able to think of Yancy most times without zoning or a raw, exposed feeling...the constant wondering about his Guide, if they even existed...it made him feel young and stupid again. Like some lovesick teenager sighing over a crush. One he'd never seen, never met, had no idea what they were like or what they looked like.
"Broody McBrooderson. How 'bout we watch a movie instead of cards for tonight?" Moira suggested.
"Really?" Raleigh responded flatly.
Mori covered another smile, but both of them ended up giggling, which got her giggling as well.
-x-x-x-x-
As predicted, at the end of the week, Pentecost allowed him to begin to spar with the cadets.
Thanks to training with Mori, Newt and Moira, he was able to keep himself well in hand. He was faster and stronger but tempered; he knew the exact amount of strength to use so as to win, but not do harm. He also held back as far as speed went, since most of the candidates were not Sentinels. Those that were got less...mercy...than those that weren't.
In spite of being able to control himself to an extent that he knew impressed the Marshal—whose eyebrows had been raised; he didn't need to be Mori or Moira to know that meant surprise—it was still an unmitigated disaster. None of the recruits clicked, even slightly. There was absolutely no compatibility between him and them. If anything, some of them were the antithesis of compatible with him; twice he had to finish the match sloppily before he lost control. (To be fair, both of them had been Sentinels who were eying Mori or Moira, so they'd brought that reaction on themselves.)
Pentecost frowned. He could almost see the man running through their options; he could always make them run through every candidate again, but he knew the Marshal knew this would do no good. 
"Sir?" Mori spoke up.
Raleigh glanced at her sharply, then to Moira. Mori ignored him, focused on Pentecost; Moira shook her head, as though telling him not to ask.
Pentecost looked like he had swallowed a lemon, but nodded stiffly. Mori's eyes widened before she handed her clipboard to Moira, then pulled off her heavy outer shirt. 
Raleigh fought the urge to snarl at Pentecost as it clicked; Mori was being tested as a candidate. When he glanced at her, though, he could see how happy she was about this. She...wanted to fight, wanted to be a pilot. He closed his eyes for a moment, took a breath; shoved the sick feeling in the pit of his stomach down. With any luck, they wouldn't be compatible.
-x-x-x-x-
They were. They were almost perfectly matched; nearly as good as he and Yancy had been. If they'd had more time together, a chance to get to know one another better, he knew that both of them would have been as evenly matched as he had once been with his brother. The pride on Mori's face...
He didn't want to quash it. But the idea of getting in Gipsy with her, bringing her into danger...it made him sick. Guides did not belong in combat, even if they were trained. Even if they were clearly his equal in terms of fighting.
Pentecost seemed to smother a sigh as he turned; Moira obligingly turned the clipboard over to him.
"I've seen all I need to know."
Raleigh shoved the sick feeling down again and managed out, "me too." He put an arm around Mori. "She's my copilot." Every instinct he had gnashed their teeth at that declaration but he shoved them away. Mori was...she was trained. She knew what she needed to do. And he'd rather her in the conn pod with him, than in the Shatterdome without. When it was put that way, his instincts quieted some.
Pentecost considered him. "Meet in one hour for testing. You'll find out who your copilot is then."
Raleigh nodded, jaw clenched.
Mori and Moira exchanged glances, then coaxed him back to his room.
-x-x-x-x-
"You have not changed your mind about Guides and combat, have you?" Mori murmured after watching him pace his small room for the past fifteen minutes.
"Haven't." Raleigh bit out. "But." 
Both approached, as he'd stopped. Once they were in arms' length, he pulled both into a hug. 
"But." He started again. "It's what you want. And you...you're good."
"Think of it this way." Moira added. "You'll be with Mori, so she'll be safe. And you can help protect the Hansens, too."
"Are you sure?" Mori questioned. 
Raleigh nodded, though he knew he was pale and most likely shaking. "You're my copilot, Mori."
She smiled, though there was a hint of concern there. "Then it should be Mako, now. Since we will be inside one another's minds."
That threw Raleigh for enough of a loop that he forgot, for a moment. "A-are you sure?"
Mori—no, Mako—nodded. "That goes for you as well."
Moira blinked. "But, I'm not gonna be in either of you guys' heads. Well, I hope so. Weird shit happens in the drift, or so I've heard."
A weak huff of laughter escaped Raleigh; Mako grinned slightly.
"As long as the Marshal says it's alright, then..." Mako murmured. "We are copilots."
Raleigh nodded. "We'll do it. Together."
Moira ruined the moment when she asked, "are we quoting Digimon now?"
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh held still while the dive suit techs outfitted him with the aforementioned tech. It was different from his old one; it was sleek, pure black...yeah, the distraction wasn't working. He was still tied in knots over Mako being his copilot.
On one hand, she wanted it. He knew, without her projecting, that she did. For the brief moment she had projected, it was such a tangle of emotions that he couldn't even begin to understand. Either way, he knew she wanted to fight. And he also knew she was damn good; had beaten him 4-3 in their match. Had managed to take him down, so he was flat on his back on the mat, looking up at her in shock.
His instincts weren't so swayed. While the idea of her being safe with him quieted them somewhat, he was still going into combat. With a Guide. Who he should be protecting. And the argument that bringing her along was protecting her didn't seem to be working. He focused on the fact that she would be safer with him; that he could also protect the Hansens...
He pushed down the flashback that threatened to overwhelm him as he entered Gipsy's conn pod. He took a breath, then released it. For better or worse, he was back. And so was Gipsy. It was time to see who he'd be sharing headspace with, though he didn't dare try to use his senses to do so. He had much better control than before, but he knew that doing so right now would be a bad idea.
Mako smiled at him as she entered, helmet in hand.
Raleigh was nearly swept away by a wave of relief-sickness but pushed it away. He was...he trusted Mako. She could do this. Which meant he had to be able to as well. That gave him pause; did Guides even have instincts in relation to combat? He shook the thought away and got into position.
"Ready?" Tendo's voice came from the comm. 
"Weapons offline?" Raleigh asked before he could stop himself. Mako, to his knowledge, had yet to drift; he had no idea what'd happen, what with all the fucked up memories he'd bring with him. The last thing he wanted was to risk demolishing the Shatterdome.
"Yeah, bro, no worries. We remembered."
The unspoken 'this time' made the smallest of bitter smiles cross his face. His and Yancy's first test run had nearly created a new skylight in the Icebox, courtesy of the plasma cannon.
He glanced to Mako, widened his smile and toned down the bitterness. She nodded, smiling back in return.
"Ready?" Tendo asked again.
"Yep."
"Yes."
"Initiating neural handshake..."
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh barely made his shaking fingers do as he commanded; he fumbled getting Mako out of the harness but caught her and pulled her to him. She was still wide-eyed and shocked; she leaned against him, trying to catch her breath.
"At least the roof's intact." Raleigh found himself mumbling shakily.
The slightest smile was Mako's reply; he pulled her closer, trying to offer what comfort he could.
Now he knew. Knew what caused the complicated mess of emotions. Knew why she wanted to fight. Knew why this was so important to her.
They'd fucked it up. Him by breaking out of alignment first because of his memories of Yancy; her  because her memories were too strong. 
"Think you can give it another go?" He asked quietly once her shaking stopped.
She nodded, expression determined.
"That's enough for today." Pentecost stated. There was a beat of silence before he added, "we'll try again tomorrow."
Mako relaxed; Raleigh let out a soft sigh, then helped her up. He kept his arm around her as they exited the conn pod; the idea of letting her far from him was unsettling right now.
-x-x-x-x-
The idea of facing everyone in the mess hall was too daunting. Neither were hungry; they instead retreated to Raleigh's room.
"Sorry." He offered.
"We both messed up." She responded as she considered the wall.
"Aaaaaand that's a wrap. You both fucked up, you both learned something, now angst time is over." Moira stated as she made her way in with enough food for all three.
"You're a bit of a force of nature, aren't you?" Raleigh found himself grumbling as he was prodded into eating.
"Fear me, for I am Hurricane Moira." She snarked, deadpan.
Instead of the usual laughter, they just grinned weakly.
"Alright, I'll stop with th' botherin'. Just eat, alri'?"
"Aye aye, Captain." Raleigh muttered.
Once they finished eating, the three sat on his bed together; for the first time since they had drifted, Raleigh found himself relaxing. Mako, in turn, relaxed as well. Moira just threw a blanket over both of them.
"Where y'goin?" He slurred, exhaustion catching up with him.
"I'll be right back." Was the mysterious reply.
"Hate it when she does that." He mumbled petulantly.
Mako just giggled quietly, leaning against him. He smiled slightly and rested his head on top of hers; both were safe and warm and comfortable. They'd messed up, but they hadn't done it in the field. No one had been in danger; no one got hurt because of it. In retrospect, things could have been worse.
-x-x-x-x-
The smell of chocolate woke him. 
"Nnnn?" He grumbled. 
Mako's smile peeked over the edge of her mug, which held some sort of steaming liquid.
Moira offered him his own cup; he accepted it and looked down to find hot cocoa with marshmellows.
"How...?" He asked softly.
"M' grandda. He doesn't approve of me bein' here, not really. But he supports me in his own way. An' he knows how much I love hot cocoa." She supplied before taking a swig from her own cup. "Mmm. And, yes, I am a dork. Because Harry Potter gave me this idea."
"Drifting is on par with dementors?" Mako responded.
"I'll agree the most recent one was." Raleigh muttered before he took a sip himself. The taste, one he hadn't had in a while, was heavenly. And the warmth that seemed to seep into his core and spread from there? That was just a bonus.
The three spent the rest of the time talking about inconsequential things; both Raleigh and Mako felt better, between the casual chatter and the cocoa. Moira just grinned and offered to get them each another mug.
-x-x-x-x-
"Raleigh." Herc Hansen nodded in greeting.
Raleigh nodded stiffly back. "Sir."
Chuck glared, seemingly trying to kill him with his gaze.
Mako ignored him and greeted Herc considerably more warmly.
Moira, who'd just wandered in, stopped. Then stared. "Who the fuck invited them?"
Raleigh shrugged; Mako gave a hum of acknowledgment but did not otherwise respond.
"Who the fuck invited you?" Chuck snapped back, then got a soda dumped on his head, coupled with a danish to the face. As he spluttered angrily, Moira dragged him and Mako off.
-x-x-x-x-
All three jolted awake at once.
"Uh..." Raleigh mumbled.
"That happens, sometimes. The dream sharin'." Moira supplied before bursting into giggles.
"Wait..." Mako murmured. "I heard Chuck was ambushed in the cafeteria before he left..."
"Guilty as charged." Moira managed out. "I told you guys he'd wish he hadn't."
"You actually dumped a soda on him, then ...danish'd him?" Raleigh choked out.
"Yes. Yes, I did. An' I'm happy to report his faces at th' time were just as hilarious as in that dream."
Mako shook her head, stifling her amusement, while Raleigh and Moira laughed til their sides hurt.
-x-x-x-x-
"You are horrible but it is awesome." Raleigh stated as the three of them headed to breakfast.
"Thank you very much, kind sir." Moira responded before snickering.
Mako shook her head. "How is it I am the youngest?"
"Uh. You were born last?" Moira supplied while Raleigh snickered.
The failure last night seemed so much further away; almost like it was in a different life time. The fact that he was laughing and joking and carrying on with two Guides who trusted him—one of whom had been inside his head—...it was nice. Comfortable. The most at home he'd felt since Yancy had died.
"I told ya they'd be useless." Came the annoyed tones of Chuck Hansen.
Mako and Raleigh, as one, grabbed Moira and pushed her towards the food line. As funny as the soda-danish prank had been, a repeat was not needed.
"Asshole." She seethed as she handed them trays.
"No arguments." Raleigh muttered.
Mako was silent.
-x-x-x-x-
"Oh, look, it's Rahhhhleigh. Thought you'd've ran off again. All you seem to be good at doin'." Chuck called as the three took seats at Newt and Dr. Gottlieb's table. Mako and Raleigh ignored him, though they both squished Moira between them, as she was radiating murderous intent.
"He's a bit of an ass, huh?" Newt supplied in lieu of conversation.
"No. Arguments." Moira bit out before stabbing her eggs.
Dr. Gottlieb sighed. "He needs to learn some manners. Even you behave better than he, Newton."
"Newt." Said scientist pouted.
"Newton." Dr. Gottlieb responded.
Moira's eye twitched.
Mako and Raleigh looked at each other, then decided it wasn't worth it and went back to eating.
"Today has to be a Monday." Moira mumbled as the argument between Newt and Dr. Gottlieb got pettier.
"Nope, Wednesday, actually." Raleigh sighed.
-x-x-x-x-
"Petition to ban Chuck from LOCCENT." Raleigh muttered as he and Mako got suited up.
"I can start one?" Moira offered mildly. The other two had managed to calm her down, although she still glowered at Chuck whenever he was in view.
"I'll sign." One of the dive techs muttered as they attached a piece of the suit to Raleigh.
Raleigh sighed and glanced at Mako.
She was calm, resolute. Through the weak neural bridge between them from the first failed drift, he could sense that she was just as she appeared. There was no panic, no reluctance.
Both walked towards the conn pod; this time, they'd do it right.
-x-x-x-x-
"Ready?" Tendo asked hesitantly.
"Yep!"
"Yes."
"Initiating neural handshake."
-x-x-x-x-
Both were buffeted by memories but this time they were able to ignore them, let them flow past as they were supposed to. He felt Mako smile, slightly, as they synced. 
Tendo's gleeful "synced and ready to go, guys!" caused him to grin as well.
As one, he and Mako moved; Gipsy moved with them. It was a heady feeling, being back in a jaeger. Tendo had them walk her around the hangar. As the two passed LOCCENT, they saw the Marshal watching; even from this distance, it was obvious he was proud.
That, combined with how happy Mako was, helped Raleigh to tell his instincts to fuck off.
-x-x-x-x-
"Why the hell d'we have t' go back t' Sydney for the decom?" Chuck growled, then shrunk slightly under the glare leveled at him by Pentecost.
"Orders are orders." His dad responded tersely.
The Wei Tangs watched, seemingly mastering their amusement at Chuck's sudden backing off. The Russians stood together; tall, imposing and impassive. Mako and Raleigh exchanged small glances but neither showed amusement at Chuck's reaction.
"While they are gone, I expect the three remaining teams to socialize. This means outside of the Kwoon, gentlemen." Pentecost's firm look lingered on the Wei Tangs, whose innocent looks fooled no one. "When Striker returns, Echo and Vulcan will be accompanying her. Becket, Mori, you will shadow Echo's team when they arrive. They are a bonded pair, unlike you two, but they might have tips for you on how to handle fighting as Sentinel and Guide."
Raleigh and Mako nodded in unison; their neural bridge had only strengthened since the last drift. He thought he saw the corner of Sasha's mouth twitch at that, but he decided it was a trick of the lighting.
"Dismissed." Pentecost stated; the teams obligingly left his office, though Chuck was still fuming.
-x-x-x-x-
"It has been a while, Becket boy." Sasha greeted as she and Aleksis took the seats across from Raleigh and Mako.
The two had chosen to sit in the smaller mess hall, as they were conversing via the neural bridge and both had agreed the noise levels in the larger one would too much to deal with.
"Privet." Raleigh responded; it was the only Russian he knew, aside from some colorful words he had no intention of ever saying to Sasha because he liked living.
His horrible pronunciation caused both of their lips to twitch into almost-smiles. 
"Good to see you again." Mako stated; Sasha offered her a small bow, similar to the one Raleigh had offered upon their greeting. 
Aleksis did the same before he remarked, "you are having grown since last time."
Mako ducked her head slightly. "Still not as tall as you."
Raleigh glanced at Sasha; she seemed faintly amused by the interaction.
"Yo!" Greeted one of the Wei Tangs as the three claimed the rest of the seats at the table.
Raleigh and Mako nodded; Sasha gave them a bland look; Aleksis grunted in acknowledgment. 
"I am Cheung. That is Jin and that is Hu."
He nodded, still not sure he'd be able to tell them apart until he got to know them better. Mako's amusement at that thought drifted across the bridge. 
"What is the Marshal having in mind, you think?" Sasha queried after all had begun to eat.
Raleigh paused, considering, then shrugged. "Not sure." 
"Another run on the Breach." Cheung suggested; Jin made a face while Hu focused on his food.
"It has not worked before." Aleksis rumbled.
"Hey, mind if we join?" Newt's smile didn't drop at all when all the pilots turned to look at him. Dr. Gottlieb looked like he was about to sigh, though this one looked more to be of amused exasperation.
"Do not start with Becket boy." Was Sasha's coolly calm proclamation as Newt dragged chairs over for him and Dr. Gottlieb. 
"Newt's not a problem." Raleigh supplied before he covered a yawn.
Mako smiled as the triplets and the Russians exchanged glances.
"You are Sentinel, are you not?" Jin asked.
"Yeah, I am. But I've been around Newt pretty much every day since I got here."
"Speaking of everyday...where's our tech-friend?" Newt prodded.
Those unused to his antics stared at either him or Raleigh.
He shrugged. "Been busy, I guess. She said something about battening down the hatches..." He frowned. While she wasn't his Guide and he had no intention of bonding with her...she was still a Guide. And definitely a friend.
Mako covered her giggle with her hand. "Her brother is a pilot. One of the four due back with the Hansens."
"How does it work?" Hu interrupted.
"What?"
"Piloting as Sentinel and Guide. We were always told it would not work." Hu replied.
Raleigh and Mako exchanged glances, then shrugged in unison.
"Hey, turn on the tv!" One of the techs yelled, skidding into the room. "There's a kaiju attacking Sydney!"
For a moment, Raleigh swore he felt the same icy spray that had hit him after Knifehead tore the conn pod open. He shook it off as the tv was turned on.
"Where are they?" Aleksis grumbled as the kaiju approached the Wall of Life.
Vulcan Specter, Echo Sabre and Striker Eureka were all there, all in Sydney. Yet there was no sign of them as the kaiju—now dubbed Mutavore—began to bash its way through the wall. In a matter of moments that felt like hours, the wall buckled like a sodden sandcastle and it was free to march through the city. Mutavore let out a triumphant roar before it made a beeline for the packed and unevacuated buildings.
The entire room was silent; a sick, sinking feeling that Raleigh could almost sense despite lacking that particular version of empathy. He discreetly took Mako's hand under the table, hoping to help her, ground her. He saw Newt doing the same for a visibly paler Dr. Gottlieb.
"Where are they?" Jin repeated, his voice weaker than Aleksis's had been.
No one knew; no one had any answers.
Raleigh shoved down the thought that made him want to puke; that this kaiju had somehow already destroyed the three jaegers the Sydney Shatterdome housed. Mako's hand tightened on his; she projected a shaky assurance.
The entire room was frozen: where were the jaegers? Was this the future of the human race?
Then Echo raced into view, with Vulcan and Striker not far behind. The sudden cheer that went up echoed around the entire Shatterdome.
"What the hell kept them?" Jin growled. The other pilots exchanged glances, none wanting to admit that they, too, had doubted. The fight afterward was brief and brutal.
That didn't help after all saw the casualty count slowly rising in the corner of the screen.
"What took you so long?" Snarled a reporter at the six pilots as they approached for an interview.
"Y' got yer Prime Minister t' thank fer that." Chuck seethed back, accent even stronger when he was mad.
"He cut the power supply to the Shatterdome because, as he put it—" One of the four unknown pilots began.
"—'the wall will hold, gentlemen. Can't have you mucking it up'." Finished the one Raleigh assumed was his copilot; this one, though, bore a strong resemblance to Moira.
The reporters turned on the formerly smug-looking Prime Minister. The six pilots made their escape in the confusion.
"Jesus fucking Christ." Moira mumbled from the doorway. Mako motioned her over; Raleigh scooted over so she could join them. 
"That is stupid." Sasha stated, eyes still on the tv. Her expression was cold.
"That is politics." Moira agreed. Sasha turned her stare on the tech, then gave her a small nod.
Aleksis frowned. "We should be happy they all survived, yes?"
Raleigh nodded, ignoring the nausea at the thought of the six having perished—not just because the Hansens were Guides, either. Another one—he wasn't sure which—was also a Guide. Mako and Moira both gripped his hands tighter; their comfort was much calmer, much more stable now.
"All the more reason to end this." Hu finally murmured. "Before anyone else is harmed."
"It is late for that now." Jin returned bleakly as the casualty toll on the screen climbed into the thousands.
It shocked Raleigh that his first thought in regards to that was, "Chuck is not going to be happy".
-x-x-x-x-
"So your brother..." Raleigh began.
"One of Echo's pilots, yeah." Moira returned.
Mako shook her head as the Wei Tangs and the Kaidanovskys argued over what music to put on.
"Which?" He pressed.
"He's a Sentinel. No worries, though; he's used to me working with others. So long as I don't deny we're related, he's cool with it."
"...was that meant to be a joke?" Dr. Gottlieb questioned.
"It was. Am not feeling funny at the moment."
Raleigh nudged her; she just handed him a little red candy.
Almost instantly, the triplets were focused on her, which allowed the Kaidanovskys to claim the radio in favor of Ukrainian hard house music. 
She gave each of them one as well, then offered Newt and Dr. Gottlieb some.
Raleigh grumbled but took the candy. "Cherry." He remarked, startled.
"Yep. Lemon for Hu, grape for Jin, watermelon for Cheung."
Dr. Gottlieb looked startled, but pleased. "You are a bit different than the typical Guide, aren't you?"
"I try?" Was the semi-confused sounding reply before she offered the Kaidanovskys some candy as well.
"Where have you been getting this?" Aleksis wanted to know as he enjoyed his root beer flavored one.
"My grandda. He knows I like sweets."
"We would like to speak to his supplier." Sasha stated. 
"...I can give you his email?" Moira mumbled, looking like she'd rather hide behind Raleigh.
"Did you bring the cards?" He asked, as much to divert attention as to hopefully make her more comfortable.
"I did. You wanna play?" She fished them out of her pocket.
Newt and Dr. Gottlieb had to bow out, as they had science to do, but promised to join another time. Moira decided she'd rather watch—since she knew once the three jaegers returned, she'd be working, so she'd relax while she could—which left Mako, Jin, Hu, Cheung, Aleksis, Sasha and Raleigh to play.
"What games d'you guys know?" Raleigh asked.
They responded in Chinese and Russian; Mako smothered her smile at the dismayed look on his face.
Eventually they reached a consensus and played gin rummy. Moira offered a handful of candy for bets; from there, it was on. 
-x-x-x-x-
Twenty hands later, everyone had won at least once. The candy pile was empty, everyone having claimed one each time they won.
"You will be practicing tomorrow, yes?" Aleksis rumbled.
Raleigh nodded.
"I would be liking a match."
"Sure." He murmured. It'd be...interesting.
Sasha smiled slightly. "I will as well."
The triplets grinned. In unison.
Raleigh and Mako exchanged "wait, what?" looks as Moira burst into giggles.
"A pilot's life fer you!"
"No." Raleigh stated flatly as the triplets and Kaidanovskys stared. "Just, no. Leave them out of this."
"What?" Cheung questioned.
"...do you have the movies?" Raleigh found himself asking.
"Nah. I can borrow 'em from Newt, though." With that, she wandered off.
"It is easier to watch than explain." Mako supplied as they waited for her to return.
-x-x-x-x-
"The movie was...interesting." Sasha commented as the seven warmed up in the Kwoon. They hadn't agreed on a time to meet; they just happened to all end up there at the same time. Either that, or the other five knew Raleigh's schedule better than he thought.
"Are there more?" Jin asked.
"Three others. But I don't know if Newt has them." Raleigh responded as he smothered a yawn.
Mako smiled; it was good to see him interacting with others. Especially in a positive manner.
"I am first!" Cheung stated, then tossed a staff to Raleigh.
He caught it, then grinned. This would be something different; it'd been years since he'd sparred against another Ranger. Prior to Knifehead, he and Yancy had switched sparring partners all the time. It was good for developing and refining moves, but it was a bit easier, going up against someone who didn't have access to your mind the the way a drift partner did. Then again, it was also a bit harder because whoever it was used a style that you weren't used to. Either way, Raleigh was hard put to think of anything negative right now, because if there was one thing he always enjoyed, it was a good spar.
-x-x-x-x-
"Not bad."
All, who had been cooling down, turned to find that they'd gathered quite the audience while they sparred. (Eventually, everyone had sparred against everyone else; they'd decided it wouldn't be a fair match if Raleigh had been the only constant competitor.)
The six Sydney pilots, plus assorted techs, were crowded in the doorways. The speaker was Herc and his eyes rested on Raleigh.
Who ignored him, aside from a nod of acknowledgment. He was still irritated over the comments the last time they'd had any sort of interaction; Herc might not have been the one who'd said it, but he knew the man agreed. While he still respected him as a soldier; as a person, well...
"Heya!" Greeted one of the unfamiliar four pilots as the techs streamed out, presumably due to the changing of shifts. "You must be Raleigh." He offered a hand, but did not move too close to him.
Raleigh accepted it; this man looked similar to Moira, which meant he was presumably her brother. And he was also a Sentinel, which explained the distance.
"I'm Chance Johnson."
Raleigh nodded as another man followed the first; he also shook this man's hand when offered.
"Chance Cordus, Guide."
He was, quite frankly, taken aback. Normally—not counting Newt, anyway—Guides were the friendly ones and Sentinels the standoffish. In this case, it was the complete opposite. The Sentinel was relaxed, open and completely okay with Raleigh being close to and actually touching his Guide. The Guide, however, looked rather annoyed and seemed to not want anything to do with him.
"Been a while, Vanya." Greeted Sasha.
Chance—the Sentinel one—ducked his head with a grin. "Yeah, it has. How've you been?"
Raleigh continued his cool down, Mako the closest, while Moira's brother—dammit, why the hell did they have the same first name? This was going to get annoying really fast—made small talk with the Russians. 
Cheung smirked. "You, too, are Sentinel?"
Chance grinned; his Guide sighed.
"Lemme guess. Wanna spar?"
"Hell yeah!" Jin responded; Hu and Guide-Chance exchanged long-suffering looks as everyone else moved out of the way.
"Heard you had a decent test run."
Mako stiffened beside him; he ignored the speaker, well aware that comment was addressed to him by one asshole-Guide.
-x-x-x-x-
"Whew." Chance wiped the sweat from his forehead. "You guys are brutal. I like it!"
His Guide facepalmed as the triplets laughed, taking it as a compliment.
"By the way. For clarity's sake. I go by Chance; the spoilsport over there goes by Cor."
Guide-Chance/Cor flipped him off.
The triplets introduced themselves; Mako chimed in a beat after.
"Newest pilot, huh? Welcome to the club, I guess. We always did need more female representation...not that you're not suitably terrifying, Sasha."
She gave him an icy, predatory smile that had Aleksis chuckling and Raleigh contemplating diving for cover and dragging Mako with him.
"If you start on that, I am locking you out of our room." Cor stated flatly.
"Shutting up now." Chance mimed locking his mouth shut and throwing away the key.
"Pretty sure it's about lunch time." Herc remarked pointedly. The two extremely quiet pilots obligingly scuttled off, leaving Herc, Chuck, Chance, Cor and those who'd been practicing.
"Sorry, mate. Still on Sydney time. So I'll have to pass on food." Chance grinned to accompany his statement, but the smile didn't reach his eyes. Cor looked like he was smothering a smirk as he pointedly did not look at Herc.
"We already stopped for lunch. Hours ago." Aleksis added.
"It is late for lunch." Hu chimed in; his siblings shrugged, before one tackled the other into an impromptu wrestling match. Sasha rolled her eyes but moved to stand beside her husband; Aleksis looked down at them, amused. The two pointedly did not crash into them even though they ended up moving in their direction.
Mako glanced to Raleigh; Herc's gaze was now on them, as everyone else had, in their own way, told him to shove off.
"I'm good." He stated. "Mako?" He barely smothered a smirk of his own at Chuck's sudden start.
"I ate the same time as you. Did you think Guides needed to eat more often?"
"Nah. Figured it'd be polite to ask, though."
Herc left, Chuck and Max trailing him.
"Can I ask what the slasher-smile was about?" Raleigh queried as he, Cor, Chance and Mako watched the remaining triplet and the Kaidanovskys get dragged into a five-way hand-to-hand match.
"You're new to being around Guides, so you should be fine. But most Sentinels? They don't greet orders from Guides well. Especially not Guides like the Hansens."
"You just don't like them in combat anymore than you like me there." Cor supplied helpfully from where he leaned against the wall.
"It's different with you; you're in the same jaeger as me. It's easier for me to watch out for you."
"That, and while they certainly excel at kicking ass, they're a bit reckless. Not sloppy, not exactly, but..." Cor added.
Mako nodded tightly.
"I was going to ask about that, actually." Raleigh murmured. "How you did it."
"Fought alongside Guides? It's hell. I know, logically, they can hold their own. Instinctually? Whole 'nother ball game."
Cor nodded. "It's...interesting. Seeing a Sentinel's perspective on things."
Mako's nod was considerably less tight. "It is. Things make more...sense, almost."
Raleigh found himself trading techniques for focusing with Chance as Mako and Cor discussed the ways in which the drift enabled them to better understand their co-pilot. While their discussion did have to occasionally move—the Wei Tangs and the Kaidanovskys had no particular fucks to give if they got too close during their match—it was...fun. Strange, but fun.
"Did we essentially tell Herc to fuck off?" Raleigh eventually asked during a lull in the conversation.
"Essentially." Chance responded with a smirk. "An' after what I've heard, I don't blame you. The two drive me nuts to start with—Guides in combat—but after all that carryin' on? An' Miss Mori bein' the one disciplined?" He shook his head. "Lil' shit needs to grow up. Not that my sister was the best either, what with her prank..."
Raleigh gaped. "How..."
"I keep tabs on my sis. She tells me some things. My informant fills in the gaps."
He found himself glaring; he didn't like the sound of that.
Luckily, Sasha chose that moment to interrupt, as the five-way match had come to an end in a draw.
"We shall get cleaned up then re-gather for the second movie, da?"
It took him a moment to recall what she was talking about, then he nodded. 
"Provided Newt has it, anyway." Mako supplied.
-x-x-x-x-
The small cafeteria was re-purposed into a movie theater for that night's dinner. 
Raleigh knew that if had just been him, Mako and Moira, it would never have worked. But with the combined efforts of the three, plus the Wei Tangs, plus the Kaidanovskys, plus whatever the hell Chance/Cor were referred to...well, it got done. With absolutely no argument.
After all the pilots had claimed seats, others filtered in and claimed their own spots. Then whoever was in control of the DVD player started the movie.
Everyone groaned when the previews rolled; no one cared about Eragon, especially considering how badly they had butchered it. Some of the younger ones in the audience—like Chance and Mako—had to get the story of why during the rest of the previews.
-x-x-x-x-
"At least we are still not the villains." Sasha remarked after most of the techs had filtered out. Aleksis snorted.
"How would Russians be the villains in colonial times...?" Chance blinked, confused.
Mako and Cor looked between the two, expressions confused.
Which was when Newt wandered in, followed by Hermann. And how a discussion/debate of history and American movies that lasted well into the night got started.
-x-x-x-x-
A week or so passed, during which movie nights became a thing. All the pilots came—except Chuck and Herc Hansen—and there were always plenty of techs there too. One night, the Marshal entered the room while everyone was still settling in; it had almost gotten to be standing room only.
"Rangers, techs, K-science."
Silence fell, instantly.
"This is not the time, nor the place for movies." Pentecost stated.
Everyone seemed to deflate slightly; the almost-festive atmosphere disappearing rapidly.
"The time is eight o'clock, the place is the cafeteria." He informed them and suppressed a smile when the enthusiasm and anticipation returned. "Dr. Geiszler—"
"Newt!"
"—has agreed to loan his DVDs for movie night. Techs and K-science, dismissed."
The techs, talking animatedly, dispersed; Newt gave the Marshal one last frown before he followed Hermann out.
"Sir, what's—"
"The morale this seems to have instilled is welcome."
The pilots exchanged glances, slight smiles in place.
"The excluding of Striker's pilots is not."
The smiles quickly faded.
"The stronger the bond, the better you fight. I realize that's thought to only apply to your co-pilot, but it also applies for those you fight alongside. I know two of you will defend them, grudgin'ly, because they're Guides, that's not what I want. You all have to be able to work together, as a team—this means no more in-fightin'. If you have problems, take it to the Kwoon. I do not want to hear from medical. Am I clear, Rangers?"
All nodded.
"Dismissed."
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh smothered a yawn as he took the seat next to Mako. Thanks to movie night in the bigger cafeteria, there was plenty of room for everyone. The pilots had set up camp in the middle of the room; the various crews for each jaeger had settled in near their pilots. Everyone else had taken whatever spots were left. 
Sasha and Herc were debating ranged versus melee when it came to fighting the kaiju. Aleksis listened, chiming in every so often. Cheung, Jin and Hu were chatting with Mako; they'd found popcorn somewhere along the line and were sharing with her, at least. Chance and Cor had taken up the spots between Raleigh/Mako and Herc/Chuck, presumably in an attempt to keep things civil.
Raleigh, for his part, had nodded to both in greeting and left it at that. Mako, after a moment, had done the same. That was when the Wei Tangs had corralled her into a conversation, for which Raleigh was thankful.
"So how long have you been trainin', anyway?" Chance prodded. Cor elbowed him; Chance just grinned.
"Pilot-wise or Sentinel-wise?"
"Sentinel. I know you were a pilot before I was able to legally join acad."
"A little under two months."
Both Cor and Chance turned to gape at him. He shrugged, a bit uncomfortable. It had been hard and slow going, the training. And he still kept up with it; Mako and Moira made sure of that, despite how busy both were.
"That's pretty much all I did since I got here about two months ago." He added. 
"With who?" Cor asked; Chance seemed to be trying to recover from the shock still.
"Mako and Moira."
Chance frowned. "I guess that could do it. Working for two months with two Guides would definitely be a solid foundation for training, if nothing else."
"Who's been workin' with what?" Chuck cut in; his manner was less antagonistic than usual.
"A Sentinel's been working with Guides." Cor responded flatly. "So it'd be who with who, not who with what."
The younger Aussie's expression tightened, but he didn't start anything.
"So. Yes. Movie. Which one are we watching?" Chance asked brightly.
Raleigh smothered a smile; it was kinda refreshing to interact with a Sentinel-Guide pair who defied the norms in a way similar to Newt and Dr. Gottlieb. Only with less science and mythology/astronomy involved. 
"I think it's the third Pirates of the Caribbean, but don't quote me on that."
Cor blinked. "The next one after the one we watched last time?"
Chance nodded. "Yeah. ...any chance we could do a re-run of the first at some point?"
"Never seen it?"
Chance nodded. Chuck did as well.
Raleigh resisted the urge to snap that he hadn't been talking to him. "Well, we could ask Newt." He shifted slightly as he sensed, rather than saw, Moira join Mako and the triplets.
Chance poked him. "Don't worry; it's normal even if you aren't bound to 'em. I always know where my sis is, even if we're timezones apart."
He smiled slightly, also glad to have a chance to talk to a Sentinel who seemed to know what was what. Guides—especially Mako and Moira—well, they'd been helpful. But there were some things that they wouldn't know and couldn't be expected to answer.
"Are you two plotting something?"
Mako and Moira jumped, then looked at Cor; their expressions very similar to the Wei Tangs' "innocent" looks.
"Mayhaps. Mayhaps not." Moira replied loftily; Mako was clearly hiding a grin. Cor's eyes narrowed as he considered them.
"Oh great." Chance muttered. "Now the Guides are going to drive us to distraction."
"Gotta problem with Guides?" Chuck snapped before Raleigh could ask what he meant.
"On the whole, no. But if you leave my sister and my bonded alone for two hours, there's havoc. Add in another strong Guide who has Ranger training? I'll be surprised if the Shatterdome is still standing." Chance responded coolly. "That said, why are you talking to us? You made it clear on one of your little interviews that 'Rangers like us' are the reason the jaeger program was defunded."
Cor, Mako and Moira stopped and stared, same as Raleigh. 
"Or." Chance continued. "Were you talking about the other –" Cor quickly put a hand over Chance's mouth, muffling what he'd been about to say.
"Calm down." Cor murmured, forcing his Sentinel to look at him; Chance let out a breath and focused on his Guide, instead of the damned annoying younger one who drove him nuts.
"You okay?" Raleigh asked.
Chance glanced at him, then shook his head. "Y'know, for a Sentinel, you're weird."
He grinned. "I've got these two to thank, I think."
Mako glowered and Moira tossed a candy at him, which caused Chance to laugh and Cor to smirk. Chuck rolled his eyes.
"So. Hansen." He kept his voice light. "Any particular reason you have a bomber jacket with your kills stenciled on?"
Chance and Cor exchanged "wha?" looks; Mako and Moira snickered. 
Chuck turned red but glared at him. "Same reason you did." He returned flatly.
"Because you think you're hot shit and like to strut around and think you're on top of the world?" Raleigh responded, voice dry. 
Chuck turned redder and opened his mouth to snarl a reply.
Raleigh beat him to it. "Because that's why I did it."
The Aussie deflated some as he realized that was also a jab at who Raleigh used to be, not just a remark upon how Chuck was—or at least seemed—now.
"From what I heard, your test went fairly well?" Chance interrupted.
"That would be the second one." Mako supplied.
"The first was closer to Yancy and I's initial test run." Raleigh added with a rueful grin. "Apparently I bring out the worst in my drift partners."
"Drifting in general brings out the worst in people. It is what it is." Cor stated flatly.
Chance blinked and looked to Moira, who shrugged before Cheung poked her for a candy, which she readily handed over. The eldest triplet ignored the scowl on his fellow pilot's face; as did his siblings, who also pestered her for sweets.
"I am going to—"
"Remain calm." Cor cut him off. "We're here to relax and enjoy movie night."
"What're the Pirates of the Caribbean, anyway?" Chuck bit out.
"Wouldn't you—"
Cor covered his Sentinel's mouth again. "That's it, no more talking for you." 
Chance scowled but made no move to resist.
"They're pirates. In the Caribbean. Who do pirate-y things. Like plundering and pillaging and sword fighting. Oh, and there's an evil monkey."
The Aussie looked like he wasn't entirely sure how to react to that statement. Or whether to believe Raleigh.
"S'true." Cor stated.
"Thought you hadn't seen 'em?" Raleigh grumbled.
"Haven't. But that monkey was friends with the dead guy, who probably got killed off for a reason. A.k.a., evil."
Raleigh stared at him as Chuck seemed to be debating edging away.
Cor winked at Raleigh as Chance's face twitched; Raleigh moved back a bit but Chance shook his head slightly.
Chuck opened his mouth to speak again, but the movie started. He closed it and was silent for the rest of the film.
-x-x-x-x-
"...what did I just watch." Cor said as he stared at the blank screen. "What the ever loving fuck did I just watch."
"That had a bit more than you'd expect in a Disney film." Moira commented before she shrugged. 
"Who has the cards?" Raleigh asked, not wanting the night—which had largely been fun, even with Chuck stubbornly trying to butt in—to end.
Mako handed them over; Chance and Cor both pulled out a deck themselves.
"...no. We are not playing war. It is not a thing." Chance grumbled before Cor could even ask.
Raleigh laughed, then smiled when he saw Mako and Moira light up because of it.
"Mind if we join?" Cheung asked; Jin and Hu appeared interested as well.
"Alright." Chance cut in. "Cheung to me, Jin to Cor, Hu to Raleigh. Mako to me, Aleksis to Cor, Sasha to Raleigh." 
There was a pause; Herc raised an eyebrow; Chuck scowled.
Chance glanced at Moira; she shrugged.
"Herc to me, Chuck to Cor, Moira to Raleigh." He added flatly. "An' if anyone starts bein' an ass, they're out. Understood?"
"Sir, yes, sir." Moira responded before anyone could get annoyed.
-x-x-x-x-
Vulcan's pilots joined them later; Raleigh couldn't say when specifically, because he was getting his ass handed to him courtesy of Sasha. 
"Are you some sort of card shark?" He grumbled.
She chuckled, amused; he caught her trading looks with Aleksis.
For a moment, he felt Yancy's absence keenly; that was something they had done quite a bit after they made Ranger. It was a sort of tic, almost; all of them did it, though how often tended to vary between the pairs.
"Ey, no sad times. It's fun time." Moira grumbled as she turned her two over to one of Vulcan's pilots.
"Eloquent!" Chance called; she stuck her tongue out at him.
Raleigh smiled, slightly. Who knew? Perhaps in time he and Mako would pick up that same habit. It wouldn't be the same—it never would, really—but it was something to think on. Something a bit less depressing.
After he went—lost a jack to Sasha, who was smirking in a manner that, if he was being honest, terrified him slightly—he turned his attention to the other games.
Cheung, Chance, Mako, Herc, and the other Vulcan pilot—he really should learn their names, soon—seemed to be doing okay. No one was glowering or angry; if anything, the atmosphere seemed fairly lighthearted.
Jin, Cor, Aleksis and Chuck were a bit of a different story, though. Jin and Aleksis seemed alright but they were more amused than irritated when it came to Chuck in general. Cor, though...he looked like he had half a mind to fling himself across the table and plant his fist in Chuck's face. Chuck kept prodding, kept smirking.
Raleigh sighed, then motioned to Moira.
She grumbled. Then pelted Cor with a candy.
-x-x-x-x-
The next morning dawned way too fucking early, because he actually slept for once. But he'd gone to bed at—as Moira put it—a quarter past fuck-it in the morning, so waking up? Not so much fun.
Chance and Cor appeared at his door; Chance was entirely too chipper, while Cor simply propped himself up against Chance, then went right back to sleep.
Raleigh stared.
The other Sentinel laughed. "He does that, unless we've been called for a drop."
"Ever fallen asleep in breakfast?" He asked, thinking fondly of the number of times Yancy'd managed that.
"More times than I care to mention." Chance replied with a quiet chuckle.
Mako joined them as they walked—well, sleep-walked in Cor's case—to the cafeteria. 
"So you're supposed to shadow us, yeah?" The functional pilot asked.
"Yeah." Raleigh responded as he smothered a yawn, then muffled his snicker when Chance calmly redirected Cor so he didn't walk into a pole.
Mako masked a grin. "Used to this?"
"Daily morning routine, mate." The man supplied with a grin.
-x-x-x-x-
The other pilots trickled in as breakfast wore on.
Raleigh fought the urge to twitch when Chuck took the closest seat to him. Did the little fucker actually think he wanted anything to do with him? After what he'd fucking said? He'd watch his back, when they did whatever the fuck the Marshall had planned, but that didn't require him actually liking the little asshole. Or even getting along. He'd be civil, yeah, because his mama had raised him to be polite—or tried to, anyway. But he was really not in the mood to deal with the abrasive asshole who accused him of sacrificing his brother to the kaiju.
"Woah. Woah. Woah. Too early; the fuck?" Cor muttered blearily as he focused his sleepy gaze on Raleigh.
"Nothing." Raleigh bit out tightly before he cracked his back, then resumed eating. He glanced to the side to find Mako giving Chuck a look that was on par with the kind she'd give a kaiju.
For his part, Hansen didn't seem bothered. He met her gaze calmly, blandly, before he resumed eating.
Mako's eyes narrowed.
Raleigh nudged her with his knee. "Ignore the little shit." He murmured softly.
Chance started laughing, then half choked on his breakfast. Cor, scowling at Raleigh, pounded on his back until he could breathe properly.
"Need I be asking?" Sasha inquired, brow raised.
That just set Chance off again; Cor threw up his hands and muttered darkly as he poked at his breakfast. Mako focused on her food.
Raleigh shrugged. "Depends. Pretty sure you're already aware."
She just smirked; Aleksis shook his head.
Chuck ignored them and tried to start a conversation with one of the triplets.
Aleksis leaned over. "Look, he is not bad kid. Cocky and lets his mouth run away at times, yes. But not bad kid."
Raleigh stiffened; Mako hurriedly sent a wave of soothing at him.
"That little...asshole...said I sacrificed my brother." The blond responded; Cor actually flinched back at the sheer fury pouring off him.
"Y' weren't supposed t' hear that." The Aussie stated flatly.
"So that's supposed to make it better?" Raleigh hissed; Mako actually grabbed him.
"Look. You heard the Marshal, yeah?" Chance interrupted.
Both turned to glower at him.
"Take it to the Kwoon." The other pilot sing-songed, smirking.
Raleigh was more than okay with this. And said so.
"Fine, has-been. Bring it on."
Mako held on stubbornly. "Kwoon, Raleigh. Kwoon."
He nodded jerkily, resisting the urge to go after Chuck here in the middle of the mess hall. Whatever had stopped him before? Was not a problem now.
-x-x-x-x-
"Remember." Mako murmured as he warmed up. "Do not hurt him. Humiliate him if you must, but do not hurt him."
"Definitely humiliate him." Chance muttered. "Kid could use the knockin' down a peg or two."
Cor facepalmed. "This is why you ended up with me, y'know."
"Why? Because you're the only one who could be bothered to keep up with me?" Chance's eyes were gentle as he considered his Guide.
Who smiled, slightly, but looked away.
Raleigh found himself inexplicably jealous. He had two Guides who were good friends, who were training him; one was his copilot. So what if he was unbound?
Mako poked him.
He stared.
She sighed. "Relax. It is normal."
"Yep." Cor nodded.
Chance blinked, looking between the two. "Did I--"
"Yes." His Guide cut in, but his tone was fond.
"Y'gonna flirt all day or y'gonna fight, Becket?" Chuck ground out; his glare was not focused on the blond, but on Mako...and Cor.
Odd. Raleigh thought before he snagged a staff and engaged the little shit.
-x-x-x-x-
He didn't really recall his own words to Mako—it's not a fight, it's a dialog—which might have been why he ended up handing Chuck's ass to him. Admittedly—and he fucking hated to do so—the redhead had put up a decent fight. He knew why the jackass got called "the finest" when it came to those qualified to judge such things.
But all the training in the world couldn't prepare him for a Sentinel who was quite alright with handing his ass to him and landing an even more damaging blow to that ego of his.
"...oh-kay. We don't need to get medical, right?" Chance broke the stunned silence.
"Fuck you." Chuck spat out as he got to his feet; both body and pride were bruised.
"Nope, keep your dick to yourself." Cor responded in a light tone; his eyes, however, held more than a hint of "come anywhere near my Sentinel and they will never fucking find your body".
Mako took a step away from Chance, who was closest to her. Cor glanced to her, then toned down the "I will smile as I remove your entrails" vibe he was emitting.
"We done here?" Chuck bit out.
Raleigh returned his attention to him. "I don't know." He responded. "You gonna take back what you said anytime soon?"
The redhead's jaw clenched. "No."
Mako closed her eyes and took a breath so she would have enough semblance of calm if she needed to stop Raleigh.
"Y'call that a win?" He continued. "I call that pathetic. If y' want me t' take back what I said, you're gonna have to do better'n that."
Raleigh took great care not to snap the staff in his hands. "Same time tomorrow then, Hansen." He hissed.
Chuck smirked. "Don't run off now, Raaahleigh."
Mako, Chance and Cor all had to grab him so he didn't launch himself at the smug little fucker.
-x-x-x-x-
Mako poked disinterestedly at her food.
"You okay?" Raleigh asked; he hadn't stopped apologizing for losing his temper earlier. While no one had ended up getting hurt, it had taken all three to retrain him until he calmed down.
"Please do not be angry." She began, then hesitated.
"Why?" He asked, nonplussed.
"Chuck's not normally like that." Cor cut in as he and Chance joined them.
His Sentinel nodded. "Kid is a lil' shit, no arguments there. But he's not...that bad."
Cor nodded. "He is also not usually quite so incapable of apologizing."
Mako nodded. "I know you are angry. You have every right to be. But...this is..."
"Not normal Hansen behavior." Cor and Chance summed up in stereo.
Raleigh sighed. "Well, whatever I did, I'm not sorry."
"He started it. Unless you do something worth apologizing for, he's the only one need worry about that." Chance stated, his accent sliding to something a bit closer to his sister's. Cor bumped knees with him and offered him a look.
The blond watched them and wished he Yancy was still alive. Or at least that he had found his Guide. It would make being around so many people who were so obviously in tune with the other less of a trial. 
-x-x-x-x-
Their next morning beat-down had a lot less of an audience.
Still didn't stop him from handing Chuck's ass to him again.
"Well?" He asked, one end of his staff resting lightly against the dimple at the base of the Aussie's throat.
For a moment, Chuck projected; Raleigh staggered as a complicated tangle of emotions slammed into him.
By the time he sorted himself out, the redhead had already disappeared.
He guessed that meant it was time for round three tomorrow morning.
-x-x-x-x-
The next week and a half continued the same. He'd show up, hand Hansen his ass, then try to get him to take it back. Hansen would project, he'd stumble, Hansen would escape.
By the end of the twelfth match, Raleigh wasn't angry anymore. He was just...tired. Resigned.
He knew by now—he'd asked, Mako had confirmed—that Chuck's projection wasn't intentional. It was a response to his question.
And the fact that it elicited such a response meant that the redhead was most likely panicking.
He sighed quietly. Now that he'd had a chance to work his frustrations out, he was a lot less easily baited in general, let alone by Chuck. Who'd taken to snarking at him, though he never once mentioned Yancy again.
"What the fuck is his problem?" He asked Mako, Cor, Chance and Moira—who'd finally gotten a spare moment between jaeger repairs and was thus able to join them—over lunch the one day.
"Eh?" Moira mumbled; her head rested on her arm, which was on the table. She seemed to be more likely to scald herself with her soup than eat it.
"Chuck." Raleigh growled.
"Oh. Him. Still pullin' pigtails?" She asked, then yawned.
"What." Chance snapped.
"S'all I could think of. Y'lot said he wasnae normally this much o' an arse. So he's doin' it coz he wants Rahleigh's 'tention."
"You are punch-drunk." Cor informed her.
"Nae." She grumbled. "Makes sense."
"And how do you figure that?" Mako asked, significantly less hostile than the other two.
Her response was a quiet snore.
Raleigh frowned. "Would that make more sense, given what you three know of him?"
"...well." Chance muttered. "He is awkward enough to do that. But I can't figure why he'd be desperate enough for your 'tention' to do it." 
Mako and Cor nodded.
"She's never gonna live this down, is she?" Cor asked.
Chance smiled. "Nope~!"
-x-x-x-x-
The next session ended the way all prior had: Raleigh and Chuck sparred, eventually Chuck got worn out, Raleigh did not, Raleigh triumphed, Chuck had yet another intimate encounter with the mat. 
Only this time Herc was watching.
And Chuck? Was as red as his hair when he noticed.
Raleigh rolled his eyes. "You're a Guide, Hansen. You're good—really good—but you aren't a match for me."
Herc glared.
Chuck's venomous response was, "Mori beat you; had you flat on your back."
Raleigh had honestly thought he was calmer, he was able to deal with the asshole Aussie.
Raleigh was wrong.
His expression went from calm to glacial. "Mako doesn't try to rely on brute strength when faced with someone stronger than her. Mako is not a stubborn asshole who won't admit they're beaten and have been for a week and a half now. Mako is also the only Guide, aside from Cor, who I'd agree is combat-worthy as a Sentinel."
The younger redhead looked like Raleigh had just told him Max was dead.
Raleigh frowned but lost the chance to reply when Chuck got up and literally ran out. When he glanced at where Herc was, all he got was a look that said the older man was not only disgusted but disappointed before he, too, turned and left; apparently so disgusted he didn't even want to waste words on him, even if they were insults.
"Fuck you both too." Raleigh growled to the empty room before he put both staves back.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh sat stiffly at the lunch table; Mako let him stew. Cor took one look at him and sat on the other side of Chance. Moira sighed and motioned the Kaidanovskys and the triplets over.
"Hansen still being a little shit?" Cheung asked as the five claimed seats.
"You have no idea." The blond retorted flatly, though he was much calmer than he had been earlier. And he was also feeling guilty, if only the slightest bit. Hansen had been a complete and utter ass the entire time he'd been here, the entire time he'd known the Aussie. Exempting the small handful of times he'd tried to make conversation after he'd said outright that Raleigh had sacrificed his fucking brother. No apology, no acknowledgment beyond "you weren't supposed to hear that". So he'd resolved to ignore the little fucker. And then he'd started shit again. So why the fuck should he feel guilty and be unable to get the look on his face before he ran off out of his head?
"So. Idea." Chance cut in abruptly.
"So. Tell us." Moira and Cor chorused, then smirked and dodged the straw wrappers flung in their direction.
"To practice. Why not have a team spar? Mako and Raleigh versus Cor and me. And while we do that, you five can have  a match. Then we can switch off; give us practice against opponents who aren't Sentinel or Guide."
Raleigh paused, then nodded. "Sounds better than the daily morning beat down."
Aleksis frowned. "Hansen still has not apologized?"
"He refuses to. And looks surprised when I hand him his ass. As usual." At the looks that prompted, Raleigh scowled. "Look, I get you all seem to think he's actually a decent person. And I'm sorry but I'm not agreeing. Actually, I'm not sorry. He's been nothing but an ass, hasn't apologized for it and continues to be one."
"He's not—"
"Not normally like that. Yeah. With you guys, maybe. With me? I'm dog shit on his shoe."
"I'm not sayin' what he's doin' is right. But you also ignored the fuck outta him 'til he started bein' a lil shit again." Moira supplied.
"And that means what, exactly?" Raleigh growled.
"He wants your 'tentions!" Chance interrupted and snickered, then yelped when Moira swatted his hand with her spoon. "Ow!"
"Essentially...yeah, that."
"Perhaps he is taking a liking to you?" Sasha offered.
"Ooooor not." Cor cut in at the absolute horror on Raleigh's face. "We don't know him that well; we could be wrong. We probably are wrong."
Hu watched Chuck scuttle out of the room after hearing Sasha's comment. "I am thinking not."
Raleigh just groaned and resisted the urge to slam his head down on the table.
-x-x-x-x-
It was in the middle of the planned series of matches that the kaiju alarm blared. The pilots all put their staves down and raced to suit up.
Raleigh glanced at Chuck, who was pale, jaw set as he let the divesuit techs do their job.
"Be careful, Hansen." He stated before leaving the room, not wanting to see whatever expression that would provoke.
"There's two of 'em this time, guys. Codenames: Otachi and Leatherback." Tendo supplied over the comms as Mako joined him.
"Striker, stay back; do not engage unless absolutely necessary. Cherno, you're two miles beyond the Miracle Mile. Crimson, with them. Gipsy and Echo, remain between the enemy and Striker. Vulcan, you're on point. Do not let them reach the city." Pentecost ordered as the helicopters flew the jaegers to the drop area.
-x-x-x-x-
At first, the fight went well. Leatherback was easily held back by the combined force of Cherno and Crimson; Otachi had yet to surface, though they knew it was lurking.
The tide turned when Otachi popped out of the water to spray acid on Crimson, who lost the use of one of its arms from the attack. Echo didn't hesitate to join the battle and lured Otachi away from Crimson while the triplets got their bearings; they almost went out of sync. 
Back at LOCCENT, Tendo swore; Hu's vitals were all over the place, even though it was Cheung's arm that had been taken out.
Cherno was unable to assist Echo, who could do little more than dodge the constant sprays of acid, unable to even strike back. Vulcan's pilots hesitated; they, Gipsy and Striker were the only ones that stood directly between the city and the kaiju. If they moved, that would leave Gipsy and Striker as the only ones still where they were commanded to be; it would also mean that Striker had that higher of a chance to be involved in combat. 
Raleigh and Mako wavered until Leatherback's spiked tail plunged into Cherno's back. Both knew that another ten feet to the right and the kaiju would have most likely speared one of the pilots. They joined the fray, slamming a fist into the monster's face and causing it to go slightly off balance.
Leatherback roared and released a burst of what appeared to be electricity.
"An EMP?" Mako hissed, horrified; Striker, Crimson, Echo and Vulcan were now dead in the water; all the comms were down. 
"There!" Raleigh growled and both targeted it, ripped it straight off the kaiju. Cherno took over, then pointed them towards Otachi.
They turned in time to see Echo sink beneath the waves; horrified, but without time to acknowledge it, Mako and Raleigh forced themselves to chase after Otachi, who was making a beeline for Striker. 
They managed to get the acid-spraying menace away from Striker, but it headed for the city instead. They paused for a moment to pick up some shipping crates before they continued to chase the fucker.
One almost-acid spray, five shipping containers, a flight both pilots could have done without, and a sword-slice later, Otachi was down. Unfortunately, so were quite a few buildings now. Both ignored them and headed back out to make sure Leatherback was down; they returned to find Cherno fishing an unharmed Echo out of the sea. Otachi had apparently decided it to be no threat and simply knocked it over, no acid involved.
That was when the comms came back on; one of the pilots was screaming.
"Hu." Mako murmured, shocked.
Raleigh paused, then directed them toward Crimson. "Sentinel?"
"Sentinel." Mako confirmed as both disengaged and made for Crimson's conn pod.
-x-x-x-x-
An extremely drawn and pale Hu lay on the bed in the infirmary; Mako sat on the bed with him, a steady, soothing, grounding presence. 
"Congrats." Raleigh muttered wryly from his own infirmary bed.
Cheung and Jin turned, eyes blazing; Mako winced.
"You're the second Sentinel to come online during a fight." The blond continued.
"The second?" Hu rasped and accepted the water Mako offered him.
"Raleigh was the first." His Guide informed him as she put the water back on the side table.
Jin and Cheung deflated, blanching; they'd felt the sheer agony of Hu's suddenly-enhanced senses as though it was their own. The idea that they'd feel that, only coupled with the fact that their brother had just been ripped from the conn pod before their very eyes...
Hu shuddered and reached for Mako, who pulled him into a physical and empathic embrace.
Raleigh had to look away. As glad as he was for Mako—despite how things had happened—the sight only made him yearn for his own Guide all the more. Movement caused him to look up; Cor and Chance had plopped on the foot of his bed; they held up cards.
"What say we let the lady and her Sentinel bond for a bit?" Cor suggested, raising an eyebrow at the two non-Sentinel triplets.
They paused, looked to Hu, then nodded reluctantly. They closed the curtain around their brother's bed and joined the other three on Raleigh's bed; the Kaidanovskys joined them moments later, dragging another two beds with them so all could sit comfortably.
Cor plopped himself between Chance and Raleigh, who was grateful but shot a questioning look at Chance.
"S'fine." The other Sentinel murmured. "I know you don't wanna run off with my Guide."
He cracked a small smile and nodded slightly before they started a game of crazy eights. The original plan had been to play Egyptian War, but that had been vetoed by both Sentinels, neither of whom was sure they were in complete control of their strength at the moment.
After several moments of gameplay, both Hansens joined them; Raleigh stiffened and the rest of the group shifted closer, slightly.
"If you two are here to unwind, join us. If you're gonna start any more shit, get the fuck out." Chance stated flatly.
"It is early enough. We can re-deal." Aleksis supplied as he considered the two Aussie rangers.
Vulcan's crew had ended up with pretty bad electrical burns due to a patch of faulty wiring in their jaeger. All told, they were down two jaegers, as Hu would be in no fit state to pilot; both Vulcan and its pilots were too badly damaged to even think about sending back in the field. Thankfully, the others had only sustained minor injuries, although Gipsy's techs were going spare over some of the damage done.
The Hansens were no exception to that; Herc had a cut over his eyebrow that had needed stitches, while Chuck had a few small first degree burns that had been treated easily.
Herc took a seat between Aleksis and Jin; Chuck stood for another few beats, then took the spot between Raleigh and Cheung. The blond restrained himself from glaring, barely, and re-dealt the cards; Cor helpfully supplied another pack of cards, as crazy eights with nine people would not work well with just one deck.
"What is it with you Rowans and card decks, anyway?" Raleigh grumbled.
Chance grinned. "Mum an' da used to take us on long car trips. We got used to carrying cards around all the time because you never knew when they'd suddenly be like 'we're goin' to look at the autumn leaves, lets go kids'!"
Cor glowered. "His last name is Johnson. Not Rowan."
"I'm a Rowan, as you well know. I just swapped my middle and last names so grandda wouldn't keep having a fit about mum changing her name when she married." Chance retorted as Raleigh dealt.
Cor's glower only intensified as he considered his Sentinel.
Chuck was strangely silent and continued to be so; he was also a bit closer to Raleigh than was comfortable for the blond, who was resisting the urge to scoot closer to Cor. The only reasons he hadn't already done so were because he didn't want to risk setting Chance off and because Cor looked like he had half a mind to shove Chance off the bed just for being so calm and relaxed. Raleigh had no desire to get that anger directed at him, no thank you. 
So he held still and dealt with it, though he all but lashed out when Chuck's knee brushed against his.
-x-x-x-x-
"I am sorry." Hu said to Mako.
"Nothing to be sorry for." She returned. "You're my Sentinel, you have just come online...the idea of me being away from you must be unsettling."
He nodded slightly, his hold on her tightening a fraction. She soothed him, but remained relaxed in his arms, directing a small smile up at him. Hu nuzzled her, then jerked back, stuttering an apology.
"Relax." Mako murmured. "It is normal, for Sentinels to show their Guides affection this way. Many do not in public, but in private?"
The newly come online Sentinel nodded, then focused when his Guide slowly walked him through dialing down his senses again.
"We cannot bond." He managed out thickly.
"What?"
"Not until this is over. I can't..." Hu took a shaky breath. "I can't pilot. Not like this." He shivered. "If we bonded and you went out in Gipsy..."
Mako hugged him and rested her forehead against his. "What will you do?"
"Be sedated."
She winced but gave a small nod. They had little other option at this point.
-x-x-x-x-
"Rangers." 
The nine on the three beds playing cards looked up from their game; it had begun almost three days ago, paused only for bathroom breaks, sleep, clothing-changes and showers. All nine had been commanded to remain in medical, as the med techs were still wary of the EMP having effects that might not become apparent until later.
"Operation Pitfall is a go; the repairs are finished."
The card game was abandoned readily enough; eight of them left, though Chuck glanced back at Raleigh for the briefest of moments.
The blond gave him a nod of acknowledgment; Chuck nodded back before he followed his father.
The Marshal raised an eyebrow, but was spared the chance to ask when Mako appeared from behind the curtain that concealed Hu's bed. The nurses had slipped in and sedated him, as they had been warned prior to the Marshal's arrival.
She nodded to her sensei, then walked with Raleigh to the divesuit room; in step, in sync. They would finish this. Together.
-x-x-x-x-
Tendo told them what Newt and Hermann had done over the comms as they suited up.
Raleigh felt the respect he had for the two rise; he wasn't sure he would have had the guts to drift with a kaiju once, let alone twice. The information Newt had managed to gather made their job simpler and harder, all at once.
All the pilots were headed to their jaegers when the alarm went off.
"The two that came out, they're Cat IVs. But they're just sitting there, circling the breach." Tendo informed them. "Codenames are Scunner and Raiju."
The Marshal entered LOCCENT. "Cherno and Gipsy in the front; Echo behind them. Striker, stick close but let them guard you. Do not engage unless absolutely necessary."
"Sir." All acknowledged over the comms. 
-x-x-x-x-
Newt and Hermann, who had just rushed into LOCCENT, hurriedly flagged the Marshal over. Rapidly, in stereo, they explained that the bomb wouldn't be enough. They'd need to detonate at least three of the jaegers alongside it to force the breach closed.
Pentecost scowled, but nodded and reclaimed the microphone to inform the pilots.
-x-x-x-x-
Fun. Raleigh thought flatly as he and Mako guided Gipsy along, right beside Cherno.
We all need to enter the portal, then. Mako supplied with what sounded like a mental sigh.
Which lowers the chance we'll all return alive. Raleigh responded sourly. There were four Guides out here, counting Mako; while he'd meant what he said, about thinking both Mako and Cor were combat-worthy, even though they were Guides...the idea of losing them was no easier than the idea of losing the Hansens. Even if both of them were assholes.
We will do this. She stated.
We will. And everyone's coming home this time too.
His own fierce determination to end this with all alive was echoed back at him.
The fight with Raiju and Scunner was strangely anticlimactic, after the fight with Otachi and Leatherback. Raiju was aggressive and dangerous, whereas Scunner just seemed content to flit around and pop out at them, but not attack. It was unnerving but not particularly troublesome; more like a game of hide and seek with a dangerous creature that had not gotten the 'dangerous' part of the memo.
As Cherno and Gipsy closed in on Raiju, Scunner popped out at Striker; Chuck's startled yelp drew the attention of both Chance and Raleigh, which gave Raiju the opening it needed to rip the arm Raleigh controlled off.
He swore as pain raced from the circuits to his flesh, then helped Mako turn and stab the fucker; Cherno broke its neck as they sliced it open. 
One down. Mako supplied as they turned to try to find Scunner.
"Activity in the breach! Another one's coming, brace yourselves!" Tendo called across the comms.
Fuck. Raleigh and Mako both dodged, just in time. 
The new kaiju's claws were right where their conn pod had just been. 
"What category is that one?" Chance asked as he and Cor managed to get a hold of Scunner; the creature didn't appreciate the headlock much.
"Cat V!" Tendo responded. "It's a big bitch!"
The Marshal cleared his throat. "Codename: Slattern."
"Still a derogatory term." Chance muttered flatly as he and Cor continued to grapple with Scunner.
"You are having idea, Becket boy?"
"Aside from empty the clip?" Raleigh responded as he and Mako did just that. The newly dubbed Slattern's roar of pain echoed.
"I think you just made it angry." Cor called; Striker had helped them to put an end to Scunner.
-x-x-x-x-
The head Guide looked up from his files as Moira brought some more in. "Ah, yes. That troubling flare up of Ranger Becket's..." He sifted through papers on his desk. "Here you are."
"Thank you, sir." 
He smiled, then waved her on.
She left, reading the article as she walked back towards in the infirmary; she was the Guide who was supposed to take over for the one who was helping keep Hu calm. Sedatives were good but tended to work better in conjunction with a Guide's soothing presence, even if it was not the Guide a Sentinel wanted.
As she made her way through the article, she paused. Stopped. Reread a few paragraphs. Then continued walking, swearing in every language she knew. As she neared the infirmary, she forced herself to calm down; took a deep, slow breath.
Well, nothing for it now. I just have to hope they both come back so this can be sorted out properly. In the mean time...at least I can do something for Hu.
-x-x-x-x-
Slattern was fast; faster than even Scunner had been. It was also just as aggressive, if not moreso, than Raiju had been. The two combined were an unholy combination that was proving difficult for the four jaegers to get close to, let alone land a hit on.
Raleigh smothered a snarl of frustration and turned, as did Mako; the two managed to catch the side of the kaiju's face with their blade.
Cor or Chance whooped, then lunged in with both their blades—similar to Striker's sting blades—out; they managed to cripple one of its arms before they were sent flying. Then again, one of the plusses of fighting underwater was an easier recovery; the drag of the water on the jaeger meant they didn't fly as far and were better able to control how they landed.
The Hansens, frustrated, launched some of their anti-kaiju missiles at Slattern; two hit, the rest went wide. Cherno had been positioned just right so that when Slattern moved to dodge the missiles, it swam right into their waiting fists. The kaiju turned to flee only to impale itself on Gipsy's sword; Echo rejoined the battle, hacking away at Slattern's three tails.
The kaiju managed to untangle itself and flee closer to the breach; it was missing two tails and one of its arms; the entire left side of its face was a blue-bloody mess. It snarled defiantly at them; Gipsy and Echo re-engaged; it tried to flee again and ran straight into Cherno, as the pilots had planned.
Half dead, the kaiju managed to stumble away from its confrontation with Cherno only to walk right into the path of more AKMs from Striker. The beast collapsed, unmoving; Echo switched out one of their blades for their plasma cannon and emptied the clip into it, just to make sure.
"Striker and Gipsy to Slattern; Echo, get Scunner. Cherno, stay here. Do not engage." Pentecost commanded.
All obeyed; Cherno stood at the edge while the others jumped into the breach, dragging the kaiju corpses with them.
-x-x-x-x-
The Hansens' pods were the first to emerge from the breach, quickly followed by Cor and Chance's. Mako's was a moment behind them.
Where is Becket boy? Sasha wondered.
Aleksis reminded her that there was still a kaiju left.
"Cherno, what are you—"
Cherno and its pilots vanished into the breach, along with Raiju's corpse.
-x-x-x-x-
"What? What's going on?!" Chance yelled over the comms as all of the pilots extracted themselves from their pods.
"Cherno's gone into the breach after Raleigh." Tendo responded sharply.
"What?" Cor managed out as Mako and Chuck froze; Herc just swore.
Cherno chose that moment to surface, smoking; in its arms was a battered escape pod.
Chuck flung himself into the water and towards it; Mako followed not a moment later.
Thankfully, by the time the two had pried the pod open, the helicopters had arrived and the field medics with them.
Cherno was picked up by a handful of the helis; the rest began to scoop the pilots from the water, though all insisted Raleigh be the first to go. Chuck went with him, glaring at Mako when she tried to join.
Chance and Cor exchanged glances, then, as one, looked at Herc, who gave them a bland look. Mako scowled at the older Ranger; it was a look that promised there would be an explanation sometime later.
-x-x-x-x-
"So what happened?" Chance asked.
All the pilots, save Raleigh, had been treated and given a clean bill of health. They were still expected to remain in medical for the next two or three days, however.
"They began to detonate after we grabbed his escape pod. It had been caught by a kaiju. Not a fully formed one, but..." Sasha trailed off. 
Aleksis took over. "We were keeping it close, to try to protect it. Our shielding is strongest against nuclear; has to be, with Mark I. We barely made it through before it collapsed."
"Which is why he's still alive." Cor summed up. Chance shivered and joined him on his bed; Cor readily accepted the physical reassurance from his Sentinel.
"Either way." Jin murmured from where he sat, with Cheung asleep on his shoulder. "Is over."
Silence reigned after that; none were too sure what to say, let alone how to react. Most had been fighting for so long...or had grown up with the war. What were pilots supposed to do now that there was peace?
"Hi guys!" Slurred Newt as he was helped in by Hermann.
"Christ." Chance groaned before he wobbled out of bed to help the Guide with his Sentinel. Cor, muttering darkly, followed.
A doctor quickly took over from there; Hermann hovered, unsure, before the other two coaxed him into joining them until he was permitted to rejoin his Sentinel.
"You alright?" Cor asked.
"I am fine; it is Newt who bore the brunt of it." Hermann murmured softly. His eyes darkened. "He should not have done it. Not alone."
"Dr. Gottlieb." Chance said. "It's not...it's not that he doesn't respect you. Or think you capable. It's a Sentinel thing."
The scientist glowered. "Newt—"
"Does not normally behave like a Sentinel. At all. That's true. But he still is one. Still has the same instincts, the same motives...the same drive to protect his Guide that all other Sentinels have. It's not a matter of respect. It's a matter of protection." Cor added. "Do you honestly think if there had been another way Chance would have been alright with me out there in Echo?"
Hermann looked to Chance. 
"I know damned well what he's capable of. He regularly hands me my ass in the Kwoon." Chance murmured, eyes bleak. "But that doesn't mean I'm okay with it, with him out there in danger. It's just...something I had to deal with."
"Perhaps we should try a card game, da?" Sasha suggested.
Jin nodded, so the others clustered around him, though they kept it down in deference to Cheung being asleep. Still, the card game gave them something neutral, something normal to focus on. And that was what they all needed right now.
-x-x-x-x-
It was still hours before Mako had been able to return to Hu's side; he greeted her with a small but worn smile.
"Problem next door?" He asked softly.
She nodded before she crawled onto the bed with him and he finally relaxed for the first time since she had left his side. His Guide was here; she was safe; she was alive. They all were.
Mako relaxed as well, basking in the warm-content-safe feelings coming from her Sentinel.
Hu smiled sleepily at her; the sedatives were still not completely out of his system.
"Sleeping would not be a bad thing?"
"Not at all." She replied softly and cuddled closer; Hu nuzzled her before he was out again. Moments later, she followed him to dreamland. The two were warm and safe, sitting in a grassy field on a sunny, cloudless day. Silence lingered for a moment before the two started to talk.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh felt something warm and heavy on his chest; whatever it was, it was breathing on his neck and holding him in place. He was going to assume it was a person, based on the arms, but...his last memory was of his pod being snagged by a partially formed kaiju. He wasn't really in a hurry to open his eyes to find he was in a lab, about to be dissected.
Comfort, coupled with exasperation and amusement, skittered across his awareness. He recognized those emotions; recognized who was broadcasting them.
Blue eyes opened.
He was in the med wing; Chuck fucking Hansen was using him as a pillow. He was pretty sore, all told, but the Aussie was not putting any sort of pressure on any of the sore spots; was in fact twisted around so he was not on any of them.
"You two can't do anythin' halfway, can ya?"
His gaze traveled from the slumbering, bruised Chuck to a wan Moira, who was sitting in a chair by the side of the two beds that had been pushed together to accommodate him and his cling-on.
"What do you...?" He croaked softly, then slowly sipped from the water she offered.
She ignored the question, walked him through dialing down his senses. He did so without argument, but balked when she asked him to use his sense of smell.
"Remember your flare up?"
He nodded.
"Good."
He glared but reluctantly turned his mental dial "up"...and was suddenly surrounded by the same scent from before, the one that made him think of home and warmth and family and safety. He knew, without asking, that the source of the scent was Chuck.
His mouth was dry, despite the water he'd just drank. "It's him." He managed out through his shock. "My Guide. He's my Guide."
She nodded. "He...when Cherno brought you up, he beat Mako to you. To your pod. Wouldn't leave your side, even in the chopper. He had to be sedated so the doctors could get at you."
Raleigh looked down at him; exhaustion was in every line of the younger man's form.
"Everyone else?"
"Fine. You were the worst banged up out of everyone, save Vulcan's pilots. Mako's with Hu, though she did help us get Chuck sedated. Herc is most likely off terrorizing someone. Or being informed he's now officially the second-in-command. Dunno which. The Kaidanovskys, my brother, Cor, Dr. Gottlieb and Jin were, at last check, playing cards. Cheung's asleep. Newt's getting checked out by the techs, still."
"Did..." He broke off, unsure if he wanted to ask. He wanted to know. He did. But, after everything...if they'd failed...
"No no no no." Moira murmured rapidly. "Calm down or you'll wake him. We're fine, we survived, bad guys vaporized."
He relaxed, a quiet sigh of relief escaping him. The world was saved, it was over. And he'd found his Guide, even if they were a pissy, prickly Australian with daddy and possibly abandonment issues.
She smiled slightly. "You should probably rest some more." She rose to leave, then paused. "One thing, though."
"Mmm?"
"Try to make it work with him, yeah? I know you two don't get on. And it's not my place. But..." She paused, sighing softly. "My Sentinel is dead. Has been for a while. As anyone like me'd be able to tell you: it's...difficult. You have your shot; you have your Guide. Don't throw either away."
Shock paralyzed him; before he could respond, she was gone.
And she'd left him with more than what the fuck he'd do with himself now to contemplate.
-x-x-x-x-
        Notes:
          -Sasha calling him "Vanya".His name is Chance Johnson. In Russian, the equivalent of John is Ivan. And the diminutive of Ivan is Vanya.-No clue if Eragon preview is on Pirates: Dead Man's Chest.Don't really care, either. Because I saw that it came out in 2006 and could not resist, because I hate that effing movie with a passion.-As someone pointed out in this post:Yancy and Raleigh. In bomber jackets. With their kill-count stenciled on.Hm. Looks a bit familiar, aye?-Slattern. Ah yes.The theatre was fun. I was like "uh...*stares blankly at screen* DID THEY JUST CALL THE KAIJU A WHORE?!"Slattern is essentially an olde tyme word for whore. So yeah there's that.-Since writing is...writing-y...I shall post the Chuck Hansen Club Theme Song.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (28)
  Comments
          Sacha_Hjart, Newtalot, Whoisincontrol, TiredEntity, taishainu, LightningBond515, ShiaLaBeefyPeen, Marangeljade, Follychone, Sorran, its_like_looking_in_3d, DystopiaEm, athenethegoddess02, Qweaenr, ragestine, kty92, wearethewitches, LadyZee, Justanother_Fandomslave, Epidenic, marmaladeOwl, tobydoglover5, Selles, gamesprite, Shewolf1990, ChaoticLlama, Isa_von_Schwanbach, secret_writer_secret_musician, Suki_Enogawa, mayflower27g, titaniaeli, amako, peupeugunn, aHostileRainbow, chibi_zoe, Momokai, notaredshirt, f_j_l, HopeEmblem, ArianaMoon, Enan, Farisya, Rainrayvn, Hails0001, everblockedwriter, heartninja, Pixy_revenge, Daughter_of_Gaia, mudder3300, Missthingsandstuff, 
               and 184 more users
            sweetypea16, poisonedbymako, PaisleyPenguin, jstar, ZeroMonster, hridi1533, ikki9117akarose, AlicAlrres, redhuntress26, remramrom_33, wittylittleknitter, martinharis325, clyhos, Dema, mercuryfire_6471, captainthatship, Komorebi_reads, tunnelOFdawn, liandrin, sparrowhawk17, absconditus, empty_shoebox, Deylicious, DarkShadeless, Cimila, PotatoesandCoffee, Hima_Hime, ladychild, dammitbilinski, Lizardbut, SnowyAshCat, kyuluna, Athlum, JesterCard, giggles805, Raider_of_the_Lost_Book, waterbendingmiko, Delilah_Noir, remi_wolf, seraphina_snape, AliceIsWandering92, KarenMitchell, morellafuriosa, machiattobitch, rowergirl_08, moonlightress, DDBB19, ailes_de_cire, Itoshii_chan, Over_the_Love204, micahsleopard, megara_s, Knyghtshade, SeaWyvern, KiraKyuu, Plumptie, NexusAstor, Sorcerer_of_the_Flame, cupcakegremlin, Novagirl04, nazgullover, sapine, Helldog, emmafoxtrot, SilverWolfQueen, fathertizime, Ibby, yamikitsune, Fuente, Kalistar, Pheneline, Wanderer_Brown_Sheep, gomory, tygercub, SirienCleresta, I_said_therefore, Jazz_s_shadow, bralexiel, BlackRose16, frickle_frackle, Elf_Queen, Runkari, InvisibleSpork, tosca, PinkFeline, Soteira, kitish, JamieBenn, Volitina, CookieMonstAri, madnessneverhowls, Secret_H, ndmzero, astrakage, Simarillion, strifechaos, RavensShadow, thelobstermobster, el_gilliath, Chaerring, vlbuehle, Dark_Dreamer, Onnoff, Reasonablyirrational, shinigami_lupin, Silverheart97, saltwaterandwoodsmoke, Shaenlyn, libbybird22, Nocturnal_Fox, Towelrack, Duskborn, averyintelligentdog, phirephox666, Alucra, Jaybirdie, Lostariel, neomateo, mylilponyofDOOM, daeguhobbit, ashtreeowl, tsukiryuu, AdieraFire, Cougars_catnip, kingkirkwall, katefish617, Latinlyaahen, livingv, nsyncat, heyk, beastlyrose, kasumixkira, hiddencait, batrox, artimusdin, Minique, miints, Em5, Lia_Lenore, kdst10002, pinch_trap, anruiukimi, windeetree, SighingWinter, d_lueth, Dany_Darling, daemoninwhite, amusewithaview, Saeraphyna, twelve_pastels, fearlesssisters, Aranwion, adeegeeak, LittleWhiteDragonlet, Nikariot, XingPanda, Joveesia, Opheliad, Wyndewalker, surgicalstainless, mythtakenforastory, Ishyko, Darkanimefox, ninjaofthe9seas, Madeline_Katsuragi, SaintYsabel, annabelle_edmund, inthedrift, homebody_20, thegodmachine, fadedink, SublimeDiscordance, keldeska, KateRobin, Maliex, Rui2, Jiri, taiyo_no_drake, VarnishedThoughts, Oneshot_Yaoi_Shipper, Bondlock, alexiel_rain, Aniana and Draya
             as well as 
          193 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
