      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
        Hide Creator's Style
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               Underage
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationships:
               Bakugou Katsuki/DabiBakugou Katsuki/Todoroki Shouto
              Characters:
               Dabi (My Hero Academia)Todoroki TouyaBakugou KatsukiTodoroki Shouto
              Additional Tags:
               Alternate Universe - No Quirks (My Hero Academia)Alternate Universe - Supernatural ElementsDabi is a TodorokiDabi is a Dork (My Hero Academia)Bottom Bakugou KatsukiPower Bottom Bakugou KatsukiTodoroki Shouto is Bad at FeelingsDabi and Todoroki Shouto Are SiblingsVampire Dabi (My Hero Academia)Vampire Todoroki ShoutoWerewolf Bakugou KatsukiWerewolf MatesGrowing Up
        Language:
        English
        Collections:
        Bakubae is my bae
    Stats:
      Published:2019-11-28Updated:2020-09-02Words:11861Chapters:4/?Comments:62Kudos:281Bookmarks:48Hits:3248
    #workskin .indent{padding:0 5em 0 5em}#workskin .book{margin:0 auto;text-indent:3em}#workskin .dropcap{font-family:Georgia,serif;font-size:3em}#workskin .flashback{font-style:italic}#workskin .caps{font-variant:small-caps}#workskin .spoiler{background:#333;color:#333}#workskin .border{border:1px solid}#workskin .font-serif{font-family:Cambria,Constantia,Palatino,Georgia,serif}#workskin .font-sansserif{font-family:'Lucida Grande',Verdana,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif}#workskin .font-monospace{font-family:consolas,courier,monospace}#workskin .font-big{font-size:120%}#workskin .font-small{font-size:80%}#workskin .align-right{text-align:right}#workskin .align-center{text-align:center}#workskin .align-justify{text-align:justify}#workskin hr.third{width:33%;margin:auto}#workskin hr.full{width:auto;margin:auto}#workskin .font-red{color:red}#workskin .font-orange{color:#ffa500}#workskin .font-yellow{color:#ff0}#workskin .font-green{color:green}#workskin .font-blue{color:#00f}#workskin .font-purple{color:purple}#workskin .font-white{color:#fff}#workskin .font-black{color:#000}#workskin .font-pink{color:#ffc0cb}#workskin .font-teal{color:#008282}#workskin .font-redbrown{color:#a15000}#workskin .font-cherryred{color:#e00707}#workskin .font-brickred{color:#a10000}#workskin .font-dimorange{color:#f2a400}#workskin .font-murkyyellow{color:#a1a100}#workskin .font-jade{color:#4ac925}#workskin .font-dimgreen{color:#008141}#workskin .font-leafgreen{color:#1f9400}#workskin .font-darkolive{color:#416600}#workskin .font-dimblue{color:#005682}#workskin .font-midblue{color:#0715cd}#workskin .font-mediumskyblue{color:#00d5f2}#workskin .font-darknavy{color:#000056}#workskin .font-lightpurple{color:#f141ef}#workskin .font-midviolet{color:#b536da}#workskin .font-verydarkpurple{color:#2b0057}#workskin .font-darkplum{color:#6a006a}#workskin .font-darkmaroon{color:#77003c}#workskin .font-reallydarkgray{color:#626262}  
      Are we really meant to be?
      Avidegesa
          Summary:
              Dabi life hasn't changed much after meeting some stupid werewolf-brat. Or so he would like to believe until kid had grown up to be the fiercest creature Dabi even got to know in his long life; beautiful despite his filthy mouth and somehow bounded to his precious little brother, so willingly or not he had to keep an eye on the both of them (in the process falling quite terribly).
      Chapter 1: Everything has to start somewhere
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Sometimes, all it takes is one angry bratThere was a kid in front of him, so he had to blink a few times just to make sure he was not imagining things. Nope, blond stray was definitely still there, glaring at him with his big crimson eyes like he really wanted something but wouldn’t ask for it, because it was your goddamn job to figure it out. And Dabi didn’t even know who this cocky brat was. But he was an adult. In fact, a pretty reliable one, so he was going to handle this like an adult would - with patience.He planned to crunch down to make the kid feel more comfortable since he may have been lost or something, when this little shit started to growl at him, stopping him halfway through. Touya belonged to Todoroki's line - an ascent race of creatures of the night and had nearly five hundred years of experience to brag about. Still, less than a foot away some brat decided it was a good idea to bare teeth at him, pretending to be oh-so-very dangerous. So, it was not like Dabi really had thought about what he was about to do, when he decided to reply with the exact same gesture.Pair of pearly fangs flashed from his now partly opened mouth, plainly assuring that (in contrary to other’s quite normal one) they were here for much more than just showing off. Even if it was literally what he was doing right now. With evident satisfaction watching as the kid had chosen to withdraw, unable to stop a corner of his lip from lifting up into pure mockery.You just won against a toddler, Dabi thought before he could stop himself, so damn mature.And okay, there was a little truth in how shameful his action truly was. Especially if it was going to make the kid cry because Dabi totally forgot that was basically all they did - cried over nothing and made adults feel wrong about themselves. And truth be told, Dabi was not really the best person to handle that kind of situation. So, when the blonde (to his utter surprise) chose to limit himself to just waving at him to get closer, looking more intrigued than offended, let’s face it, he didn’t process it right ahead.After a moment of hesitation (and sudden realization that he's strangely aware of a child) he obediently leaned over, so they ended up on the same eyes level. His own face dangerously close to brat's one, so he could easily observe all the range of emotions hidden behind that cold stare. Still not mastered enough to hide anything from him. Not that he honestly tried to as Dabi got to find out.Small hand casually rested on his cheek like it belonged here, and he almost snorted because it's bloody hard to stand how serious this kid looked."You're cool."Simple, almost impassive statement and Dabi had totally lost it, bursting into laughter. It took him only a couple of seconds to calm down but kiddo looked like he was absolutely regretting everything so raven instantly caught him by the wrist, squeezing just a bit too hard to help him understand that there was no way Dabi would let him escape that easy."And you're just a kid. In fact - pretty stupid one. You know I can smell your, right?" There was a moment of silence between them and Dabi knew he may have taken it a bit too far but naive kids won't survive in this world. Playing a big bad vampire for the sake of a good lesson? He’s in. "Kitten.""I'm a werewolf, sucker."With pretty rich vocabulary for a brat, Dabi thought amused, but before he even got a chance to share his opinion, there were small arms all over his neck and his mouth felt agape before he even realized what was happening."You smell nice... Just like Sho."It hit him hard. Easily sinking deeper and deeper inside him, reaching straight for his soul to squeeze it painfully. He was pretty used to the pain (after all with a father of his, with time he got kinda immune to most physical acts). Still, that seemed to be a lot worse than anything he had experienced before. It hurted so badly; both physically and mentally. In the same way it did when his youngest brother was born. Dabi felt empty, with the cold spreading across his body, like a poison corrupting him all. It was hard to deny all this hatred, hidden well enough for nobody to suspect a thing. Yet, he knew. Dabi knew just how much he despited Shouto - his own blood - simply because he had appeared in Dabi’s life, in the process pushing him further and further into darkness, where he could finally let it all go.Even now with this strange pup, he couldn’t get rid of this consuming feeling. Like no matter what, Shouto would always find a way to remind him that he was still there, better than him in every possible aspect, already having things Dabi would never get a chance to possess."So you know my little brother, huh?""He follows me around."Before he got to change his mind, Dabi decided to hug the little body back, easily lifting the boy up. There was no resistance, and he was almost sure that brat simply felt asleep without giving a single fuck about anything he had told him before. Naive and stupid. Like it was totally okay that their kinds weren't really that fond of each other, and a major part of his own (don't let yourself be fooled, vampires were always looking for a fight) would happily tear him apart. Or did just all kids these days willingly throw themselves into strangers arms (or maybe it was just Dabi and some kind of charm he should immediately get rid of)? No self-preservation instinct. Lord would better protect him before Satan catched on and shit got serious.There was a whisper near his neck which he would probably miss out if not for his super hearing." ...and he's kinda my friend."And then he regreted everything, thank you very much stupid gens. It was silly, it was childish and it made him detest himself deeply but it was not like he could really do anything about it."You don't have anyone better to hang out with?"Dabi was not a good person; not to mention a good brother. Truth be told, he was quite awful, pretty used to turning everyone down. For now Sho, in his childish trust and admiration, might have not seen this, but sooner or later, he would figure it out on his own. With Dabi more than happy to help, starting with getting rid of (probably) one of the few friends his little brother succeeded to own."He's gonna hurt you badly, first chance he gets."He was completely serious, warning him more because of the kindness of a heart than the fact he cared about what was going to happen to him. Still, brat got the balls to snicker at him, not taking any of his words seriously, so Dabi chose to give him another lesson."Besides, who you think you are to him, little wolf? I would dare to bet, nothing more than a growing up blood bank. Obviously he would not choose you over anyone of his own kind."After all he was an heir of their family's bullshit. The only and last hope of their parents after they have written Dabi off. His explosive temper was hard to deny for long, with his outbursts taking place more and more frequently. He attracted troubles, with no time becoming pretty much addicted to any kind of dramas. Especially the obscene one, not-so-secretly loving the way it always made Enji boiled.In the larger picture Natsuo and Fuyumi didn't matter either. Not because like him, they were rotten to the core. Even he had to admit, in this damn world, they were pretty much of saints. Which seemed to piss their father even more than Dabi’s own character. Enji always liked to call them weak and good for nothing. Too pathetic to even dream of standing side by side with the ancient origin of Todoroki's family. Like deep down he expected them to turn cruel and vicious if he had only pushed them hard enough, turning their lives into living nightmares.Another thing distinguishing them from Shouto. He could have been their parents favorite, getting everything served to him at the silver plate, still, Dabi would not care much. He would simply let it pass, minding his own business like he was always supposed to do. Yet, the thing he just could not stand was the fact, how stupid and naive his brother turned to be. And Dabi really envied him this privilege; an opportunity to grow up in his own time, without anyone pushing him to mature faster than he was ready to. He could enjoy his life freely, even under the alerted eye of their father, never experiencing any harsh restrictions or prohibitions. Like Enji had finally learned something from his previous mistakes, deciding that maybe a change of approach would serve him better.Deep into thoughts, Dabi kinda missed the moment when blond decided that he had more than enough of his bullshit. What did he not miss, was the strange ache of his shoulder, which shocked him to the extent of simply losing his embrace, unconsciously letting the brat go. Kinda in awe watching as he landed on the ground with almost abnormal grace, visibly furious about something.Well, if someone gets to be mad it certainly would be Dabi, considering the fact that brat dared to fucking bite him!He was being (most certainly) childish, yet, he wanted nothing more but to scream straight at the kid's face that he was going to skin him with his bare hands."Don't talk about him like that, you stupid old fart!"Not like he really got a chance, as blond beat him to it, without a mercy throwing at him some random insults. And Dabi felt kinda wounded. Besides, he really started to like him."Old?" he stammered weakly while shuddering theatrically. He definitely was not that old! "Look who's talking, brat!""You're so awful! If you hurt Sho, I'm not gonna forgive you." It was hard not to laugh, when he had to keep looking down to see his angry face. "Duh, I'm gonna kick your sorry ass!"Okay, and it was something he couldn't really deal with, so like the biggest jerk (he kinda happened to be) he simply bursted out laughing. For the first time in his not-so-short life, entirely honest, bending in half when it turned out to be a little too much for him. It hurted in the best possible way, making him totally unmoved by the kid’s loud and clear protest, or even desperate demand (more like plead) for him to finally shut up!When Dabi tried to collect himself, kid used the opportunity to quickly withdraw, disappearing almost as suddenly as he appeared. Leaving him with nearly the strangest feeling of an utter calm. Like in this short, meaningless moment he had simply forgotten himself, leaving behind worries accompanying him for years now.Who would have guessed that one day he was going to regret this meeting by the deepest of his heart, not really able to manage everything that happened next.
        Notes:
          Yeah, it's more of a prologue than the proper chapter. The next one will be much longer (I promise) since I want everything to develop kinda naturally. Can't wait ♥
      Chapter 2: Ho-ho-ho, how they grow!
        Notes:
          EDIT: I corrected it a bit just now so you all could enjoy it more!(still had to rewrite the whole thing, but not today my friends, not today)Kinda late, but Merry Christmas everyone!~You are truly the best and I can't really express how much all of your comments and supports mean to me ♥You keep me going and not allow to simply give up as fast as I can't really write anything satisfying, so really guys, you are gold, and I fricking adore every each of you!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Sometimes, you had to decide, who you really care about 
  Brats' age: 7,5 years old
"Fight me!"There is a body glued to his back and Dabi's too damn tired to at least pretend that he cares. Not when a similar thing happen to him quite regular, as some stupid brat got to believe Dabi's there to humor him. As a mighty, immortal creature, he has to strongly disagree. Even if Katsuki is not having any of this, with (almost) admirable resistance trying to prove him otherwise."Come on, don't be such a booore."Kid is not playing around, in a heart beat jumping at him, to just hang there, with both legs and hands wrapped all around his waist. What did Dabi even do to deserve this? Probably a lot; yet still, nothing really involving this little shit, so it was completely unacceptable for heaven to sent somebody at him. Especially if this "somebody" wore himself as a proud seven (and a HALF) years old, acting like they were equal and he had any right to treat him that way.Sighing martyrly, without a single warning Dabi starts to rotate, fling sideways like a possessed man. With unimaginable speed spinning around, waiting for a kid to finally give up and leave him the hell alone. Not even slightly expecting that instead of begging for a mercy, he's going to experience a wave of laughter, only assuring him in an assumption that Katsuki was indeed damn mad. Like totally and utterly insane, cling to people with all his might only for an amusement, almost like he was looking for something within them.Satisfaction maybe, his mind implied, but he instantly set that aside. Katsuki was too young to think about complicate things. He could be a smartass, but it still haven't changed the fact he was just a child, and like all the children, he was being mostly plain and simple-minded. In interaction with Dabi searching for most likely entertainment. Which Dabi surely provided to him, given that the mentioned whipster stuck by his side like someone has glued him to Dabi. Maybe because he was still too naive to realise he was not good for him, or pretty much anyone in that matter. That he was broken and wretched, unworthy Katsuki's attention or kindness...Irrelevant at the moment - now, he had a single task in mind, staying entirely focused on a minor figure onto his back, trying to figure a way to bring Katsuki down, when something hooked up to his leg, in the process almost knocking him off his feet. Stopping abruptly, with full disbelief he glanced down at Shouto, embracing his calf with his tiny hands, with every passing moment looking even more hesitated than before. Yet, he didn't let go, showing some weird for his normal self obstinacy."I want to play too."Dabi might be a shitty person but let's be honest, even he had to admit that since Katsuki showed up for the first time, his relationship with Shouto surprisingly improved. Not greatly (there still were things Dabi could not stand) but noticeable, and it was more than enough for him. After all, Sho was just another little brat trying to live to his parents' expectation. And Dabi knew about it better than others, trying not to be such a disappointment for a good part of his immortality, until he figured out he would never made Enji proud. So yeah, he understood and might even take it into consideration to act more brother-like. Not condescendingly or harsh all the time like he used to, believing having such a perfect sibling made him obligated to act like a dick.Besides, Sho was jealous as fuck and Dabi couldn't help being petty and totally loving it."Fine, whatever," he exhales, as both brats continue to hold onto him, waiting for more fun to come and damn, when did he become so soft on them?  
  Brats' age: 11 years old
It's autumn already, but things like changes of seasons don't mean much for those who don't count time. The ones that have lived for a way too long, in the meantime forgetting what the amusement felt like. Without something able to surprise them, they would became bored and gloomy. What Dabi kinda constantly was, but luckily, he had found a certain someone always eager to amuse him. What was good... even if lately Dabi wanted nothing more but to get rid of him. Hopefully forever.Why time had to pass so quickly, was a wonder. Before Dabi knew it, kids started to grown up, from a brats turning into even a bigger ones - damn teenagers. Nuisance to all parents and a personal headache to Dabi, as for god know what reason, he was forced to spend with them most of his free time.Shouto hasn't changed much, staying pretty much the same. Quiet and well-behaved, far too distant to the mere human feelings, never letting anyone too close to himself. Not because he didn't want them around - he just sucked at interacting with people. What always ended up with him coming to Dabi, whining and self-pitying, desperate enough to seek comfort in his older brother. Because after all, he still was a kid, only a few years older than before.Today it was like that too. They were laying on the couch, Sho at Dabi's very side like a cuddler he probably was, while he played with his stupid two toned hair, running through it with his fingers. Just like he knew the brat like, comforting him after another tough day in the middle school. Recently, he had learn that kids these days were quite awful to each other, especially in the mentioned educational establishment. Not particularly to Shouto (with his pretty face and Katsuki by his side for all the time, no one really dared to mess with him. Good for them, because otherwise Dabi would personally tear apart anyone brave enough to hurt his dearest little brother.) but to some of his other classmates. Which made Shouto mad as his deeply sensitive soul couldn't stand such an awful injustice, especially as he has realised, he cannot put an end to it no matter how hard he tried.It was a savage world, but at least Dabi didn't have to help kid understand how cruel reality truly could be. Why you ask? Fool creature, he already mentioned Bakugou. And if there were anyone able to utterly destroy every single idea or dream you had, it would most certainly be him. Not because he was such a horrible person; Katsuki was just too straightforward and honest for most people liking. Wimps, too weak to handle how unique Katsuki turns out to be (and in what Dabi supported him by all his heart, too damn happy to observe as with time Katsuki has sharpened his tongue even more)."Should I leave you two alone?"Speaking of the devil. After all the time he spent in Todoroki's mansion as a kid, it would not be such a big misunderstanding to say he practically lives here. What allowed him to invade their shared space whenever he felt like it, without an announcement or something (as Bakugou liked to say) as bothersome as a permission. What often resulted in a situation similar to the current one - Katsuki welcoming them both from a door frame in quite specific manners, with a wry face pointing out how incesting they used to act, even if the truth was he didn't give a flying fuck about that at all."You can always join us," Dabi snorts before Shouto decided to get up, almost instantly joining a little wolf by the door. Letting Dabi watch as in respond Katsuki's (no longer hidden from the public) tail waived happily. "Or not. Have fun doing whatever you kids are after. Don't let anyone kidnap you and if after all, they did succeed, don't bother me for a rescue - I'm rather busy.""You suck at this, you know?" Bakugou states with a stupid grin on his face Dabi doesn't like even a little. "Caring, I mean."Dabi definitely knew it, but it's not like he's going to openly admit it. Especially with some stupid brat grinning at him with an evidence of something dangerously similar to the intimacy (affection, tenderness, whatever you call it) in his eyes, making him shiver in response, because he could sense a danger in it. An unknown kind of opponent, and there was just no possibility he would lose against it.  
  Brats' age: 12 years old
It was quiet. Too noiseless for a couple of stupid kids and Dabi's supernatural hearing able to catch pretty much everything within the reach of the mansion and its garden. It was nothing like usual commotion those two made everywhere they went. Because Sho might be relatively taciturn, but Katsuki... god, Katsuki wouldn't simply shut up. No matter of the circumstances, always a few octaves too high, torturing his kind' oversensitive ears. It was a torture, really, but Dabi still used to listen to them, doing so mostly unconsciously when he drifted away in thoughts. He paid no mind to hidden behind the words meaning, simply liking the tonnes of their voices mixing together, usually efficiently lulling him to sleep.Why today turned out to be different? It was too peaceful. It made him anxious. Not because he had no faith in kids in general, but because he knows those damn brats. They wouldn't act like that if something haven't happened or if they weren't plotting something - whatever it was, Dabi would find out.They were supposed to be somewhere in the garden, as always playing some stupid games. He may be just overreacting, stressing out over nothing while the kids were safe and sound, but something in his guts told him that's not the case, and he couldn't possibly ignore that. Especially as it made him run in some random direction, before he has heard something that made his blood freezes and dash to the tree house he and Natsuo have built there a centuries ago.In a flash climbing up the ladder, Dabi finds out he is most certainly not damn ready for what he has to witness here. With his (cute) little brother atop Katsuki, fangs deep into his long, slender neck, painting heavily as bloodlust takes over him so he's ready to... well, no. Let put it that way: When a vampires bite someone, they provide their prey with a toxin that made them quite... eager and greedy. For the same thing immortal lust for when blood starts to flow in their veins, arousing them beyond humans' understanding. For most of time, it's a perfect arrangement for both sides - predator gets his food, while a quarry gets an unique chance to fuck one, not only inhumanly beautiful, but also that had a chance to master his "craft" over the years.What for sure has not applied to twelve years old Todoroki Shouto!One plead look from Bakugou's half-lidded eyes, with his lips forming into mute begging for help and Dabi couldn't really control himself before he dash forward, at once wrestling Sho away. They never had a serious fight or even an argument, so he's not really sure what to expect of this. Most certainly not that Shouto dares to attack him. Quickly ending up with his pretty face pressed to the cold wood, as Dabi deal with him smoothly, without a rush waiting for the effects of feeding to worn out. Almost breaking kid's jaw, as little punk starts to hiss at him, totally out of control. And he kinda lost it too, despite all the sympathy he had for a brat, briefly wondering if Shouto couldn't just choke on the damn blood and perish.After a while body under him goes stiff so when he's one hundred percent sure that Sho gets his right mind back, he finally let him go. Only to watch as all of sudden he starts to tremble, muttering something Dabi couldn't quite make out. Besides, it's not like he really cared, at the moment focused only on the other boy. Slowly bleeding out on the damn floor (and Dabi suddenly realizes that he probably fairly responsible for that, because he might kinda caused it while ripping Sho from him so abruptly).He reached for Katsuki squatting nearly, despise visible objections from a boy' side taking him into his arms the very same moment Sho starts to get up to probably try and approach them. Being one big babbling mess, not really useful to anyone right now. Especially when he comes up with nothing more but an excuse of how sorry he was; that he didn't mean to. Probably telling the sincere truth, not only deserving, but definitely needing a support from his big brother, same he always got while approaching him, desperate for that tinny thread of understanding they formed between each other over the years. A safe place. Something Dabi supposed to give him unquestionably, as a person in his youth going through exactly the same thing.Yet, with Katsuki's fragile body in arms and a blood soaking his white T-shirt, he had a bit of a problem with getting his priorities straight."Get out," Dabi roars, before he even knows what he's doing, shocking both of them to the same extent. Almost instantly, he could sense a resistance in his brother's posture and that settle it. "Get out, Sho," he repeats calmer this time, measuring him with a hard gaze."Touya..." Sho cries weakly in protest, begging with his eyes. For what? Probably a lot of things, still, none of them really concerned Dabi. Even if Sho called him by his given name..."Get out or I won't be able to help him." If he really wanted him to listen, he had to be cruel. He had to hurt him even more, striking for his remorse. "He will bleed out because of you. Is that what you want, Shouto?" Dabi could almost see as something in the him breaks, so he decided to end it up with one final blow "Go find our parents. They will help you." in the process somehow forgetting to mention that everything will be fine or that it was really not Sho fault. Neglecting his own blood, his family, to help a stray, in some term, even a stranger.It takes a while before Sho eventually obeys and leaves, without sparring them a single stare, hopelessly trying to deny everything that has just happened. Finally allowing Dabi to panic a little, as he hasn't had to no longer worry about preservation of appearances. And he has to admit, situation is damn serious.First, he has to stop the bleeding. For this purpose he bits his own finger to cut it open, before he brings it straight to Katsuki's wound, touching it gently. Watching as it start to scab instantly, healing in an almost magical pace. Because their blood was kinda magical, able to cure most of the physical injuries.Then, he has to make sure that the brat won't pass out on him. Mainly because it's a nuance and his heart race is dangerously low, so Dabi prefers not to risk anything."How are you feeling, kitten?" It's a dump thing to ask, yet there is nothing that he would like to know more."Sleepy," Kat murmurs absently and raven has to shake him a little to bring him back before he falls asleep. "Stop it. I said stop it, dammit!" he yells, turning around into his arm, so they are face to face now. Painting heavily as he lean over to place his head at Dabi's chest. "I'm so tired..."Some unknown to him smell fills the air, and it's hard to resist the urge to breath deeply as it tickles his nostril. It's sweet, yet somehow bitter like it didn't have enough time to mature. Suppressing lovely aroma of (much likely?) caramel, trying to overwhelm his senses and success partially as he gets to catch in a situation with visible delay.Bakugou was in heat. Shit.It was definitely too soon for him to experience stuff like that, and Dabi could easily assume, that Shouto was the one who triggered it. Stupid brat too immature to play with things he did not understand, bringing consequences not only to himself but to Katsuki as well. Making his body respond fully to something he was mentally not ready to have, still way ahead of a proper puberty."Brat like you recover quickly so don't worry, you're going to be okay."And he just lied to him, so he won't freak out just like Dabi was. Because he kinda starts to reacting to the smaller body call, not slightly immune to his pheromones (still not even fully developed, and already affecting him in this degree? They gonna have a problem in the future.), with his fangs starting to show out involuntary.There is no other way but to push kid away, before under the influence of instinct he does something rather stupid, improving him with another life trauma. Or so he though, before totally unaware of the situation Katsuki, decide to test Dabi's self-control. Bringing himself to hug him firmly, in the result completely disappearing into his embrace. Too proud to admit that even he can't be strong for all the time, yet evidently needing to simply let it go, even if just for a moment.Dabi simply allows him, drawing him even closer to return the gesture, with his face hidden into blond's hair accidentally nudging one of his fluffy ears with his nose, bringing out of him a noise he would prefer not to hear ever again from any twelve year old.Heat, he reminds himself, as he awkwardly clear his throat, instantly determine to stop this before it gets any further. Getting up only to pull Katsuki with himself, noting that he is way too weak to stand on his own. Given that Dabi was really not having time for this, wanting nothing more than to deliver kid home safely so he could finally be over with it and rest. The fastest option? Pick him up.And he does exactly that, in accompaniment of screaming and cursing raising Katsuki off his feet, only to flip him over his shoulder, so he would sag there like a bag of potatoes, swearing even more fiercely. In a half-way to the destination of their little trip eventually going silence, probably starting to feel dizzy."Are you still there? Do you want me to carry you bridal style or something, kitten?""Fuck off." Dabi can't help but gasp, because language! "And stop shaking me so much!" Katsuki demands, waving his hand angrily, so he accidentally gets to hit him. Right in the ass, what he tries to hide, gibbering madly. "You suck. And your brother suck too. You all suck, bloodsuckers."Quite literally, and he is kinda impressed that Bakugou can get over everything that happened so quickly."You would love me to suck you off," Dabi toss lightly for a moment forgetting himself, only to be meet with silence. Meaningful one, helping him understand that it was probably too vivid for kid's pure soul. "Forget it, I'm not really into brats."For the rest of their way, once again, they march in silence, Dabi weirdly awkward, while Katsuki determine to sulks for some reason. Stubborn to the extent of not telling raven when he starts to feel hot again, in the result having quite a big problem with breathing. About what he find out just when he step at Bakugou family's patio, to discover that kid become kinda purple.So he shakes him furiously, just as someone decides to open a front door for them. Finding them here, both covered in blood; Katsuki half-consciously, right in the middle of his heat with Dabi's hands brushing his thin shoulders with something almost insane in his suddenly dark eyes.When Dabi looks up, he's welcomed with a wide smile of Mitsuki Bakugou. Based on the brats' stories, Dabi wouldn't likely believe how terrible she really was. Still, in a very flesh, she kinda made him feel a bit out of place, right before she chose to kick his ass, not really waiting for any kind of explanation about why her precious son ended up in a such condition. And Dabi simply let her do as she pleased, because damn, she really was scary, and he was already too damn tired to deal with all this bullshits.
        Notes:
          Closing question:How bloody it would turn out to be, if after all, someone dares to kidnap those two brats?
      Chapter 3: So you're my problem now?
          Summary:
            Enji was, and still certainly is, a dick.Shouto's sad.Dabi's dealing with everything just fine.
        Notes:
          There're 86 people subscribing this fic, so for those of you who read this - I know it took me way too long to update - I'M TRULY AND TERRIBLY SORRY ABOUT THAT, guys.I understand that this chapter may not be very rewarding after all the waiting, but I wanted to keep it short, so it doesn't feel too rushed, so hope you still can enjoy it somehow (〃＾▽＾〃)Have fun~!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Sometimes, you just have to take care of everything.
  "Do you fear me, my dear excuse-of-a-son?" Enji has asked him once, face blank and eyes dead. Without any indication of a tenderness parents usually had for their precious children. "Am I terrifying you to the extent you’re shaking like a toddler while forced to face me, little bird? Is that how pathetic you turned out to be despite all the effort I have put in you?"
  There’s no place for the weak in this world.
  Be strong Touya.
  You have to be strong.
  It’s easy to break one with so many weaknesses.
  You don’t want me to break you, do you?
  "Are you trying to make me angry, T-O-U-Y-A? Is that why you look at me with such pitiful eyes?"
  Why are you always whining?
  Face me like a man would.
  Don’t avert your gaze.
  So weak.
  A failure.
  Another disappointment.
  Useless. Disposable
  "What with your face, boy? That disgusting little scowl you put on - want me to wipe it off so badly?"
  I knew it from the very beginning. You’re nothing but a lost case.
  What a shame you can’t fit in properly.
  You’re broken, Touya.
  You disgust me.
  "Say hello to your little brother, lamb." There was a toddler in Enji’s broad shoulder, laughing happily like he had nothing to do with Dabi’s life falling apart. Was he really that innocent or unconsciously found a great joy into others’ misery already? "He’s everything you never was and would never be despite your mother’s sincerest hopes. Someone truly worthwhile." Was it fondness he heard in Enji’s voice? Who’d have thought even a monster may be affected by something? A toothless brat no less. "You’re a poison Touya, slowly contaminating those around you with your sickness. We don’t want that anywhere near Shouto. Am I making myself clear?"
  Please remember which one of the two of you is after all easier to replace.
  Brats' age: still 12 years old
Run.“Touya.”Not fast enough. Never fast enough to escape Enji and his piercing gaze.“I have called after you. My dearest, oh-so-pathetic son, have you suddenly go deaf?”If it only was the case. He would give everything for a possibility to never hear a word coming from that spiteful mouth again.“Of course not, my father dearest,” Dabi snorted, unable to restrain himself. “To what do I owe this dubious pleasure? Have you missed our father-son time that much? I’m deeply moved.”“Get Shouto out of his room,” Enji ordered, indifferent.Being outrightly ignored was an unexpected change of pace and it felt wrong for multiple reasons. Mostly because Dabi held nothing but a resentment for his sire. He could play-pretend, acting more or less civil into his presence, but definitely won’t let him push himself around like he had no other choice but to obey to his demands. He was no longer terrified nor a child. Exerting pressure or trying to intimidate him wouldn’t work in Enji's favor anymore, and if the man himself had forgotten he was supposed to play nice to get anything out of Dabi, they have reached rather an obvious impasse.“Get him out yourself,” Dabi snorted, somehow amused. “Oh wait, you can’t, can you? You can’t do shit because Sho’s fucking hate you, just like we-”To Dabi getting a rise out of his bad-tempered parent was like a child’s play. No wonder it ended up as a top position on his ‘Petty Glee List’ providing him with a fair share of joy whenever Enji felt forced to approach him. He would not do it unless it was out of pure desperation and to Dabi that acknowledgement itself served as enough of a reminder of why should he never make anything any easier for him.Even if it meant he would be shoved to the damn wall whenever he dared to talk back because apparently Enji wasn’t a fan of a healthy discussion, far more accustomed to using his fists instead.“Watch your mouth son,” Enji warned in a low growl, clenching a hand in a fabric of his poor shirt. “How can those who mean nothing refuse to acknowledge their place so stubbornly? You’re principally only a waste of space and fresh blood, yet you act so mighty and arrogant simply because you have deceived your little brother.” His words dripped with resentment and Dabi couldn’t help but wonder if Enji’s spit had turned into a venom already. “But better be aware - the boy’s affection won’t last long and believe me when I say that when it does finally falter we’re going to get rid of you for good.”How many times has he heard that already? Shouto’s attachment and dependence on Dabi? - evidently all his bloody fault, because he just couldn’t help himself when they pleaded with him to stay away. Oh, how has he used their poor, sweet boy and will continue to do so until he ruins him completely. Like it was frankly so unbelievable for him to never seek out any of that.“Be gracious you’re still allowed to be here and make yourself useful for once. Get. Shouto. Out. I have some big plans for him.” 
  ~*~
‘Plans’ his ass. If it was about what he thought it was, and oh, it definitely was because Enji was fucking nuts, Shouto was a mere step away from becoming quite messed up. It was not an exaggeration - nothing truly was when the Todoroki family was concerned. Ruining yours children as a part of a long-standing tradition? Why not! For both Dabi and Natsuo learning how to feed properly looked pretty much the same - first time consisting of Enji slitting someone’s throat open as if he had done it often enough to not even blink twice. There was no passion in it, yet Dabi couldn’t help but equate it to painting; with one steady move from the left to the right Enji created his own unique art, colouring everything ahead of himself in a beautiful ruby.Looking at Dabi's younger-self with something strikingly similar to pride.Dabi was only ten when his time came. He was an…. odd kid, so after all it didn’t affect him much. Natsuo was a bit older, fourteen at best, but far more decent than Dabi ever was or would be, so the whole thing shocked him to the very core, in the end leaving him catatonic for over a week. Fuyumi… well, she ended up under the care of their mother. Not like Rei was any better than Enji, almost throwing at her sixteen years old daughter somebody’s arm, because apparently he squirmed too much for her liking.Mr. and Mrs. Todoroki were simply too old to care for something so overrated as subtlety. Cultivating everything that made humans fear and hate vampires in the first place. 
  ~*~
Dabi wasn’t a very tactful person either, with short “It’s me,” barging into Shouto’s bedchambers like he owned the place. Brat didn’t need people tiptoeing around him like he was going to break the very same moment they’d tried to directly address what happened - no, Sho might have looked like a doll (with his ridiculously long eyelashes, soft facial features and porcelain skin) but would not be treated like one, silently putting up with other people’s bullshit. At least not when Dabi’s still there.“Sulking for days must be exhausting,” Dabi said, eying the pile of several blankets (sure, he couldn’t see Shouto while he buried himself under all of them, yet it wasn’t really that hard to figured out he was there, so let’s face it, it was rather a poor hideout) with clear disapproval. “Are you planning on staying there forever, blatantly ignoring me or, I don’t know, finally getting out, so we could talk?”Sitting down on the edge of the bed he gave Shouto a moment to make a right decision. If it turned out to be the wrong one, he would probably throw himself over stupid brat to leave him with no choice but to fight for a dear breath under these covers. Figuratively speaking, because after all they didn’t breathe at all, so it would be more about pointless struggling and pointing out how hopeless Dabi honestly was while dealing with other ‘human’ beings and their emotions.Fortunately Shouto decided to spare them that, moving a bit to peek at his brother.“I’m not ignoring you. And I’m definitely not sulking,” Sho pouted.
  Cute brat.
“Oh my, you’re sulking SO BAD!” Dabi snickered, with an arm fishing Shouto out from his hiding place to finally face him properly. “Wow. You look like shit.”He was good at the whole ‘opening up thing’ if the look at Shouto’s face was anything to go by. At first, he seemed completely caught off guard, bewildered and distracted from his great suffering. Then, it all came back - sadness, guilt, anxiety, regrets and far more, making the smaller boy’s shoulder heavy with its weight - and he simply let it showed, trusting Dabi in his most vulnerable state.“What if he hates me now?” He asked quietly, and Dabi didn’t even need to confirm who was he precisely talking about. “What if he finds me disgusting? After all that happened… What if we cannot be friends anymore?” Sho sniffled, stubborn to not let those tears fall down. “He wasn’t there in days. Has he already abandoned me?”It was impossible to say for sure, but something told Dabi Bakugou wasn’t even genuinely angry about the whole thing. From what he saw while carrying the boy home, Bakugou was more shocked and confused than anything. And even if it was all due to the blood loss and an obvious daze it put him in, he didn’t appear to be particularly sickened by their race or Shouto himself. At least not by then, acting as fiery as always.The matter of Bakugou’s absence was a bit… awkward to say at best. Dabi didn’t feel like being the one to explain to his little brother what werewolves’ Heat was and in what condition they ended up because of it. He was just a kid for god's sake! But at the same time, allowing him to believe the other boy was avoiding him because he hated him now... would be just cruel.“Bakugou won’t come for probably a few more days,” Dabi began slowly. “Not because he hates you, stupid. He’s just… busy with his Heat.” It was to be expected, yet it truly terrified Dabi when Shouto appeared to be opening his mouth to ask some questions, so he quieted him down with a raise of a hand. “All you need to know is that he’s not available at the moment - it’s a werewolves’ issue, so don’t bother yourself with it too much. When he is done with it, I’m damn sure he’s not going to avoid you. No… If you have truly made Bakugou mad you’re gonna get your ass kicked, so better get ready, princess.”All of sudden, Shouto popped up a mere centimetres away from his face, invading his personal space like he had no fear in life. He probably didn’t, clutching his arms around Dabi in a tight hug. Giving him no real chance to brace himself for all of this, utterly unbothered that he may have just lost all his dignity because of it, squeaking in pure surprise.
Ew, affection.
“You’re the best brother, Touya.”No shit. It’s not like it was even a true competition with Natsuo being a sore loser. Dabi was an obvious choice there.“Don't get all emotional on me, brat." 
It took two more days for Bakugou to finally show up, storming into the house like he was on his way to kill somebody and Dabi instinctively tucked Shouto closer to himself.“Mom bought me a collar because of you,” Katsuki growled, pointing an accusing finger at Shouto. “Fucking unfair, isn’t it?” Kinda true given that he was the victim there. Thankfully it didn’t seem like he held any kind of grudge, or at least not a genuine one and it made Dabi calm down a bit. They’re good. “You’re lucky it does look so cool or I’d be damn mad at you right now.”Which meant he wasn’t. Interesting. His tall rapidly wiggling from the side to side gave Dabi the wrong impression, confusing him at first before he figured out it just showed how nervous Bakugou was. Not angry, but uncertain and self-conscious. Probably wanting nothing more but to be over with the whole thing already.
  Another cute brat.
Not that Shouto understood what was asked of him, rushing forward the very same moment he recovered from shock. Making Bakugou frown in confusion before jumping him, in the process almost knocking both of them off their feet.“I’m so terribly sorry, Bakugou!”Even as a kid Shouto wasn’t really an emotional type, so his sudden outburst must have convinced Bakugou he wasn’t just messing around. Which probably saved him several teeth (they’d eventually grow back but that’s not the point), because no matter how forward or psychical with others Bakugou tended to be, it didn’t work the other way around.
  Same as for Dabi, people's affection disgusted him
or so he liked to claim. Dabi could have believed that much, noting just how stiff he was while returning the hug, patting Shouto’s back awkwardly. 
  ~*~
On the second thought - Dabi didn't fucking believe him. Not while he lay on the grass in their backyard totally blissed out, with Shouto petting his fluffy ears like it was no big deal at all. Disgusted his ass - he could have sworn he heard a purr escaping Bakugou’s mouth.“You’re glaring,” Shouto noticed giving him an odd look. “If you also want to play, you have to ask Bakugou first,” he added mischievously. 
  It was the first of many upcoming times when Dabi had to deal with the mentioned phrase coming out from Shouto’s mouth. It might have been only playful back then, yet he already genuinely hated it, blissfully unaware how far worse it’s going to get in the future.
        Notes:
          (1)  Fuyumi and Natsuo moved out ages ago, but Dabi decided to stay simply because he likes to bicker with Enji.(2)  In the end Dabi got to play with Bakugou's fluffy ears even if he didn't ask for it.(3)  Shouto's growing up to be a smart-ass.(4)  Dabi calls Shouto a "princess" and Bakugou a "little wolf" or "kitten" (while being petty) - it's canon, change my mind. What's Coming Next:  -&gt;  Dabi takes Shouto to his first hunt;  Bakugou feels neglected;  Dabi hosts a party and some little wolf appears without an invitation -&gt;  ❤︎
      Chapter 4: Blood was spilled and it wiped them clean.
          Summary:
            Shouto learns how to feed.Dabi hosts a party and some little wolf appears without an invitation.Bakugou's just cheeky.
        Notes:
          Something in this chapter doesn't sit right with me but I'll be out for some time starting tomorrow, so I wanted to at least add something before then ~ still, hope you enjoy guys~! 💕(also, I've totally lost against Tenses, I'm so sorry about that ;__;)
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Sometimes, they devour you slowly.It was peaceful and it made Dabi anxious. Not because he used to seek out conflicts - beg you pardon, he was a very calm person - but simply because it was strange, and he had lived long enough to take notice. Bakugou wasn’t the one to avoid confrontation, yet for some reason he had acted like the recent accident didn’t happen at all. What itself was odd, but understandable if assuming he was being traumatized by it. Poor kid… but not exactly, given that he had burst into laughter as soon as Dabi found in himself enough sympathy to bring up the matter and ask if he was doing okay.He could have pretended, one would say. Sure thing. Precisely Dabi’s thought when a mere second later brat had asked him to show him his fangs once again.“Excuse you,” Dabi muttered as if unsure that he did hear it correctly. “You want to see my what now?”“Your fangs,” Bakugou replied patiently.Were they playing a game now? If so, Dabi kindly refused to participate.“There’s nothing to be shy about - I already saw them when we met for the first time,” Bakugou carried on, daring to coo at him. Twelve years on earth and Bakugou still didn’t know how to properly address his elders. Was he responsible for that one too?, Dabi wondered briefly, hitting the back of Bakugou’s stupid head, suddenly blind to the scowl he got in response.“You were fricking bitten last week. For crying out loud, can’t you act accordingly for once?”He didn’t mean to. Or maybe he did… Whenever he did or not, he had succeeded, making Bakugou pout before he had collected himself enough to give Dabi an attitude, storming out the room with his tongue stuck out.
  Kids those days…
  ~*~
It seemed that Bakugou had taken his ‘advice’ to heart if his sudden change of attitude was anything to go by. They couldn’t pretend the whole thing didn’t happen anymore with Bakugou loudly complaining about it, thereby putting Shouto on edge. Not out of spite or because he sought pity - no, he did it simply because Dabi told him to, in the meantime finding some fine joy in oppressing poor Shouto. Using his own guilt against him to take a full advantage of it while the other boy jumped around him, eager to please.In truth, little has changed - there just had appeared an additional reason for someone to take care of Bakugou freely. And Bakugou liked that, oh he did, purring happily as Shouto stroked his soft blond locks or fondled sensitive fur on his tail.He was basically Bakugou’s personal slave at this point. Dabi suspected Shouto hadn’t truly minded, but both of them have insisted on keeping their appearances just right - Bakugou from time to time reminding Shouto of his so-called ‘crimes’, mostly just teasing and Shouto pretending it was a true punishment that he didn’t enjoy slightly.“Silly brats,” Dabi marked once, receiving nothing but pointed glares.
  ... He was sure he didn’t raise them that way...
  Brats' age: 12  -&gt;  13 years old
Dabi wasn’t the one to make rash promises yet here he was, assuring Shouto he had nothing to worry about because he’s going to take care of it. He was smarter than that; upon deeper reflection he would have figured out meddling into Enji’s plans was never worth it. That’s probably why for once he didn’t really think it through, settling for things before his self-preservation instinct got a chance to kick in and make him change his mind.He would teach Shouto how to feed properly before Enji got a chance to do something that would leave him broken beyond repair. Dabi didn’t care - he just didn’t want to be bothered about it later. Or worse - have another sibling. Because it seemed to be an answer to all of Enji’s problems - you fucked up once? Try again. You did it again? It is what it is. Maybe again? No better. One last chance? There may always be another!Someone should have sterilized Enji a long time ago. For the good of mankind, Dabi’s willing to take it upon himself if necessary.But maybe, just maybe, he wouldn’t have to (such a shame) given how bad at handling Shouto Enji truly was. Who would have thought that his constantly-barking-at-everything father would have turned out to be such a softie while dealing with Shouto’s cute-self. He was a weak man - but wasn’t them all? First, they have spoiled the brat. Then, they forgot how they were supposed to treat him in the first place. By now, Shouto was plainly allowed to have thing his own way.
  Wasn’t brat smart after all?
Yet ‘Shouto’s way’ did not always make people happy. Like then, it did not Enji - with a brat cheerfully announcing to him that Touya would be the one to take him out hunting. Wasn’t it wonderful? Everyone needed some good brother-bonding time. Well, not particularly in Enji’s opinion unless he would choose Natsuo instead, but he didn’t mention it this time. He just forced a smile, asking if Touya had already agreed to such a fine proposition, and Dabi just knew he had crossed the line.In fact, he was just as good as a dead man. No one in their right minds would have butted in Enji’s business of their own free will, not to mention ruining his long-term plans for a golden boy. There’re always the consequences and Dabi had paid enough of those in his life. Should he finally move out? It’s not like anything was stopping him, he figured out. Even Shouto’s big, shining eyes as he grabbed Dabi’s hand to hold it into his own. He would probably just have to kidnap the little princess when the time comes and he decided to flee.Sometimes, Dabi kinda missed the time when life was easier, he could have hated everyone equally and didn’t care about stupid brats one bit. 
  ~*~
He also regretted involving himself with Shouto in the first place. God, he fucking did, Dabi decided for sure this time, trying not to wrinkle his nose at the fragrance of a cheep perfume surrounding his companion. Of course Shouto had to be a damn savage, trying to bite off the wrist of the lady Dabi had introduced to him the last time, so now they had to be more careful, picking up people that were more… expendable. However rude it might sound. It was simply the truth - at this point Shouto had no self-control and Dabi couldn’t risk that he would go into full ripper-mood every second person he’d bring him.Naturally Enji would be thrilled - What an unexpected turn of events, he would probably say, smiling viciously. He didn’t respect humans’ lives enough to at least pretend they did truly matter, finding it rather hilarious when they were losing them, especially due to his family members.Dabi didn’t share Enji enthusiasm, same as would not the hunters. You bit the wrong person once, accidentally ripped their throat open, their head may have also felled down but it’s unrelated, and suddenly you’ve found out it’s considered as splitting on the entire humanity, and that, that had made the shit between you personal. What’s even worse than getting involved with them in the first place. Hunters didn’t fuck around with those hurting their kin - Dabi knew it first-handed, bumping into them during his rampage in London about three hundred years ago and barely making it out alive.They were nothing like ordinary humans, trained to kill vampires without as much as shedding a sweat. Immortal or not, there was little you could do with your head removed from your neck, and they knew how to chop it off for you in mere seconds. He would have probably lost his own too if not for a member of The Order who happened to pass by. Or whatever bullshit Tomura used to excuse himself for stalking him around the capital was it. Dabi didn’t know him back then, but felt slightly impressed by the ease he crushed hunters’ skulls under his heel, talking big and mighty about vampires' supremacy. By now it just made Dabi sick, because nothing about Shitty-Shit was worth admiration, and he would've gladly erased some memories from his own head, but that was not the point here.The point was - you don’t go acting reckless without at least one fanatic soldier having your back. Shouto didn’t have one (in contrary to some popular beliefs Dabi wasn’t much of a fighter) so unfortunately for him he would have to put up with Dabi tearing ‘the food’ away from him for now while it was still breathing and sound.In return Dabi would have endured the humiliation of bringing the hookers to some cheap-ass-hotel. He didn’t have anything against fille de joie in particular - besides their perfume daring to choke him to the very death - but it was just… sad. Paying for pleasure he could have had as well for free (and what’s more wasn’t receiving here at all). Renting a room that itself had probably cost him less than the lice in it. Turning down the fine damsel he had met on his way here - all that was nothing but sad. And for what? Shouto’s behalf only.If it’s not love, Dabi honestly didn’t know what love was.He’s your responsibility, implied his brain. An obligation you didn’t sigh yourself for.That much was true. But he was there regardless, wasn’t he?Yes he was; what’s more, with some clingy woman hanging onto his shoulder like her life depended on it, wanting nothing more but to dump her somewhere. Especially as they walked into the hotel room and her eyes had lit up instantly upon laying on Shouto.“And who do we have here? Such a cutie!”, she chirped, way too excited to Dabi liking, about to move forward and approach Shouto who just stood there awkwardly, when Dabi jerked her closer to himself, smiling sweetly. “My little brother. Don’t mind him.”“Aww, but he looks so preeety. Are we gonna to put on a show for him?... Or maybe he’s about to join us?” she asked earnestly and it had made Dabi winced because what an actual fuck? Aside from the fact that Sho was a damn minor, and it was bloody illegal (same as the prostitution itself, so let it be for now), why in the world would Dabi want him anywhere near his sex life? The whole point of this undertaking was to save Shouto’s fragile psyche - not to break it.They may have been into some shady motel, but similar assumptions were just improper. Humans were truly disgusting, Dabi established for good this time.“Nah. I won’t be the one to join you,” he admitted, catching and holding her gaze. Eye contact was all he needed to control her mind. Glamoring was truly an amazing ability. “Now shut up, would you?”She did, and Dabi was above and beyond gracious to finally be free from her babbling. Only to, a moment later, have realised that he was being quite impolite, and Shouto was still watching him.“You didn’t hear shit. I may be rude, but you’re not allowed to. Always be nice to ladies,” Dabi ordered, then added after a second though, “...and Bakugou. If I see you acting disrespectful we’re gonna have a long talk, brat.”He warned, fixing Shouto with a glare. Sometimes being the eldest sibling was just fun. Hardly ever, but it occurred and was rewarding enough for Dabi to survive through the whole ‘Shouto’s growing up’ phrase. Holding and adjusting the numb body into his arm to offer Shouto the slim wrist was one of the easiest things he had to do during that time anyway.“Now, eat.” 
Dabi was hungry. For the first time in probably ages crawling fresh blood to the point of literally drooling over the sight of the bare neck of the servant serving him his coffee. In front of Enji’s eyes, making the old man sneer in clear delightment.“Starving yourself, are we?” Enji asked rhetorically, for some reason visibly pleased with himself. “You’ve finally learnt how needy the kids could be. How does it feel?”Shitty. His own hunting time was now all about Shouto and he didn’t have even a drop of blood out of it. Shouto was eating for both of them, still incapable of stopping himself halfway, fighting with Dabi over every last lick of the sweet liquid. He had to separate him from their prey by force, screaming internally, because goddammit, he was living on the bloody-bags for months now, and it didn't look as if was going to change anytime soon.“You’re quiet for once so I assume not good. Me and your mother have a matter to attend to in the next few days, so feel free to have some… fun.” He was about to snap when the meaning of Enji’s statement sank in, leaving him bewildered. It was nothing but suspicious (he was positive that Enji didn’t know what “fun” was after all, not to mention he might have actually cared for Dabi’s well-being), yet caught him enough off guard for Enji to continue as if they had just agreed to something. “This fine boy announced he’s going to visit you soon, so do your best to please him. It’ll do you good too.”Right. RIGHT. Of course that’s what he had in mind. Dabi didn’t even care Enji was in touch with Tomura (no surprise really - bloody lunatics tend to attract each other), because there was no other ‘fine boy’ (aside from the fact that Tomura wasn’t truly ‘a boy’ being not much younger than Enji himself) among Dabi’s friends approved by Enji to the degree that he would literally tell Dabi to go fuck him. For their family no less. Enji may be the fanboy of The Order, trying to get into their pants over centuries, but Dabi was not. If he wanted to creep into theirs grace so badly, he could have done it himself.“Fine, thanks. But wouldn’t want to have all the fun to myself - Shigaraki likes to share, so expect a wild party, old man.”It was a sincere warning. Not because he knew what Tomura’s preferences looked like, but because he intended to keep his word and throw a party that would leave his father speechless, full of regrets and minding his own damn business in the future. 
“Our Bloody Marys have an actual Marys in them. Isn’t it funny?” asked the Nutjob also known as Himiko Toga. Dabi wouldn’t invite her if she hadn’t actually planned the whole party instead of him. Besides, she pissed Tomura off like no one else. “It is, right Shigi?”“Don’t call me that,” Tomura barked, fixing her with a flat look. “And it’s not - we always drink it that way. Not to mention you should have chosen type AB. It’s more balanced and would’ve saved you the headache tomorrow.”“I prefer it sweet!”“You’ve got a terrible taste!”Honestly, it was awful either way as they swapped usual alcohol with their weird ‘magical potion’ that made it impossible even for vampires’ metabolism to keep up, so they both should just shut up. If it resulted in both of them up drunk as a lord, lying on his kitchen floor drooling, Dabi would simply leave them there to rot. No mercy for the weak - if it also ended up with the rest of the guest puking everywhere because of their stupid blend Dabi would go even further, shaving Toga’s head bald.“There’s something sinister about your smile,” Toga murmured, wrapping herself around Tomura like a snake around its prey. Impressively unaffected by his attempt to shake her off. “If you finally went insane thanks to malnutrition and plan to butcher us for food, let me just remind you, there’re yummy humans merely a room away.”“Whom you had picked,” Tomura reminded her like it itself was enough of an insult. “With your remarkably abominable taste.”If he had required oxygen to live, he would be dead by now, with Himiko crushing his windpipe like he deserved nothing but to choke on his words. Quite literally.“...fu-...c...off.”“I’m sorry, you’re saying something? Hmm?... What? Come again?”Dabi should not laugh. He should not, especially as Tomura vein most certainly popped, so he decided to cut the bullshit by wrapping his own arms around Himiko’s ones, with (pitifully) little efforts flipping her over his shoulder to send her straight to the kitchen’s floor.“I said no one wants to get anywhere near your foul humans.”“I kinda intended to-” Dabi tried to protest at once hushed by Tomura.“You did not. I had particularly flavoursome meal before arriving here so if you want-”He was going to offer him a bite, Dabi knew that much, trying to avoid it all along. He was hungry, not stupid - taking on a proposition like that would have ended up in one possible way, and he preferred to keep Tomura far and away from his bed. Not only because Enji suggested he should do exactly the opposite; it was more about the principle.You don’t want to get stabbed with a stake? Don’t sleep with fucking psychopaths. Easy, wasn’t it?To sane people - probably yes. But Dabi wasn’t a textbook example of a person in his right-mind, so he may have done it a couple of times already despite everything. He liked to make rash decisions and play with danger. The thing was, Tomura wasn’t as threatening as Dabi once considered him to be - without any real temptation in it, shoving him aside proved to be even easier than it should be.Specially with Toga rising from the floor with such a sharp burst of laughter it startled both of them to the extent of plainly allowing her to do as she pleased. What ended up to be her cackling behind Dabi back, secured by it enough to point a finger at Tomura and cried out, “You just want to woo him!”“You little-”Not like Tomura would admit something like out loud that, throwing himself forward to probably tear out her tongue and Dabi instinctively moved to not let him, blocking his way with his own body. Sometimes, they reminded him of children. And he wasn’t dealing with those today.“I’m out,” he communicated shortly, freeing himself from between than, in the process forcing a shriek out of Toga who had to stumble backwards to avoid an unexpected meeting with Tomura’s palm. They being occupied with each other was a rare chance for Dabi to finally find someone and do what needed to be done - meaning eating. And screwing. Maybe eating while screwing. But mostly the first one; the second due to nature was just an addition. At last without any disturbance or brats judging his every move.He was almost by the door when someone had walked in saying, “There’s a kid looking for you host,” Tomura had tried to grab Toga by the hair and to escape she jumped Dabi’s back so abruptly it made him trip over his own feet, bumping into the poor messenger-girl and sending her straight at whoever stood behind her.Everything happened so fast Dabi barely registered chaos was about to erupt, when Bakugou’s bloody face came into view and Dabi had reached for him to jerk him from the floor, closer to himself and out of reach of others. A weak fragrance of fresh blood appeared in the air, mixing with the odor of alcohol and hunger. There was a little wolf among the horde of greedy/ drunk-ass vampires, smelling better than any ordinary human could. With blood dripping from his (hopefully not) broken nose, cursing under his breath while pressed to Dabi’s chest tightly.For now the stranger woman was his main problem, watching Bakugou with her glowing eyes, like a predator estimating its prey. She was affected by his blood and Dabi needed to minimize the risk of something going terrible wrong while he still could.“He’s mine,” Dabi warned in a low growl.He made his claim, hoping it would prevent her from trying anything funny. The other two in the room would be far more dangerous than her if it came to that, but he trusted Tomura enough to at least keep his shit together, and if necessary - Toga’s too. They were old enough to resist the urges. Dabi would not risk making the similar assumption about a complete stranger.Fortunately, with Tomura backing him up - because as it turned out she was his damn subordinate and he could boss her around as he liked - she didn’t struggle much, leaving right ahead. Making it unnecessary for Dabi to hold onto Bakugou any longer, but no less reluctant to finally let him go. So instead, he just lifted the boy up and had him sit down on the kitchen counter, to examine his injury.“Weren’t you cool just now?” Bakugou taunted, having the audacity to smirking like a little shit he was. “Calling me yours and all.”“I had basically claimed you’re my snack,” Dabi explained patiently. “But sure, glad you liked it,” he snarked, a bit pissed by Bakugou’s wild grin. Determined to remove it off his face, with a grin of his own Dabi touching Bakugou’s upper lip. The blood started to dry up here but he still managed to strain his fingers with it before dragging them across Bakugou’s cheeks like a war paint. Smearing the red fluid all over his face simply because he found it funny. “Still, it does complicate things for me, so care to explain what you’re doing here?”Bakugou was not supposed to be here tonight. Dabi hadn't seen him in months so he didn’t make sure of it personally, but he did send Shouto away for the weekend and it should have guaranteed him just that. No babysitting for today. Just fun and no worries- and where the hell was Shouto then? Because obviously not with Bakugou, Dabi realised with horror, expressing his concerns before Bakugou even got a chance to answer his previous question.“How am I supposed to know that? Aren’t you his damn mother?”Bakugou was scowling now but Dabi let it slip, too preoccupied with other thoughts to at least argue that if anything he was the damn father and no less here. “He said he’ll be at the friend’s house,” Dabi tried again, slowly. “You’re a friend.”“He had other friends,” Bakugou pointed out like it was bloody obvious.“No he had not.”“What?”Dabi managed to surprise him at least it seemed.“I never met any of his so-called “friends”, so they don’t exist. Period.”Bakugou was Shouto’s only friend for what Dabi was concerned about. If someone dared to claim differently he would have gladly met them and prove them how wrong they were. Shouto would not associate himself with peasants. Especially those who lacked the gut to face him properly before getting all friendly with his baby brother.“Un-fucking-believable,” Bakugou signed, unbothered by Dabi’s objections about the language. “You’re unbelievable - he’s at stupid Deku house. He’s very real by the way.”Deku as “One who can't do anything”, Dabi translated in his head, squinting his eyes suspiciously. Was that some kind of secret code between them? Have they truly thought Dabi would not see right through it? What were they trying to hide from him? Was Shouto having a girlfriend or something? A boyfriend maybe? Wasn’t he too young? ...In a hundred years - perhaps. But not yet. Not now.“You’re wasting all the blood!” Toga squirmed somewhere behind his right shoulder. Bringing Dabi back to reality, clearly unhappy Bakugou and his own hand still wandering around his face like he absently tried to wipe his fingers clean with Bakugou’s skin. “If you’re not gonna eat that, may I have a bite?” she asked sweetly, instantly making Tomura scowl, “HE WON’T BE EATING THAT.” like it was one of the fundamental truths.He was partly right because Dabi obviously wouldn't do that to Bakugou, and both of them would prefer to rather not have to think of that at all, but something in the way Tomura had said that must have triggered Bakugou.“He will, so shut up bitch.”Bakugou was only thirteen back then and Dabi couldn’t tell if he was more proud or terrified at the moment, trying to wrestle Tomura away as he swore he’s going to divest him off his tongue, while the culprit of the whole mess just laughed out loud, clearly pleased with himself.
        Notes:
          (1)  Bakugou knows no fear and wanted to compare the size of Todorokis' fangs(2)  "You want a man? Get yourself one"  is basically Touya's life motto. That's why he won't bring Shouto any - when Shouto's older he would have to work for it himself (until then only ladies on the menu)(3)  Bakugou was just checking on Dabi ‘cause he haven’t seen him in months and it felt strange(4)  So Tomura’s here and he’s trying to recruit Dabi to his suicide squad  (Sound familiar?)(5)  He also doesn’t like Bakugou much  (Wonder why)(6)  Bakugou on the other side thinks Tomura smells filthy (Again, wonder why, with all his filthy thoughts)(7)  Dabi: So honestly, tell me, is my father trying to marry me away to you or something?Tomura: More like sell off. But I don’t like him enough to let go of the extra charges.Dabi: ... Are you making him pay now?Tomura: Not yet, but we’ll get there.So I’m curious - is there something you particularly like / don’t like about this fic; would you prefer if I wrote more / less about something; if so, what would it be?Also, I consider using some of yours ideas, so if you had any interesting thought about what should happen next just tell me - if it fit in with the plot (and I’ll be able to write it down) I may use it in the next chapters -&gt;  it's basically last chance before I make brats grown up; there’s no turning back from that. What's Coming Next: -&gt; the party continues, Toga’s a little shit and someone got Bakugou drunk -&gt; (+) some of your ideas maybe.  ~(^w^)~
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (62)
  Comments
          RedAlligator, InsertANiceNameHere, Aethyria, bittersweet04, FOXKILL2008, bachira, sevenheaven, catsuki_07, Fellowfox, KawaiiBitch, Pope_Ammie, TiiniiTinysaurus, Cuuute0123, F_sadblue, soojunghwan, Mercela123, BihnWeebed, SpiffyCo, KimMihee, Ashgirl, Idfk_5064, CloudyLambo, Amy3, petricor, magnusi, Aki_Yuu, HijiGinuwu, exousia, Crmlil1, Dacari, Bubu94, Calma_Maya, Honest_Orange2, naggieee, donthink, Ouijineon, FrostApawie, insin, orangehush, Kenny_420, heuphoria, bbby, actualfoxes, Anleri, AzulinaStars, Lacia, hb66, alecjiov, Tiah_Turtle38, Footymato, 
               and 88 more users
            AkiChan, MaybeICanNeverFly, cas93, Luwis06, HobiandSuga, BinBin666, pure_awesomeness_in_a_jar, hecate600, went2hell, Lord_Cornflake, Mochi25, Setfiretotherainbow, annabelle98, xenawikibellamaw, pausu, Ozzlynn, Mt_Cute_Cat, Evan_The_Geek, skd19, Saschy123, Ami80011, caravanofdreams4death, Ruebell_Uprising, anoyaingyuu, xXbunnyloverXx, deaddy, OfficialTsundere, catabo1ic_seed, SecondaryDrowning, Sweetchk, Sydd, Katsurin, Thatantisocial14, Runixz, kagamicchi_77, PhyllisCake, muu, DearthofPain, valancelot, Mantykora, druidicaasimar, Sayonaramayo, VVVMMM, Prickat, Greyisles, Juiy_J, tala811, GoddessofMadness, Yusoma, Taebear_Bts, bluesetter, 333Florence333, yellowisgold, Floranna, nozurei, ChibiKarasu54, bluberrytobz, Thisoppa, JJAexuixal230, TheFckingHood, allaboutsxm, Animefanfreak45, Runrun, Waldgott, C_Anemone, DannyVil357, Happynapper69, DestielFan135209, moonxlies, tamamovicchi, hanangmad, alrt319, Electiz_Grace, lighterain, Havel01a, Jiggy28, AbbyStaffyIsGeek, OrangeCatWithDancingSlippers, CurvedMetal, BlueOctopus, MiaPhontomhive, Najz28, elisarai, Ellabellanoche, TadahHead03, AlysaTurner, Emy2110 and cherryexplosion
             as well as 
          143 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
