      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationship:
               Ashido Mina/Bakugou Katsuki/Kaminari Denki/Kirishima Eijirou/Sero Hanta
              Characters:
               Ashido MinaBakugou KatsukiKaminari DenkiKirishima EijirouSero Hanta
              Additional Tags:
               Plot What Plot/Porn Without PlotBottom Bakugou KatsukiOverstimulationExplicit Sexual ContentKinktober 2020Coming Untouchedbig dickDirty TalkTeasingEstablished RelationshipPolyamorous Bakusquad (My Hero Academia)
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Wink Wonk (Kinktober 2020) series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-02Words:2446Chapters:1/1Comments:6Kudos:116Bookmarks:10Hits:1565
      Ours to Ruin
      screamingbees
          Summary:
  Day 1: Overstimulation | Coming Untouched
It's easy to ruin Bakugou Katsuki. All you need is one Kirishima, Ashido, Kaminari, and Sero. Add in Bakugou's lewd body and you're golden.
  Notes:
      What better way to start off Kinktober than Bakusquad? wink wonk
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
        Work Text:
  Katsuki wasn’t sure how he ended up in this fucking position. 
  Naked, bare-ass, and kneeling over Eijirou’s torso, four pairs of eyes dragged across his body hungrily. He shivered as heated hands guided his hips, chills crawling up his spine. He refused to acknowledge them.
  “No need to be nervous, sweetheart,” came Eijirou’s caramel voice behind him. “Just relax.”
  “I’m not nervous!” Katsuki snapped, growling when the hands tightened their grip. They smoothed up his sides, caressing him with calloused fingers in an attempt to soothe him. “And stop touching me, dammit! You’re making it worse!”
  The voice behind him sighed, but obeyed, hands dropping away to let Katsuki control the pace. 
  Shakily, Katsuki lowered himself until he felt Eijirou’s erect cock nudge against his cheeks. Cursing under his breath, he aggressively grabbed Eijirou’s cock, ignoring the grunt from behind him, and positioned it against his hole. 
  Fuck, he shouldn’t have to psych himself up for this, but the dick that hung between Eijirou’s legs was an absolute monster and Katsuki wanted to be able to walk tomorrow. He was lubed up, stretched out with four fingers, Eijirou’s cock was leaking everywhere, and he had done this before so—
  “C’mon, hurry up!” Denki’s voice whined.
  Katsuki growled at Denki, glare smoldering from his lost concentration. “Shut the fuck up, Dunce Face! He’s too fucking big, okay?” 
  Denki pouted while Hanta and Mina chuckled at the tongue lashing Denki received and didn’t make an effort to comfort him. Meanwhile, Eijirou’s face had turned scarlet at the unintentional compliment before he gasped in pain as Katsuki’s grip turned almost lethal. 
  “Shut up, Shitty Hair,” Katsuki griped before he returned to the task at hand. He prodded the dick against his hole a few times, took a deep breath and—
  “Hurry up!”
  “Dunce Face!” Katsuki roared, “I was— ah!”
  The head of Eijirou’s cock popped into Katsuki’s well-lubed entrance and they both let out strangled moans, one in delight and the other in mortification. 
  “Ah!” Katsuki cried as his weak legs betrayed him, easily sliding down Eijirou’s dick inch by inch. “Too- too big!”
  Eijirou recovered first, taking advantage of the opportunity to seize Katsuki’s waist (despite his wails not to) and slammed him down all the way.
  “Fuck, fuck!” Katsuki squirmed. His face scrunched in frustration, core tensed from the baseball bat inside him.
  “Yay!” Came Mina’s delighted cheer, ignoring Katsuki’s struggle to clamber into his lap. 
  Before Katsuki could shove her off, his arms were snatched above his head, a piece of tape tying his wrists together before dropping them behind Eijirou’s neck. Katsuki whimpered and cursed as he was forced to take Mina’s weight and Eijirou’s cock deeper.
  “Fucking shit!”
  “C’mon Katsuki,” Eijirou murmured in his ear, reaching past Katsuki to grab at Mina’s hips so that he could adjust their weights and prevent any of them from falling off. “You like this.” 
  Mina giggled and braced herself onto her knees to ease Eijirou’s troubles. “Yeah, Katsuki,” she sighed as Eijirou finally found the right position with his head on Denki’s lap. “Be good for us.”
  She wiggled on top of him and purposely ground against his cock, a little “oh” dropping from her lips as she found the right angle to rub against her clit. Katsuki moaned weakly, attempts to school his face into anger failing. Eijirou’s arms flexed as he helped guide the rhythm, stretching every so often to give a quick jerk.
  “Yeah, Katsuki,” Hanta echoed, signature smile flashing at Katsuki as he situated himself behind Mina. “Be good for us.” Then he took a bite out of Katsuki’s inner thigh. 
  Katsuki howled as the skin there lit up his body. He tried to buck his hips, instinct driving him to jerk his sensitive parts away from Hanta. 
  He had a love/hate relationship with Hanta’s mouth. The man could utter the filthiest words and give the best head any day, but when he used his skills for his own pleasure? Katsuki was in for a sinful time.
  “And you’re so good for us, aren’t you?” Denki spoke from above him. “You said you wanted this, but baby,” Denki purred, “you have no idea how delicious you look right now. Four-course dinner all ready to be devoured by us.”
  On cue, Hanta took another bite out of Katsuki’s skin, latching on with his teeth before laving the reddened area with a hot tongue. 
  Katsuki shuddered and gasped, struggling with his hands trapped as moans and whines were practically ripped out of him with each touch. 
  A sharp pinch at one of his nipples shook him out of his reverie and his eyes shot open, staring dumbfounded into Mina’s eyes. She had a smug look on like she knew she was about to rock his world, as she smoothed her other hand upwards, skimming past his abs to reach his other pec.
  “Focus on me, baby~”
  Attention captured, she scooted upwards his body, letting his cock slap onto his stomach and lifting herself onto her knees. She stretched both her hands down, but instead of grabbing his cock like he hoped she would, she pushed one finger each into her pussy, pulling them apart until he could see pink and more pink.
  “Like it, baby?” And Katsuki nodded quickly, feeling Denki and Eijirou still their movements as they too watched.
  Mina moaned as she tilted her head back, rubbing her lips together with her fingers as she played to her heart’s content. Her juices glistened in the light and with every second the boys watched, her slick grew heavier, quickly slicking up from the lust in their gaze.
  A drop of slick fell when she parted her pussy again and the sound in Katsuki’s throat was inhuman as he watched it land on his cock then slid down the side to his belly.
  “Lucky,” Eijirou and Denki hissed and Katsuki’s cock twitched.
  “Just for our lucky boy,” Mina answered, but her eyes were focussed only on Katsuki.
  He swallowed and moaned, refusing to throw his head back even as Mina made her next move. She stretched her lips as far as she could, then lowered herself by spreading her knees until Katsuki could feel burning wet heat envelop his cock.
  “Mmm,” Mina moaned lewdly, “so good.”
  She rode his cock, newly produced slick adding to both hers and Katsuki’s pleasure.
  The silence that followed held its breath before a “Fuckk,” came from Eijirou’s strangled moan. “That’s the hottest thing I’ve seen.” Katsuki could feel his hot breath puffing away next to his ear.
  Denki furiously nodded his assent, eyes focused on the space connecting Mina and Katsuki. “Holy shit,” he whispered.
  “Same,” Hanta gawked. “I wish I could’ve seen it from all sides. Mina—darling, your ass looked so good, and right now, yeah, when you did that.”
  Mina giggled, biting her lip at the attention from her adoring fans. “Thank you, Hanta, but you should’ve seen Katsuki’s face. Never seen him so starstruck.”
  “The fuck does that mean?!” 
  Everyone laughed as the sexy mood was disrupted by Katsuki’s outburst.
  “Baby, baby,” Denki cajoled, an infectious grin on his face. “There’s nothing bad about it!”
  “Yeah,” Eijirou chimed in. “We love seeing you go speechless.”
  “For different reasons,” Hanta popped up, unable to resist waggling his eyebrows.
  Even Mina had stopped her rocking, shaking as laughter shook her body and distracted her from her task. “Very different reasons,” she said, wagging her tongue at Katsuki.
  Katsuki looked away from all of them, determined to not give them any more satisfaction from getting a reaction out of him, but it was too late: they had already seen the blush on his face.
  His datemates grinned and let him sulk, content to continue playing with his body as he pouted. Denki reached down to squeeze his pecs, pushing them up and down as Eijirou and Mina watched. 
  “Fuck, so perfect,” Eijirou murmured as the other two hummed in approval, his hands grabbing at Katsuki’s tits as Denki pinched his nipples.
  They could see that their boyfriend was struggling to look away, eyes squeezed tightly and bottom lip worried between his teeth. It was only until Denki had pulled hard on his nips did he snap his attention back on them.
  “Oi! That hurts!”
  Mina laughed as she felt his cock throb beneath her. She leaned over and pressed her boobs against his, sighing as their plush chests squished together. Without preamble, she reached up and captured his lips with her own.
  Denki shifted out of his position from under Eijirou—ignoring complaints—and crawled over to where Katsuki and Mina were making out, snaking a hand towards where their tits were. 
  “Shit,” he said, “what I would give to fuck between these tits.”
  Mina laughed at his daydream, no doubt imagining the awkward position they would have to get into to achieve that. “Maybe not today, babe. But right now, you can definitely get your mouth in between us.” No sooner than she lifted away, her body seized up and dissolved into a moan.
  Denki peeked over to see Hanta buried in between Mina’s cheeks. He gave his boyfriend a cheeky thumbs up and received one in return. 
  Doing his best to not bang his head into Mina’s head or shoulders, he bent down and popped one of the nipples in sight into his mouth. Encouraged by the cry he received, he lapped his tongue over the peaked bud, swirling over a larger area when Eijirou’s palm cupped the back of his head.
  Fuck, if he could stay here forever, he would. Surrounded by plush mountains and strong muscles, he couldn’t resist gripping his own cock.
  “Oo-ohh, Hanta,” Mina quivered beside him. She stilled, then gracelessly tumbled off of Katsuki and Eijirou’s bodies, legs squeezing together as she tried to recover from the magic that was Hanta’s tongue.
  “That good, sweetheart?” Eijirou asked chuckling, skating his fingers into her limp hand and she answered him by gripping back, riding out the aftershocks of her orgasm with a groan. 
  “Y’know, Katsuki,” Hanta smirked, pleased with Mina’s review, “I don’t think you’ve ever cummed without having your cock touched.”
  Katsuki’s eyes flashed, easily able to guess what was on Hanta’s mind. He tried to pull off a menacing expression, a challenge with how his blush had already reached his chest. “So fucking what, Hanta? Just suck my cock already.”
  Hanta ignored his demand, tapping his chin with a finger, almost like he was deep in thought. “Hmm, I wonder…”
  With Mina’s weight off of him, Katsuki was in control of his lower half again. He tried to kick Hanta with a leg. That is before he remembered that Eijirou’s cock was still inside him. He choked as he slid off off Eijirou’s cock a little and judging by the hiss and hands suddenly wrapped around his waist, Eijirou didn’t like that either.
  “Now, now,” Hanta’s lecherous grin taunted, “No need to be so hasty.” He pushed down on Katsuki’s hips until his hole swallowed Eijirou’s cock all the way again. “After all, you still need to cockwarm him.”
  Katsuki was barely able to turn his whine into a grunt. He regretted letting these fuckers know all his kinks.
  “Eijirou is sooo big,” Hanta continued, catching sight of Eijirou’s flushed face and winking at him. “He deserves a tight hole to rest his cock in, doesn’t he? It’s too heavy to hang out on its own.” Eijirou’s face turned even redder and Katsuki refused to answer, but those reactions did nothing to deter Hanta. 
  “And you’re such a good boy. So do what good boys do, won’t you?”
  Without warning, Hanta smacked a palm atop Katsuki’s thigh, hitting the litters of blemishes and purpling marks. Katsuki’s hips jolted, letting out a tiny yelp.
  “Good boy.”
  If his blush wasn’t already at his chest, Katsuki was sure that it would now. As it was, he turned scarlet red instead.
  The three boys sprang into action. Eijirou ground his hips against Katsuki’s ass, large hands dancing up and down Katsuki’s upper body to leave heated touches everywhere. Denki quickened his pace, roughly tugging and pulling at Katsuki’s tits with his fingers and lips, sometimes with teeth.
  As for Hanta. Well if the rest of his boyfriends were trying their best to get Katsuki to cum, Hanta wasn’t going to be left behind. He pushed at Katsuki’s legs and folded him in half, revelling in the whines and moans. With a new blank canvas bared access to him, his teeth and tongue were punishing and quick, a warm metal piercing leaving trails of electricity up the back of Katsuki’s thighs.
  Katsuki’s breath quickened as the ministrations amped up and with every lick Hanta made over his perineum, his cock twitched and leaked more.
  “Fuck! Fuck!” He cried when he was at his limit, “I’m gonna— ah! I’m—” 
  His balls lifted and white cum spurted from his cock, splattering and dripping as Eijirou scooped and rubbed the wet into his skin.
  Katsuki fought to catch his breath, suddenly acutely aware of how numb his hands were, throbbing and trapped underneath Eijirou’s weight the entire time. 
  “Shit…” he whined as his high begun to fade and he could feel the numerous hickeys start to sting from his thighs. “Untie me— Ah!”
  Without so much as a warning, Hanta sucked one of Katsuki’s balls into his mouth, rolling the sack around as his hand reached up to slide up and down Katsuki’s cock.
  “Hanta- Hanta! Shit, fuck, ah!”
  A finger swiped across his abs and Katsuki opened his eyes blearily (when had he closed them?) just in time to see Mina pop her cum-coated finger into her mouth. She grinned at him and that was all he saw before his eyes involuntarily snapped shut again.
  Hanta’s mouth moved quickly up and down the end of Katsuki’s cock, massaging his dick with his hand at the base. His cheeks hollowed as he sucked before he dropped his head all the way down, deepthroating without warming-up.
  The twitch of Katsuki’s cock in Hanta’s throat was strong, but his cum load barely dribbled. Sitting back on his haunches, Hanta gave a self-satisfied smirk at the debauched state of Katsuki. Sprawled open legs, dick limp against his hip, Katsuki was practically melted on top of Eijirou, unable to hold himself up in any way.
  Hanta wiped the back of his hand on his mouth and stuck out his clean tongue. 
  “L-looks like your ass finished, cockwarmer,” Hanta grunted, stroking his cock and licking his lips at the way Katsuki tracked his movements, “Think you can still use your mouth?”
  Notes:
  Check out this series' notes for what I have planned for Kinktober! I only have a few works to post rn, so this will definitely take more than 30 days haha. Or visit me on Twitter at @beesandbnha for the list of prompts! I love seeing fellow bakusquad or bottom bakugou enthusiasts :D
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Wink Wonk (Kinktober 2020) series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (6)
  Comments
          SpikeTheCat, bakuboy609, PeculiarChild, Hobbitress, NeonBlurred, valentinablanco, seokangel, sasha_cfk, remwyd, squidney_crosby, Incinera, musicsavior2024, nikki7250, Jennkiss, glitterfangirl, apinchforpynch, Mejiuu, OtterReads, MoonGoddes7, AnisaNiaLek, Keeper_of_Unicornia, a_dot_dev, theumbrellastealer, Kolter, halefireworks, piemaker93, jazmaniac, SmilesForHobi, Zarizil75, AdoringlyDoris, FantasyCandy93, Jillie, MetrionWarrior, Sprite_Cranberry_Time, Luwis06, Dam_Nobody_Followed_The_Spiders, NyanErrol, AceKingQueen, Ichigouk, Chlo_EEEE21, Mxrigxld, time_to_scream_into_the_void, Swag_like_Suga, KachowBakugou, Gr0undZer0, BrookeGold, humanities_angstiest, muu, kat_yaoilover4, JadeIcing, 
               and 17 more users
            MystiqueMisha, spideygguk, 3AM_And_No_End_In_Sight, Emy2110, Idkeiadh_BakuBB4, GanglyLimbs, Quisby, Queen_of_the_Otakus, benasty, katsu_kitten_883, icythottt, Catduh, Theshadehasbeenthrown, itsmyusualday, jessi_the_unicorn, sakurri and breadtime
             as well as 
          49 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
                    GanglyLimbs
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 06:41PM MSK 
        This is perfect in every way, holy shit. Eijirou is sooo big,” Hanta continued, catching sight of Eijirou’s flushed face and winking at him. “He deserves a tight hole to rest his cock in, doesn’t he? It’s too heavy to hang out on its own.” This killed me. I'm absolutely dead.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    screamingbees
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 07:11PM MSK 
        fjslkfsds thank you so much! ;Dbig dick wrecking bakugou? check. dirty talk mocking him? check. hanta's sinful mouth? check! hahathank you for reading!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Idkeiadh_BakuBB4
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 07:58PM MSK 
        I am at loss for words this is perfect
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    screamingbees
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 10:01PM MSK 
        haha, thank you so much!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    MystiqueMisha
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 12:33AM MSK 
        Nice one bees! My fave was of course Bakugou cock warming Kiri!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    screamingbees
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 02:16AM MSK 
        Thank you so much! Haha kiri needs a good cockwarmer
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
