      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "sherlock (tv)" m/m NOT "sherlock holmes/john watson"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. River
2. Dimeritium
3. Dress
4. Cavern
5. Run
6. Out
7. Chord
8. Drown
9. Ritual
10. Blood
        Full-page index
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Graphic Depictions Of Violence
              Categories:
               F/MGenM/M
              Fandoms:
               Wiedźmin | The Witcher (Video Game)Wiedźmin | The Witcher - All Media TypesWiedźmin | The Witcher Series - Andrzej SapkowskiThe Witcher (TV)
              Relationships:
               Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia/Jaskier | DandelionEskel &amp; Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGeralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia &amp; Jaskier | DandelionCirilla Fiona Elen Riannon &amp; Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGeralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia/Yennefer z Vengerbergu | Yennefer of VengerbergEssi Daven/Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia
              Characters:
               Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaJaskier | DandelionEskel (The Witcher)Cirilla Fiona Elen RiannonYennefer z Vengerbergu | Yennefer of VengerbergNenneke (The Witcher)Essi DavenOriginal Witcher Character(s)
              Additional Tags:
               Whumptober 2020Hurt Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGeralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia WhumpProtective Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGeralt z Rivii | Geralt of Rivia Has FeelingsProtective Jaskier | DandelionI don't want to tag too much because all these stories sort of stand on their ownEmotionally Constipated Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGood Parent Geralt z Rivii | Geralt of RiviaGrief/MourningCheck individual chapters for warningsSome of these get dark folksMajor Character InjuryInjury RecoveryBlood and InjuryCanon-Typical Violence
        Language:
        English
        Collections:
        Whumptober 2020
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-01Updated:2020-10-10Words:34973Chapters:10/31Comments:27Kudos:73Bookmarks:6Hits:1135
      A Moving Sea Between the Shores of Your Souls
      ShyThrush
      Chapter 10: Blood
          Summary:
            After Posada, Jaskier discovers that head wounds bleed a lot.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Jaskier meandered along in front of Geralt for several miles after they left Posada and Dol Blathanna in the dust. He had taken the Witcher’s instructions not to touch Roach very seriously, especially considering his gut was still smarting a bit from the last time he had tried to overstep his bounds. He strummed at his lute, heart racing a bit with excitement at the thought of his new composition. Sometimes, when he composed a chord progression or a harmony, it made his hair stand on end. That was how Jaskier knew when a particular melody would be good. Peasants and villagers did not always have ears for music, but when one could compose a piece that spurred a visceral, physical reaction? Everyone paid to hear music that made their spine tingle. And this piece, from the first chord all the way through to the bridge, sent shivers rocking up and down Jaskier’s spine. He could hardly contain his excitement. There was a new bounce to his step, a feeling of rebirth, a hope that he wouldn’t have to spent the rest of his days strumming his lute in return for mouldy vegetables. With the sun beginning to set, casting long shadows on the high cliffs that still rose on either side of them, Jaskier turned, intending to see what Geralt’s plans were for the night. He hoped the Witcher would not do away with him. Heroics and heartbreak indeed, but there was something more deeply intriguing about the White Wolf. Jaskier almost felt drawn to him. As a man who put great stock in destiny, he could not ignore such a feeling. Perhaps, just perhaps, he had found where he was meant to be.“Geralt? Are you planning on stopping for the night? Or do Witchers not need to sleep? I’ve never met one before, you know, and stranger things have been known to happen…”At this last word he wheeled to face the Witcher and his horse, and his jaw dropped.“Great hells!”Geralt reined in Roach with a gentle tug, and scowled as Jaskier before looking around, trying to scope out what had alarmed the bard. Coming up empty-handed, he faced Jaskier again.“Yes?”“You…your face! How long have you been riding like that? How can you see? Do we need to ride back to Posada and fetch a healer? Sweet Melitele, I knew the life of a Witcher was dangerous, but I wasn’t expecting this!”Geralt looked infuriatingly calm, if a little confused. He quirked a brow by way of a question.“The blood, Geralt! All over your face! You look like something took a bite out of you!”“Ah.”Geralt reached up and poked at the crusty blood for a moment, taking his glove away from his face and investigating its contents at close range. He blinked a few times, and did something odd with his pupils that made Jaskier feel very nervous; no normal human could make their pupils expand and contract that rapidly. The Witcher frowned.“It’s just from where they hit me, before they captured us. It’ll heal in a few days.”Jaskier gaped. He could feel his jaw working, in a way that his father had once described as “making him look like a beached fish”. “No, no, no. This is ridiculous. You’re positively coated with blood, Geralt. It’s all over you. This is not a ‘heals in a few days’ type of injury! You…you could be concussed!”“I am. But it’ll heal. Stop your yelling. If you were so worried about my being concussed, you wouldn’t be making such a racket and making my headache worse. We’ll camp once we get out of this gorge. Less chance of an ambush without high walls surrounding us.”Jaskier could find nothing to say after that. Whoever had said Witchers were mad was absolutely right. He had had a concussion himself, in his earlier youth, and harboured horrible memories of spending days in bed, nauseated by the slightest light or movement. He stole another look at Geralt. The man didn’t even look dizzy. Unnatural, indeed.----When they finally ascended out of the gorge and onto a grassy plateau, it was well past dark. Jaskier had stopped strumming his lute after his and Geralt’s earlier conversation, not wanting to bother the man’s head, though he seemed perfectly fine. Without music, though, the night was eerily silent. Every hooting owl and vole rustling through the grass made Jaskier jump. He always played while he was travelling. It felt wrong not to do so now, especially with so many tunes and melodies swirling in his mind. He tapped his fingers idly on his thigh, trying to distract himself.Suddenly, the bard heard a jingling noise behind him, and spun just in time to see Geralt dismounting, taking a moment to steady himself on Roach’s side. It was the first sign the bard had seen that he had taken any sort of injury, and in an odd way it made him feel a bit relieved. Perhaps Geralt wasn’t so infallible as he wanted others to believe.“Are we stopping?”“Clearly.”Geralt was busying himself removing Roach’s saddle and bridle, and he tossed a few dry logs off her back in Jaskier’s general direction.“We’ll need a fire, unless you intend on freezing.”Jaskier shrugged. This was something he could do. He had been building fires since he had left his family’s home nigh on four years ago. He cracked his knuckles and set to, determined to prove to Geralt that he wasn’t a completely useless travel companion. Within a few moments, he had a merry blaze going.“Say, Geralt, have you got any pots? It seems in all the excitement I’ve left mine at the…”Jaskier trailed off when he looked up and saw Geralt, standing next to his now untacked horse, uselessly trying to rub dried blood out of his long hair. It seemed that whoever had hit him had got him on both the front and the back of the head; there was blood everywhere, even running down his neck and into his shirt. The Witcher looked up when Jaskier stopped talking.“In my bags. I’ll bring them in a moment.”“You’ll do no such thing. You’re in a right state. You know, you could have just asked and I would have been more than happy to wash away that blood for you. So come here, and let me get it off, and then you’re going to lie down while I make us something to eat. Unless Witchers don’t need sustenance, either?”Geralt shot Jaskier an absolutely venomous look, but after a few more failed attempts with the cloth, he cursed, bent over his bags to retrieve a set of steel pots, and made his way over to a log by the fire. Jaskier held out his hand, and the Witcher pressed the damp rag into his fingers with another glare, which the bard chose to ignore.“How worried should I be about this? You know, the blood and everything. Should I be bandaging it, or seeking out a healer, or simply leaving it be?”“Leave it. The bleeding’s mostly stopped.”Jaskier nodded, this made fair sense to him, in a twisted sort of way. He mopped away the rest of the blood, not failing to notice that the Witcher didn’t flinch, not once. He wondered if Geralt could feel pain. If the rumours were true, he couldn’t feel anything. But Jaskier had never put much stock in rumours.“I can.”“What?”“Feel pain. I can feel what you’re doing to me right now. I know you were wondering.”“Oh.”For once in his life, Jaskier decided it was best to be quiet. For all his boorish grunting and long silences, the bard was already learning that Geralt was more perceptive than met the eye. Gods knew what else the man noticed and chose not to comment on.“The blood’s mostly gone now. Do you have anything for the pain? You’ve a huge lump on your head, and you’ve just admitted that it hurts.”Geralt shook his head.“It would just slow me down.”“All the same to me. Now, go lie down. I’ve got some bread and jerky and such with me. I can make dinner. You need to rest, regardless of whatever other unnatural healing feats Witchers are capable of.”Geralt brought his knees up closer to his chest and rested his elbow on them, and his chin on his elbows, staring into the crackling fire. He cut quite an intimidating picture, with flecks of blood still splattered across his face and his hair. If Jaskier hadn’t known him (and did he really even know him?), he would have run in the opposite direction. However, after a moment of silent contemplation, the Witcher stood and snatched up his bedroll from his pile of things, and stalked off to a nearby tree. After a moment of rustling, he was still, and Jaskier looked up and allowed himself a small smile when he saw that Geralt was curled up on his side, his eyes drifting shut before snapping back open, the picture of exhausted vigilance.“I’m not going to kill you while you sleep, you know,” he called, sensing the potential cause of Geralt’s wakefulness, “I’ll wake you when dinner’s ready, if you want to sleep. It’s been a long day.”“Hmm.”Geralt rolled over then, but Jaskier could tell from the way he tapped his foot ever so slightly on the ground that he was not asleep. The bard chose to ignore it, for the moment. He hoped Geralt would still sleep at night, though. And even more, he hoped the Witcher didn’t perceive him as a threat, and that it was merely instincts that kept him wakeful and watching.After about twenty minutes, Jaskier had toasted the whole loaf of bread that had been thrown at him at the inn that morning, as well as warmed some jerky to make it a bit more palatable. Deciding it would probably not be the wisest decision to go and shake Geralt right now, he simply called to him, knowing the other man would hear.“I’ve made dinner! If you’re awake.”Geralt rolled over and put a hand to the back of his head. The bard almost went to him when he blinked dizzily a few times, but then he shook his head as though to clear it, and righted himself without any issue. Jaskier offered him up a piece of bread, feeling a bit bemused, not wanting to overstep what appeared to be a very delicate new friendship, but also concerned for the Witcher. Concussions were nothing to be trifled with, and he didn’t want the man to simply keel over and die. “Are you sure you’re alright? I mean, what with taking two hits to the head today and all…concussions can be deadly, you know. And, well, I’d prefer if you didn’t die.”“Not gotten enough material for your songs yet, bard?” Geralt settled back against the log, legs stretched out in front of him, and shot Jaskier an inquisitive glance, as though he was trying to scope out the bard’s motives.“Gods, no! I’m not heartless, despite what you appear to believe. I don’t want you to die because…well…dying isn’t good.”Jaskier flopped his hand limply in the air, and Geralt’s dark eyebrow inched higher up on his forehead. The bard blushed a little. He didn’t find himself at a loss for words often, but he was unsure of what to say to this strange man, who he was finding himself beginning to care about. Surely, such a revelation would alarm Geralt, who seemed to have attachments to nothing and no one but his horse. “You’re right. But I’m not dying. I’ve a headache, that’s all.”“Come off it. I know you’re dizzy. I saw you getting up from your bedroll and wobbling all over the place.”The Witcher quirked an eyebrow and lifted his lips in a half-smirk. Jaskier gulped, and Geralt took another bite of his bread.“I’ll be fine, bard. Better off if you’d stop your incessant chattering.”“Just…just don’t go off and die without even having the good graces to tell me that’s what’s happening first.”“Wasn’t planning on it.”Jaskier settled back, deciding to leave the log to Geralt for the time being, and found his own tree to rest against, watching the sparks from the dying fire rise up into the night. Normally, he would’ve taken this opportunity to work through some progressions on his lute, perhaps come up with a few themes for a new ballad. But, he got the sense that his lute would do nothing but irritate Geralt, and he didn’t particularly fancy being left alone here in the middle of the night. So, Jaskier contented himself with humming under his breath, scribbling thoughts and scraps of verse that drifted through his tired mind down in his notebook. He spent nigh on three hours like this, and when he looked up, the fire was reduced to smouldering embers, shifting and glistening in the dark. It took Jaskier’s eyes a moment to adjust, and when they did, he saw that Geralt had fallen asleep by the fire, head tipped back in a way that looked most uncomfortable. The bard snorted to himself. So much for constant vigilance. Although he supposed he could forgive it; Geralt was likely in more pain than he was letting on. Setting his notebook aside, Jaskier slipped over and made to poke at the fire, hoping to rouse the Witcher without having to touch him.After a few seconds of noisy rustling and unnecessary cursing at the wood, Geralt awoke with a deep inhalation. Jaskier turned and smiled brightly at him, knowing the Witcher would not need time for his eyes to adjust to the darkness. At least they would not if the rumours he had heard were true.“Perhaps it’d be better to sleep in your bed than half tipped over a log by the campfire? You know, cramped necks and all that. You’ve probably got enough on your plate without not being able to turn your head for a week.”“Hmmm.”Geralt leaned forwards to place his elbows on his knees, and for a moment the dying embers caught his eyes, turning them from amber yellow to a deep orange. Jaskier had to shake himself. He would have to work that into a ballad at some point. The Witcher looked up at him, shot him a quizzical glance.“Roach and I will leave at dawn. Best get some sleep if you’re wanting to be well rested enough to accompany us.”Jaskier looked up again, and his heart skipped a beat.“Really?”Geralt answered with an inclination of his head instead of with words, rising to his feet and taking a moment to massage his temples. Clearly, whatever residual headache he was suffering from after their run in with the elves was still paining him. But Jaskier was too happy to worry much. It was better than he had ever expected it to turn out, Geralt asking him to stay by his side. Despite the slightly insensitive way in which he had worded it, it made Jaskier feel, for the first time in a long time, that his skills had worth. That someone could make use of him. Part of the bard wanted to go and wrap the Witcher in his arms, heart pounding from the sheer excitement of it all. But he knew Geralt would not appreciate such a gesture, and settled for rolling out his bedroll near the fire, enough to give Geralt some space. “Night.” Jaskier called it out, shivering deliciously at the way it echoed in the empty space around them. The echoing was something that would have spooked him mere days ago, but now it felt full of possibility, of adventure and delight and the beginning of something new.“Goodnight, bard.”There was a bit more rustling about, presumably as Geralt settled himself into a more comfortable position, and then silence. Not even an audible, even breath. It was unnatural, strange, but Jaskier revelled in it. He took a deep breath, inhaling the chill night air, and wondered at what was yet to come.
        Notes:
          Thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
  Comments
          InterstellarLizard, DaylightNoctiluca, Ryu1412, an_leitheoir_drui, smalld1171, RockinRobin, writerinserepeat, chimongra, Shirk, laeine, QueenBiloci, AngeleMM77500, OhYeMrKnobs, nanazlovese, lucifersloveglove, baxty_154, EsElster, aRealVadim, Abbeyisshort, awaiting, InvisiJenkins, Brywolf, susanpr, KattenFindus, alysm_and_unrest, DeadmanHorizon, blue_calico, werebunny131, Advil, Brinady, KRML, Lorien, Krisseli88, delicaterenegade, Maria_of_the_cedars, JadeJohanson, kalessinsdaughter, HellsLittleLiar, asenath_waite, hikawa_kita, Trowa, Esge, swingrlm, analee_marie, melislostinthestars, nlong, and More_familiar_wilds
             as well as 
          26 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
