      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               Gen
              Fandom:
               Katekyou Hitman Reborn!
              Characters:
               Sawada TsunayoshiHibari KyouyaSawada IemitsuSawada NanaTimoteo VongolaKusakabe TetsuyaGokudera HayatoYamamoto TakeshiYamamoto TsuyoshiRokudou MukuroDokuro ChromeSasagawa KyoukoSasagawa RyouheiLambo BovinoRebornVariaSawada Ienari
              Additional Tags:
               Alternate UniverseLanguageViolenceNana!BashingTwin!ficGenius-but-hopefully-not-over-the-top!TsunaOCs - FreeformDon't copy to another site
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2013-02-18Updated:2013-05-31Words:43309Chapters:4/?Comments:259Kudos:2949Bookmarks:1132Hits:47414
      To That Faraway Sky
      cywscross
      Chapter 3
        Notes:
          Disclaimer: I do not own anything from Katekyo Hitman Reborn.Iemitsu wouldn't know all that much about what’s going on at home and the rift between his family since I don’t think even canon Nana really tells him anything.  He doesn’t call home enough or long enough for Nana to tell him anything either, and this Nana would also be the type to tell Iemitsu all the good things about Nari, etc, but not really say anything about Tsuna.No meetings between Tsuna and the rest of the Hibari family (yet).  Might fit that in later on if I can tie it into the fic without making it seem as if I just dropped them into the plot like a brick.And people, for the last time, there are NO PAIRINGS.  Please read the ANs and warnings.  I don’t put them there to take up space.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
                   “Happy eleventh birthday, Kyouya-senpai!”  Tsuna said earnestly, thrusting a gift-wrapped package into the prefect’s hands.                 Kyouya adjusted the strap of his bag over his shoulder with one hand, a tinge of genuine surprise entering his expression.  Tsuna didn't know why.  Did the prefect think he wouldn't get him anything?                 A minute later, Kyouya was pulling out a button-up coat, patterned with wide stripes of two different shades of purple.  It was light but warm, and even had a collar to block the wind if necessary.                 “You never wear anything except your school uniform when you go out,” Tsuna rushed to clarify his choice.  “Or that black jacket which is going to get too small for you soon anyway.  Plus, this one matches your flames.”                 He grew worried when Kyouya only stared at the jacket, one thumb brushing against the inside of the collar where his initials had been sewn on in cursive black.  “Senpai?  Er, if you don’t like it, I still have the receipt-”                 He fell silent when a hand dropped on his head and ruffled his hair in an almost frighteningly affectionate gesture.  That was a first.                 “I like it,” Kyouya stated curtly, withdrawing to fold up the coat again.  “Thank you.” He said nothing more, no elaborate show of thanks or happy grins, but Tsuna relaxed and grinned for the both of them.                 Tsuna wasn’t surprised when Kyouya met him for lunch the next day sporting the new coat. 
  {3}
                 “Your time’s over, Shiraishi.  Just hand Shuurai-gumi over to us-”                 “Over or not, it’s still ten years too early for you to even think about taking me on.  You’ll pay for this.”                 Tsuna hadn't meant to stumble onto the showdown in front of him but he was beginning to realize that he had a knack for finding trouble without meaning to.  That, or trouble just seemed to find him.                 Besides, he had only been walking to school.  It wasn't his fault that the yakuza had decided to have their altercation on one of the side streets Tsuna usually passed by.                 “Ah, but that’s the thing, Shiraishi.  Aniki himself ordered this so I really don’t think we’ll be the ones paying.”                 “Bullshit.  Shin would never-”                 “That’s the thing about you, Shiraishi – you’re too naive.  For all your talk, you still believe Aniki to be that little weakling who used to follow you around-”                 “Shin was never a weakling.  He took over Shuurai-gumi to change it.”                 “And he has.  We’ve become more powerful, and he’s finally stepping out of your shadow and taking his rightful place as our boss.  You’re just holding him back by making alliances with the Skylark and stopping us from roughing up the civilians.  We’re yakuza!  We need to let them know who’s in charge!”                 “Enough talk.  Shiraishi, for the sake of old times, if you swear to leave Shuurai-gumi and never return, we’ll leave you alone.  You can even stay in Namimori.”                 “Ha!  Make terms after you’ve won, bastards!”                 And even Tsuna, who was used to watching Kyouya fight, was impressed with the beat down that Shiraishi promptly handed out, a white blur whirling between the thirty yakuza sent to take him out.                 Twenty-seven unconscious bodies later, Tsuna was weighing the pros and cons of stepping in to help.  Shiraishi was good – the bruised and bloodied bodies attested to that – but he had also been injured and the last three were circling Shiraishi like coyotes cornering their prey.                 It made Tsuna just a bit sick that people who were supposed to stick together could so easily turn on each other like this.                 “Give up, Shiraishi,” One of the three yakuza jeered, brass knuckles gleaming under the sunlight.  “You don’t stand a chance.”                 Shiraishi only wiped carelessly at a trickle of blood coming from a gash on his forehead.  “You talk too much, Yosai.  Let’s finish this.  I’ve got an appointment with our dear boss to get to.”                 Two of the yakuza sneered and lunged forward with twin shouts.  Shiraishi twisted out of the way of an oncoming fist and sank a knee into the left one’s stomach with enough force to floor him for good. He staggered a step to the side when the one on the right managed to get a solid hit against Shiraishi’s ribs, but the Second – now former – whirled and delivered a jaw-breaking uppercut to his assailant. It dropped the yakuza like a sack of potatoes. It also left Shiraishi’s back wide open. Tsuna acted before he could really stop and think about it.  He was nothing if not prepared so while the battle had been going on, he had quickly calculated the strength of someone’s clothesline currently attached to the slim tree branch above his head, the length of said clothesline that extended across the nearby house’s yard, the backlash of the taut clothesline that would sweep a wide path in the air when suddenly released, and the numerous clothes that would rain down right where the attacking yakuza would be... Tsuna reached up and cut the clothesline with a sharp rock. ...now. In mid-leap, the yakuza yelped when multi-coloured shirts caught him full in the face.  His arms flailed and the knife in his hand clattered uselessly to the ground as he went down in a tangle of clothes and limbs. It also gave Shiraishi plenty of time to spin on his heel and take the man down with a swift kick to his temple. Tsuna winced.  He hoped the yakuza wasn't dead, no matter what he’d done. And then blue eyes sliced across the street, obviously searching for the unknown source of assistance, and without pausing, Tsuna hastily ducked out of sight and hurried away.  He didn't particularly want to get involved, and it was enough to know that Shiraishi was safe now. Besides, if he was late for school again, Kyouya would flip out. 
  {3}
                 Tsuna stifled another sigh as he propped his head up with one hand and watched the game below.  It figured that one of the few times that Nana didn't forget him, it would be to take him to one of Nari’s soccer games.  He didn't even like soccer.                 Though even Tsuna could see how good Nari was – his brother certainly wasn't captain based on popularity alone.                 Nari zipped across the field, ball practically glued to his feet as he cut sharply between his opponents.  He wasn't a ball hog either, passing to his teammates when they were open and shouting formations with an authoritative self-assurance that made him seem older than his age, not to mention ensured the instant obedience of his entire team.                 The crowd erupted into cheers when Nari weaved into open space and intercepted a pass between two of the opposing team members before rotating and firing the ball past the goalkeeper, the kick so strong that it made the soccer ball look like a mere blur of black-and-white.                 The game ended with a score of 5-2, giving Namimori Elementary the win.  Tsuna only half-listened to Nana’s bubbly praise as they made their way down to the celebrating team with the other families.                 “Na-kun, you were amazing!”  Nana cooed when Nari extracted himself from the back-slapping and congratulations of his teammates.                 Nari grinned at her, bright-eyed and brilliant and still running on an adrenaline high, and for a second, Tsuna felt a sting of sheer nostalgia because how many years had it been since he had last seen his brother look this happy with Tsuna in the vicinity?                 He blinked, and the expression was gone, replaced by the much more familiar scorn of his eight-year-old twin when the blond registered that Tsuna was standing in front of him.                 “Bet you couldn't have even dribbled the ball halfway across the field, Dame-Tsuna,” Nari jeered as Nana swept off to buy a bottle of water for him.                 Tsuna clung on to the untainted happiness he had caught a glimpse of for a fraction of a second and offered a strangled smile.  “You did really well, Nari.”                 “Of course I did,” Nari snapped patronizingly.  “I’m not the failure here.  Why are you even at my soccer game anyway?  Being seen with you is an embarrassment.”                 Tsuna’s jaw tightened as his temper flared.  “Ever thought I might be embarrassed to be seen with you?”                 An ugly sneer instantly twisted Nari’s features.  “You should be grateful that I even talk to you, Dame-Tsuna!  You’re nothing by yourself!  God, why did I have to be born with you for a brother?  It would’ve been so much better if I had been an only child!”                 Tsuna’s right hand balled into a fist and made an aborted movement forward before he could stop it completely.  No, he couldn't hit Nari.  This was still his brother.                               Nari saw it and scoffed, kicking at a stone on the ground.  Tsuna sidestepped it before it could hit him.  At least Nari couldn't hurt him with everyone watching. “Get lost, Dame-Tsuna,” Nari spat out.  “Nobody wants you around.  In fact, I wish you’d just do me a favour and disappear.”                 With that said, Nari marched away, pausing only to exchange a few words with Nana and take the water from her before returning to his friends.  Nana lingered on the side, smiling happily as she stared at Nari.                 Tsuna watched them both for a long minute and then turned on his heel and left.  He had better things to do with his time. 
  {3}
                 “Who are you?”                 “None of your business, kid.”                 “Hey, you can’t talk to me like that!  Besides this is my house!”                 “And I'm not standing in your house, am I?  Or even your lawn.”                 “You’re standing out front and you look suspicious.  I mean look at your clothes!  Are you some homeless guy?  Go stand somewhere else!”                 “Geez, brat, rude much?”                 “Don't call me brat!  And I’m not rude; you’re the one trespassing.  Go away!”                 “The street isn’t yours, brat.  Heck, are you sure you live at this house?”                 Tsuna lifted his book from his face, stirring from his half-doze as he stared up at the sky.  He was lying on the living room floor and the front porch doors were opened to let in the summer breeze so he could hear Nari quite well.                 The other voice... Wasn’t the other voice-                 He sat up, clapping his book shut and heading outside, pausing only long enough to slip a pair of sandals on.                 “Of course I’m sure!  Beat it!”                 Tsuna jogged through the front gate and turned just in time to see Nari stomp forward and attempt to shove the familiar white-haired man backwards.                 “Ienari!”  Tsuna barked, a surge of disgusted fury strengthening his voice and stopping Nari dead in his tracks.  “What do you think you’re doing?!”                 Unfortunately, Nari only froze for a few heartbeats before his brain kicked in again and he spun around, a sneer already etched on his face.  “What’s it to you, Dame-Tsuna?  I can do whatever I want!”                 Tsuna narrowed his eyes.  “One day, Nari, you’re going to learn that you really, really can’t.  Now get back in the house.”                 Nari crossed his arms defiantly.  “Don’t order me around, loser!  Mom put me in charge-”                 “I said, get back in the house!”  Tsuna snapped, not in any mood for humouring Nari, especially when he caught a glimpse of crimson peeking out from Shiraishi’s jacket.  It was too hot for jackets in the first place.  “I don’t particularly care if Mom put God in charge!  Go inside!  Now!”                 Perhaps it was because Tsuna had never raised his voice to Nari before, or to anyone else for that matter, but the blond actually listened.  Not without reluctance of course, and if looks could kill, Tsuna would’ve been struck dead on the spot, but Nari went.                 “I’ll tell Mom!”  Nari spat out, face red with rage, as he disappeared into the house.                 Tsuna stared after him for a moment.  He doubted this would work twice.  With a sigh, he rubbed a hand over his forehead.  Handling Nari was just asking for a headache.                 And then he remembered the blood, and now that there was no brother to distract him, he could actually smell a weak tang of copper in the air.                 “Shiraishi-san!”  Tsuna hurried forward, hands hovering uncertainly over the man’s jacket before latching on to a hand instead.  “Come on, I’ll help you patch that up.  Were you waiting outside?  You could've just rung the doorbell.”                 “And scare whoever answered looking like this?”  Shiraishi’s voice held a shadow of sardonic humour.  “...Was that your brother?  You’re nothing alike.”                 “Hmm?”  Tsuna led the yakuza into his front yard and sat him down on the front porch.  “Yes, that was Nari.  Sorry about him.  Now wait here – I’ll be right back.”                 He scampered off into the house and grabbed the first-aid kit from the bathroom before zooming back to Shiraishi’s side.                 “Kid, you are something else,” Shiraishi remarked as Tsuna tugged off the man’s jacket and shirt, making a face at the messily bandaged gash that was revealed.  He spotted bruises marring the yakuza’s skin and a cut through a hole in Shiraishi’s faded blue jeans, but he couldn't really do anything for the former and the latter was shallow and not bleeding.  The injury at his abdomen was the worst one. “Has it occurred to you that I'm a criminal?”                 “Well you tracked me down for a reason,” Tsuna pointed out matter-of-factly as he began peeling off the dirty bandages.  “So I might as well patch you up while you talk.  And what kind of yakuza are you?  Shouldn't you have better knowledge of first-aid?”                 “You’re a... what, eight-year-old?  Shouldn't you have less knowledge of first-aid?”  Shiraishi countered, watching Tsuna intently as he cleaned out the wound.                 “Kyouya-senpai’s my best friend,” Tsuna deadpanned.  “He’s good, but he still gets hurt sometimes.”                 Silence fell between them for a while, neither speaking until Tsuna had finished wrapping a new set of bandages around Shiraishi’s abdomen.                 “I’m incinerating this shirt,” Tsuna said determinedly, picking up the stained white shirt that Shiraishi had discarded.  “You’ll just have to find another one.”                 A huff of laughter answered him before the yakuza opened the duffel bag he had been carrying and withdrew a clean shirt, also a button-up white short-sleeve.  “Happy?”                 “Somewhat,” Tsuna replied loftily, gathering up the kit and garbage.  When he returned, Shiraishi was still on his porch, staring out across the lawn without really seeing anything.                 Tsuna said nothing, only taking a seat beside him and waiting patiently for the yakuza to speak.                 “That’s twice I owe you now,” Shiraishi said at last, not looking at Tsuna.  “Although I'm afraid Shuurai-gumi won’t be an option anymore if you ever need manpower.”                 “I won’t need manpower,” Tsuna slanted an assessing glance at the yakuza.  “...So you saw me after all.”                 “Don’t know why you ran,” Shiraishi finally looked at him, blue eyes glittering.  “I wouldn't have hurt you.”                 “I know,” Tsuna conceded.  “But I didn't want to get involved.  I just wanted to make sure you were okay.”                 Shiraishi continued studying him like Tsuna was an exceptionally fascinating specimen of some kind.  “You’re a weird kid, you know that?”                 Tsuna scowled back at him, receiving a faint smirk in return.  He settled for ignoring Shiraishi and took in the duffel bag instead.  “Are... Are you leaving?”                 “Can’t exactly stay here anymore,” Shiraishi fingered the bruise marring one of his cheekbones.  “Had it out with my- with Shin.  We beat each other up and then I got the hell outta there when he called for backup.”                 “So they won’t let you just stay in Namimori anymore?”  Tsuna enquired.                 Shiraishi looked almost smug for a moment.  “Best thing about being the second-in-command – I was in charge of most of the businesses we ran, legal and illegal.  Shin delegated most of the stocks and investments we had to me as well.  Shuurai-gumi’s gonna suffer enough without me around to manage all that, but I also took the liberty of destroying most of those income sources before I left.  Shuurai-gumi’s as good as crippled now – they’ll never fully recover.  Course, that also puts a target on my head so I’m skipping town while I still have legs to skip out on.”                 A dark cast fell over Shiraishi’s expression again.  Tsuna wracked his mind for something to say, but for all the languages he knew, he couldn't find anything to make this better.  He had a feeling that Shiraishi and this ‘Shin’ person had been friends once upon a time, perhaps childhood friends, but the latter had betrayed the former and Shiraishi was now being chased out of town after tearing down the yakuza syndicate that Shiriashi clearly disapproved of. Tsuna didn't truly know the circumstances though, and it felt like an intrusion of privacy and just... not enough to say things like ‘I understand’ or ‘I’m sorry’ or other trivial platitudes that wouldn't even begin healing the wound left by the betrayal still weighing Shiraishi down.                 Tsuna didn't even want to think about Kyouya ever betraying him, and Tsuna would sooner throw himself off a bridge before he so much as considered betraying the prefect.  And that was how he felt after less than two years of friendship.  Shiraishi must feel terrible.                 He bit his lip, and then reached out and curled his fingers around one of the man’s callused hands.  The knuckles were scratched and some of the skin had been split open but Tsuna paid it no mind.  He stared straight ahead and offered what little comfort he could provide to the near-stranger.  He knew better than anyone that just having someone there was far better than nothing at all.                 Shiraishi’s hand twitched under his but the man didn't pull away and they sat in a comfortable silence for a long while, neither saying a word until the first streaks of sunset splashed across the sky, setting the horizon aflame.                 Shiraishi stirred and Tsuna withdrew, slipping off the porch and shaking out the stiffness in his muscles.  When he turned around, the yakuza – ex-yakuza now – was staring at him with that same strange expression he had been wearing back in the warehouse months earlier.                 “You’re a weird kid,” Shiraishi repeated, standing up as well.  He looked bemused now but he smiled and ruffled Tsuna’s hair in a fond gesture.  “Thanks, Tsunayoshi.  The number I gave you is private – no one else knows it – so if you ever need anything, just give me a call.  Forget the address though – it’s useless now.”                 Tsuna nodded and walked the man to the front gate, speedily digging into his pockets and pulling out a pen and notepaper.  “Be careful.  If you ever need anything, you can call me too.  I know I’m just eight but I can be very resourceful.”                 For the first time since Tsuna had met him, Shiraishi’s eyes softened and the melancholy that had dulled them for so long faded briefly.  The man accepted the cell number with a nod.                 “We’ll see each other again,” Shiraishi predicted as he made to turn away, bag slung haphazardly over one shoulder.  A fleeting grin crossed his face.  “Or maybe you’ll form a yakuza group when you grow up and I’ll repay you by joining it.”                 Tsuna scoffed.  “As if I’d ever.  How troublesome.”                 Shiraishi laughed this time, quiet but genuine.  “Well, I’ll promise anyway.  If you ever go and create an organization of any sort, criminal or otherwise, I promise I’ll come back and join it.”                 As Tsuna waved goodbye to the white-haired man, not returning inside until Shiraishi was out of sight, he mulled over the ex-yakuza’s words.                 Creating an organization?  Me?  For what purpose?  He snorted, shaking his head.  As if. 
  {3}
                 “Shuurai-gumi’s fallen,” Kyouya reported as they snacked on their respective ice-creams under one of the trees in the park.  “And it seems Shiraishi’s gone.”                 Tsuna said nothing, hiding a smile behind his ice-cream.                 Kyouya eyed him critically.  “Did you have a hand in it?”                 “Of course not!”  Tsuna protested.  “How would I go about taking down a yakuza group?  Shiraishi-san did it, not me.”                 Kyouya arched an eyebrow that silently demanded answers.                 Tsuna pouted.  “From what I gathered, there was internal conflict in Shuurai-gumi.  That Shin guy-”                 “Muraoka Shinzou,” Kyouya provided helpfully.  “Head of Shuurai-gumi.”                 “Yeah, him,” Tsuna nodded.  “He sent some of his people to get rid of Shiraishi-san because they all thought he was holding their boss back, including the boss, but Shiraishi-san kicked their asses and destroyed their businesses.  That’s why he’s left town though.  He can’t stay here anymore.”                 Kyouya snorted.  “Yakuza.  The only ones more unruly are the mafia and the Triads.”                 Tsuna shrugged, holding back a snicker at the long-suffering look on Kyouya’s face.  “I don’t know, Senpai.  I’ve met worse people than Shiraishi-san.”                 Kyouya shook his head and polished off the rest of his cone.  “Only you could make friends with yakuza, Tsunayoshi.”                 Tsuna grinned unrepentantly. 
  ~9 Years Old~
                 “My dad’s home for the month,” Tsuna revealed as Kyouya guided him through the delivery of an arm pin that would disarm a knife-wielding opponent.                 Kyouya drew Tsuna’s arm forward even as he glanced up.  “That long?  Vongola must be running out of people to kill.”                 Tsuna could practically see the sarcasm dripping off the prefect’s voice.  His mouth twitched.                 “I found something new though,” He persisted.  “I haven’t stopped running searches on Vongola through the fake construction company.  I finally found a small hole in their security network yesterday that didn't bounce me right back out.  I managed to copy a few things connected to my dad’s name before I had to pull out or they’d catch me.”                 Tsuna paused and executed a watered-down kama kote on Kyouya that earned a nod of approval from the prefect.                 “So,” Tsuna caught the water bottle Kyouya tossed at him.  “What is CEDEF?”                 Kyouya frowned, taking a gulp of water from his own bottle.  “I don’t know the Italian but it translates to the External Advisors of the Family.  Your father is part of CEDEF?”                 “Looks like,” Tsuna nodded, brow furrowing in thought.  “From what I got, he’s supposed to be the leader.”                 Kyouya coughed, hastily lowering his water.  Tsuna tilted his head.  “Is that really important?”                 Kyouya motioned for him to sit down on the porch as the prefect leaned against one of the wooden beams.  “I do not know a lot, but the general idea is that CEDEF is a secret intelligence organization independent from the Vongola.  They remain outside the direct control of the main Family, and hold very little power during times of peace, but I hear that they have as much voting power as the Vongola Boss when choosing their Family’s next boss.  If the Boss and the leader of the CEDEF disagree on who the heir will be, the CEDEF leader has the power to recommend their own candidate.  I think the two candidates then fight over the title, and whoever wins will become heir.” Tsuna soaked the information in, rolling onto his back to stare up at the sky. “It makes sense, actually,” Kyouya remarked.  “CEDEF’s headquarters is supposed to be disguised as an ordinary business’ building.  Construction works.” “Huh,” Tsuna scrubbed a hand over his face.  “Not much of a disguise if they’ve got Vongola scrawled across the company.” “Vongola is famous in the underworld and amongst some of the law enforcements but ordinary people wouldn't know of them,” Kyouya corrected, tossing his towel aside and taking a seat as well. Tsuna hummed noncommittally at this.  “Dad’s pretty important though.  No wonder he’s never home.” Kyouya scoffed but didn't comment.  It was the only indication that meant that Iemitsu ranked a few levels above Nana and Nari in the prefect’s book. A comfortable silence fell between them as Tsuna returned his gaze to the sky.  It was very clear today, with only a smatter of white clouds dispersed across it like flecks of white paint splashed over a blue canvas.                 “You ever thought about leaving Namimori, Kyouya-senpai?”  Tsuna asked, feeling introspective all of a sudden.                 Kyouya slanted a sidelong look at him as he leaned back on his hands.  “Namimori is my home.”                 Tsuna hummed.  “What about for university or something?  Or a job that might take you overseas?”                 Kyouya was quiet for several seconds.  “I will leave for those, but I’ll always return to Namimori.  Nothing could make me leave permanently.  ...What about you?”                 Tsuna draped an arm over his eyes.  “Well, so long as you’re around, Namimori’s... not that bad.” 
  {3}
                 “You’re very quiet nowadays, Tsuna,” Iemitsu said as he sat on the edge of Tsuna’s bed, smoothing down the blanket as Tsuna lied down.                 Tsuna glanced up at him.  “Really?  I don’t think I've been any different.”                 Iemitsu smiled but there was a troubled edge to it.  “You barely talk at all over meals.  You stay out a lot too.”                 Tsuna reviewed the past two weeks.  It took a moment for him to realize what Iemitsu was seeing.  For Tsuna, it was no different than what he’d been doing for the past three or so years, but for his dad who hadn't seen him since he was six, it probably seemed as if Tsuna was avoiding the house like the plague and distancing himself as much as possible from the rest of the family.                 “Is it me?”                 Tsuna’s head jerked up.  Iemitsu looked crestfallen.                 “You’re still angry with Papa, aren’t you?”  The blond guessed.                 Tsuna shook his head fervently.  “Dad, I can’t hold grudges that long.  It’s not you.  I just... I like spending time with Kyouya-senpai, and Mom and Nari have always been close so it probably just seems like I sort of fade into the background.”                 Iemitsu sighed but he at least seemed to believe Tsuna about not being angry anymore.                 “If you say so, Tsuna,” His father stood and pulled up the covers.  “But you know you can tell me anything, right?  Papa might not be home much but he still loves both his boys very much.” Tsuna hid a wistful smile and nodded instead.  Somehow, he couldn't quite believe his father’s words. “Sweet dreams then,” Iemitsu smiled, the corners of his eyes crinkling with the expression.  “I’ll see you in the morning.”                 “Goodnight, Dad,” Tsuna returned, and for a single breath, as Iemitsu headed for the door, the part of Tsuna that was neither genius nor forced to grow up in a household that more or less neglected him – the child part – wanted to call his father back, tell the man that Nari hated him and Nana didn't care about him, and that the only person Tsuna honestly considered family wasn't even related by blood.                 But he didn't, because he knew that Iemitsu loved Nana more than anything and loved Nari as much as Tsuna if not more.  There was no point making claims that wouldn't be believed anyway. 
  {3}
“This is Kusakabe Tetsuya,” Kyouya introduced formally.  “He’s the cousin I mentioned.  He’ll be transferring into Namimori Middle in September.”                 Tsuna stared from one boy to the other as he shook hands with the rather tall twelve-year-old wearing gelled-back hair and a disconcertingly self-conscious look that didn't seem to belong on the already maturing features. When Kyouya had told him of a family member’s imminent arrival, Tsuna had pictured another Kyouya.                 “Nice to meet you,” Tsuna offered a friendly smile.  “I hope you don’t mind me saying – you two don’t look alike at all.”                 “We both have black hair,” Kyouya pointed out when Kusakabe didn't seem to know what to say.                 “Two-thirds of Japan’s population has black hair,” Tsuna retorted.                 Kyouya grunted.  “We’re fourth cousins.”                 Ah.  So perhaps they were raised differently as well. Tsuna looked up at Kusakabe again and asked cheerfully, “So where are you from anyway?  Overseas?  Are you going to live with Kyouya-senpai?  Wait, Senpai already said you were.  Then can you fight like Kyouya-senpai?  You’re not going to go around biting people to death as well, are you?”                 The rapid-fire questions and Tsuna’s refusal to let any awkwardness invade the space around them went a long way in settling Kusakabe, and after a few uncertain glances in Kyouya’s direction (it wasn't hard for Tsuna to pick up the fact that Kusakabe seemed to automatically defer to Kyouya), the twelve-year-old was soon answering Tsuna with a small smile on his face and a relieved air about him.
  ~10 Years Old~
                 “G’mornin’, Kyouya-senpai, Tetsu-senpai,” Tsuna yawned as he joined them at the street corner.   He almost crashed into a stop sign before Kyouya reached out and yanked him back.  “Oops.”                 “Did you stay up all night?”  Tetsuya enquired as they crossed the street.                 “Nari wouldn't stop watching movies in his room,” Tsuna snapped touchily.  “He’s got a dentist’s appointment today so he doesn't have school.”                 “And your mom lets him?”  Tetsuya asked dubiously.  The middle-schooler still wasn't quite used to the Sawada family’s tendencies.                 “His mother lets the pathetic herbivore do anything,” Kyouya groused, sounding personally insulted.  “I will be sure to bite him to death tomorrow.”                 They split up when they reached Namimori Elementary, with Tetsuya waving goodbye and heading for Namimori Middle one block down.  The twelve-year-old was in his first year of middle school while Kyouya would be joining him in the coming year and Tsuna in another two, though the prefect had already wormed his way into Namimori Middle’s administration, helping Tetsuya set up the beginnings of a disciplinary committee fully approved of by the principal and school board.  In Tsuna’s opinion, the committee was going to become a force to be reckoned with one day – the strike-terror-in-the-hearts-of-herbivores-everywhere sort.                 As they headed inside, Tsuna paused at the front doors, turning with a frown to scan the courtyard.                 “What’s wrong?”  Kyouya prompted from his left.                 Tsuna shook his head.  “It’s nothing.  I just felt a bit uneasy all of a sudden.  Let’s go.”                 The alarm bells in his head continued to ring though, and the prickly discomfort remained with him throughout the rest of the day. 
  {3}
                 Nari didn't think he had ever... hated someone as much as he did Tsuna.  It didn't matter that Tsuna was his brother, his twin – the brunet was a thorn in his side, always messing up and being a loser and still so happy about his life in general.  There were those times that Tsuna would pretend to be smart too, muttering to himself in another language and piling stacks of books written in foreign languages in front of him – as if Dame-Tsuna could really read them. Their mother clearly didn't care about Tsuna, and their father liked Nari better because Nari was the one with the special power, the one who would be someone powerful someday, the one who was special.                 Tsuna was nothing, and for a while, Nari had thought that that would be enough to push his brother into the corner he belonged in.  He had seen the hopeless hurt on his twin’s face every time their mother called him useless or Nari kicked him down.                 It wasn't like that anymore.                 Nari knew what had changed – that psychotic dog who bit people to death and was allowed to by the teachers, the one who always paid him back tenfold if there was so much as a scratch on Tsuna, had deemed the pathetic waste of space as someone worth knowing.                 What did Hibari see in Nari’s brother anyway?  Nari was so much better and yet the prefect honestly seemed to hate his very existence.  Tsuna was weak and stupid and not worth anyone’s time of day.  The other kids shunned him and laughed at him and the teachers had all given up on him.  He was an embarrassment to Nari, a shameful burden because his twin just failed at everything yet still received attention from their dad.  Iemitsu was away so much – why did he insist on wasting precious time on Tsuna whenever he came home? And someone as strong as Hibari Kyouya had all but glued himself to Tsuna’s side.  It had gotten to the point where Nari had been forced to stay away from Tsuna for the most part, not wanting to get beaten up again for putting Tsuna in his place.                 Not anymore though.  Nari wasn't going to stand being pushed around anymore.  Tsuna was making his life miserable and his brother would pay for it.                 Taking a deep breath to steady the wired anticipation in his gut, he kept an ear out for his mother who was downstairs vacuuming the living room and quickly picked his brother’s bedroom door, entering on silent footsteps.                 It had taken a while, but he had managed to convince an older student to sell one of Nari’s friends a lighter and a cigarette, who had then given it to Nari, and his mom had rubbing alcohol in the house.  He had been careful to wipe his fingerprints from them.                 Tsuna was a light sleeper though so he’d have to plant the alcohol now, along with an air freshener and maybe an open window so the smell, however slight, wouldn't linger.                 Meticulously, he poured the bottle of rubbing alcohol under Tsuna’s bed.  Nari’s accuracy was very good – he’d be able to flick a lit cigarette close enough to the alcohol to cause a reaction from the doorway.                 Once the bottle was empty, the window opened, and an air freshener plugged into the socket, Nari tiptoed out again, locking the door once more.                 He was doing everyone, especially himself, a favour.  Their mom wouldn't have to put up with a useless son, their dad would have more time for Nari, and Nari wouldn't have to live with such a disgrace.                 Everyone won. 
  {3}
                 “You sure you’re alright, Tsuna-san?”  Tetsuya asked as Tsuna was about to turn down his street.  No matter what Tsuna had said, the older student had gotten it into his head that he was to be respected on the same level as Kyouya and absolutely refused to drop the honorific.  It had been rather perturbing at first but Tsuna had had a hard enough time persuading Tetsuya to refer to himself and Kyouya by their first names so he had relented in the end.  Tsuna had eventually gotten used to it.                 “I’m fine,” Tsuna smiled and waved at both of them.  “I guess the lack of sleep is really getting to me.  I’ll see you tomorrow.”                 Kyouya narrowed his eyes at Tsuna but relented after a long second, and the three parted ways once more.                 The unsettling feeling stayed with Tsuna even when he was getting ready for bed that night.  Running a frustrated hand through his hair, he huffed and climbed into bed.  Some sleep might make it go away, or maybe he was coming down with something.                 Over the next hour, he drifted in and out of consciousness, and when he finally did fall asleep, it was agitated at best, fuzzy voices that he couldn't quite make out buzzing in his ears as he dreamed of darkness and danger and he was running because something was chasing him but he couldn't get anywhere because his feet sank with each step and that something was dragging him downdowndown-                 Tsuna jerked awake, gasping for breath, only to choke in a lungful of thick vapour that clogged his throat and clouded his brain and what was going on-                 GET OUT!  His mind screamed, and Tsuna’s body obeyed without question.                 He lunged for the door, frantically throwing it open and diving out into the hall just in time as a minor explosion tore out a chunk of his bed and a tongue of fire burst from under it, setting the sheets on fire in the blink of an eye.  The tail-end of the explosion caught Tsuna’s heels, raking a searing line up his left calf as he was lifted off his feet and tossed into the opposite wall.                 Stunned, he barely heard Nana’s door slam open and her alarmed exclamation.                 By the time Tsuna managed to clear the fog from his mind, the police and fire department was outside, he was outside, a doctor was checking him over, and Nari was standing off to the left with Nana’s arms around him as his twin whimpered fearfully.                 Tsuna was the only one who saw Nari’s hateful gaze aimed at him.                 “You almost killed me,” Tsuna whispered, horrified.  “What the hell did I ever do to you?”                 “Please don’t talk just yet,” The doctor instructed, evidently not hearing him above the wailing sirens and amalgam of voices.  “Take slow, deep breaths.  There shouldn't be any lasting damage but I want to be certain.  An overnight stay at the hospital would be best.”                 “Is that necessary?”  Nana spoke up, still patting Nari on the shoulder.  “You said Tsu-kun hasn’t breathed in much of the fumes, and Na-kun tells me that Tsu-kun has been playing with a lighter lately.  If there’s no lasting damage, he shouldn't be comforted for something that is his fault.  It will cost enough money to repair the house.”                 Tsuna felt like he couldn't breathe.  So that was it then.  Solid proof that Nana really didn't care about him, taking Nari’s word without even talking to Tsuna first.                 “Ma’am,” The doctor was saying, and if Tsuna didn't feel like someone had hit him over the head with a club, he would’ve caught the slight trace of disbelief in the man’s voice.  “I really think it would be best to take him to the hospital.”                 Before Nana could object again, Tsuna raised his head.                 “It’s fine,” He said quietly, inwardly cringing at the gravelly tone his voice had taken on.  “Thank you, but I’m alright.”                 The doctor looked taken aback.  “Kid, I don’t think-”                 “Even Tsu-kun says it’s alright,” Nana interjected, already ushering Na-kun to the car.  “Now I believe that’s enough excitement for tonight.  Na-kun still needs to go to school tomorrow.  We will stay at a nearby hotel until we can return.  Come along, Tsu-kun.”                 Tsuna slid listlessly onto his feet, barely feeling the throbbing pain in his leg.                 “Kid-” The doctor looked torn, glancing between Tsuna and his mother.                 Tsuna sketched a polite bow.  “Thank you for treating me, sir.  Goodnight.”                 And without waiting for a reply, he limped after his family, a family that Tsuna wished right then and there, with all his heart, wasn't his family at all. 
  {3}
                 “What happened?”  Kyouya demanded the second Tsuna limped through the front doors of Namimori Elementary.  School had already started so Tsuna had been hoping that the prefect would’ve already gone to class.                 This obviously wasn't the case.                 “Nothing,” He muttered, clearing his throat.  He opened his locker and grabbed the shoes inside.  “Shouldn't you be in class?”                 “The last two times you didn't show up, I found you half-drowned by the river and abducted by yakuza,” Kyouya snapped back.  “Now what. Happened.”                 “I said nothing!”  Tsuna barked, and then coughed, his throat grating uncomfortably when he tried to raise his voice.                 Next thing he knew, Kyouya had knocked his legs out from under him, sending him sprawling to the ground, and before Tsuna could even think about resisting, the prefect had Tsuna pinned with one hand on his right knee as the other jerked up his left pant leg.                 “Kyouya!”  Tsuna cried out, but he was too tired to fight, too tired to lie, too tired to explain, and he ended up slumping against the lockers instead.                 Kyouya stared at the white bandages wrapped around his leg.  When he spoke, even Tsuna tensed at the utterly detached but potent wrath in the prefect’s voice.                 “I will kill him.”                 Tsuna stared.  “You don’t even know it was Nari.”                 Despite the sheer rage that seemed to leech most of the colour from Kyouya’s face, leaving slate-grey eyes that spoke of murder, the prefect’s fingers were gentle as they probed the reddened skin peeking out from the bandages.                 “You just confirmed it,” Kyouya pointed out calmly.  “What happened?  And don’t tell me ‘nothing’.”                 Tsuna swallowed, bitterness welling up like bile.  “...Nari tried to- He tried to hurt me.”                 Kyouya studied him, always far too perceptive for a twelve-year-old.                 “He tried to kill you,” The prefect finally gauged.  “He’s hurt you before.  This was worse.  He tried to kill you, and since he’s sitting in class right now, I’ll assume that woman either believes whatever happened to be an accident or your fault.”                 Tsuna crumpled into himself.  “I don’t know what I did wrong, Senpai.  Maybe- Maybe I should’ve done my best all these years?  Showed how smart I was?  Or-”                 “That pathetic cockroach is ruled by jealousy,” Kyouya spat out venomously.  “He would’ve been just as bad if you had shown your academic prowess, if not worse.  The fault lies with him and his mother; not you.”                 Kyouya never said ‘your’ mother anymore.  Tsuna knew that as far as the prefect was concerned, Sawada Nana was not Tsuna’s mother.                 “I just-” Tsuna closed his eyes for a moment.  “The police found rubbing alcohol in my room but even Mom said I- well you know how clumsy I can be.  I've used the rubbing alcohol before.  The whole thing’s been labelled an accident, and I just want to put this behind me, so let it go, Senpai.  I’ll be fine.”                 He should’ve been suspicious when Kyouya didn't voice a protest, helping him to class instead.                 That evening though, when Nari came home two hours after Tsuna had been dropped off by a livid Tetsuya, his brother was sporting two black eyes, a swollen nose, a split lip, a limp even more pronounced than Tsuna’s, and was clutching his ribs with every step.                 Nana had dropped the plate she had been holding upon seeing him and had only paused long enough to grab her keys before escorting Nari to the car.                 When she asked what had happened, Tsuna’s brother didn't even glance in his direction.                 Nari never breathed a word about Hibari Kyouya, and the next day at school, Tsuna strode right up to the socially-stunted, widely-feared, violence-prone prefect and hugged him.                 If Kyouya’s shirt was wet when Tsuna pulled away, neither of them said anything. 
  {3}
                 Nari was very, very careful to avoid Tsuna for at least the next few weeks.  His mom even insisted he stay home after he had returned from the hospital, which was a relief because he could tell all his friends he had been sick and not beaten up – that was just uncool.  Hibari hadn't told him not to tell anyone about their run-in with each other – or rather, the prefect had literally hunted him down after school and... Nari really didn't want to think about it – but even Nari knew when to hold his tongue.                 The problem, he had quickly figured out, was that he hadn't planned far enough ahead.  He should’ve prepared for the worst possible outcome – that Tsuna would survive the blast well enough to tattle on Nari.  The fact that Nari hadn't arranged for this result also meant that he couldn't try again because he’d be Suspect Number One-and-Only on Hibari’s murder list if Tsuna was badly injured or killed.                 But Nari had been quick to take advantage of the fact that Tsuna was such a wimpy loser that he allowed Nari to do whatever he wanted when Hibari wasn't around as long as it wasn't too obvious.                 It also helped that Nana didn't care about Tsuna at all.  Even when Nari had ‘accidentally’ spilled hot tea on his brother, their mother had only fussed over Nari’s hands, which had still been bruised from his clash with Hibari – a perfect excuse for his uncharacteristic clumsiness.                 And, no doubt not wanting to make Hibari leave him for being even more of a failure than he already was – Nari didn't think for one second that that certifiable lunatic could feel guilty so it wouldn't be that – stupid Tsuna hadn't told the prefect about the two occurrences.                 It was almost perfect.  The only thing that would make Nari’s life better was if he didn't have to deal with Tsuna at all. 
  {3}
                 The retribution Kyouya had dished out didn't mean everything was okay again.  Tsuna was skittish at best every time he was back in the Sawada household, and he got little to no sleep on the few nights he actually went home at all.  Most days, Kyouya would simply haul him back to the Hibari residence and refuse to let him leave.  The only reason Tsuna went home at all was for...                 Well actually, he didn't know what reason he had, only that he still felt obligated to be seen a few times a week by his mother.  Nana hardly ever bothered to cook him breakfast or lunch anymore, even when he was there, and the one time she had said more than a few words to him at a time had been to scold him for putting Nari in danger.  Tsuna found it highly ironic that the first time Sawada Nana actually acted like a parent and reprimanded one of her children for a wrongdoing, it was towards him.                 “Is it attention you want, Tsuna?”  Nana had frowned.  “This isn’t the way to go about it.  You could've seriously hurt Na-kun!  I don’t know where I went wrong with you.  Mou, if only you could be like your brother.  I’d certainly have an easier time with two of Na-kun.”                 Tsuna had wanted to scream.                 Nari himself had taken to avoiding Kyouya like the prefect was the devil himself, but at home, after a few weeks of keeping his distance, Nari did everything he could to bully Tsuna, attempting to trip him or shove him down the stairs, and, twice, even spilling hot tea all over him.                 It was nowhere near as serious as the explosion incident, and Tsuna didn't want to trouble Kyouya anymore than necessary, so he didn't breathe a word about the harassment.  It seemed like all he ever did was depend on the prefect.                 And now, after another hectic day of running from Nari and his friends and using everything Kyouya had ever taught him to defend himself (but Tsuna wasn't good enough yet to beat eight-against-one odds and come out unscathed) yet still getting cornered and hurt since neither Kyouya nor Tetsuya had been there with him, here he was, no plan in mind whatsoever and standing outside in the backyard at three-thirty in the morning in the middle of February with his cell in hand and the number that Iemitsu had left with the three of them, along with a warning that they shouldn't call unless it was a severe emergency, waiting to patch through.                 Maybe, if he was very, very lucky, his father might be able to talk some sense into Nana and Nari once he came home and saw what was going on.  The man had to come home; Tsuna was certain that just words wouldn't make Iemitsu believe him.  Telling his dad over the phone was just asking to be dismissed as a child who wanted attention. He couldn't just say, ‘Dad, Nari tried to kill me.  There’s no evidence but you should believe me anyway, just because.’ Yeah, that’d go over well.                 “Nana?  Is something wrong?”                 It took a moment for Tsuna to remember how to start a conversation.  “D- Dad?”                 “...Tsuna?  Did something happen?  Where’s your mother?”                 Tsuna drew in a trembling breath.  “Dad, could you- could you come home?  I- I miss you.”                 A long silence ensued.  “Tsuna, is there an emergency?”                 Yes!  Tsuna couldn't seem to shape the word into existence.                 “No,” He said numbly.  “I just miss you.  Can’t- Can’t you come home, Dad?”                 Iemitsu sighed.  “I’m sorry, Tsuna.  I’m working right now.”                 “Please, Papa,” Tsuna refused to call this begging.  “I’d really appreciate it if you came home.  I- I need you here.”                 A shout and a crack that sounded chillingly like a gunshot came from the other end.  Iemitsu sounded distracted when he spoke again.  “Listen, Tsuna, I’ll call you back later.  Papa’s really busy right now.  I’ll call you back; I promise!”                 The line went dead before Tsuna could get another word in edgewise and his hand dropped from his ear as he stared sightlessly ahead at the row of trees lining the far side of the yard.  At the moment, he didn't even care that Iemitsu had probably hung up for a very good reason this time.  His last hope had just left him.                 He didn't know how long he stood there for, but he eventually made his way back inside, almost tripping over the threshold of his bedroom as he shuffled towards his chair, not daring to touch the new bed in the corner.                 He sat down, and he wondered exactly what he was doing here.  If he stayed any longer, sooner or later, Nari was going to gather enough courage to try again, and this time, Tsuna just might die.                 His family was screwed up but he didn't want to die just yet.                 If he stayed, dying was a very real possibility, and he just- He couldn't live like this anymore.  He wouldn't.  Staying in this house wasn't an option.  Staying at Kyouya’s house didn't mean he was safe from his brother on the streets – Nari and his ever-growing multitude of friends had already proven capable of trapping Tsuna, and one day, a year or two or three from now, Tsuna wouldn't be able to walk away from those confrontations. He couldn't stay.                 He swallowed hard and forced himself to calm down and think things through logically.                 Money.  He had money.  Except for birthday and Christmas presents and some food on occasion, he had saved up every last yen Nana had ever given him for pocket money, something that he had had to remind her of since he was eight years old.  The birthday and Christmas money from his father was still stored in a box in his closet behind lock and key, and for the first time, Tsuna was grateful for the huge amounts Iemitsu always sent home to make up for the missed holidays.                 Food.  Well, there were snacks downstairs, but he had the money for it and he knew how to cook; not on Nana’s level but better than average.                 Clothes.  He had plenty, but if he was really going to do this, he’d have to choose what to bring based on practicality.                 Destination.  Anywhere but here.  Anywhere he wouldn't be found.  His mother wouldn't care, and his brother would be ecstatic, but his father might look for him if he found out, and Tsuna would be dragged back to Namimori because Iemitsu would never believe Tsuna’s accusations without hard proof.                 Passport.  Would he need a passport?  Yes.  Duh.  And lucky for him...                 He pulled open a drawer, digging underneath papers and notebooks and flipping to page seventy-two in his encyclopedia to withdraw the fake passport he had made just to see if he could a year ago.  All the information on it was fake – Hyuuga Ieshige from Tokyo, born a few years earlier than Sawada Tsunayoshi so that he would be thirteen now, which was also a year above the required age of not being an unsupervised minor on a plane – and his picture had only been slightly adjusted.  Tsuna was no longer as small, and if he amended his posture and expression a certain way, he could realistically pass for a short thirteen-year-old.                 Standing up, he started packing.  All his money, but only a few books.  As much as he regretted leaving them behind, he couldn't exactly take his mini library with him.                 Clothes – pack warm, pack light.  And his scarf, of course.                 What else?                 Kyouya.                 Yes. No. No, he couldn’t just up and leave without saying a single word to his closest friend.  Kyouya would tear Namimori apart in search of him.  He’d tear Nana and Nari apart, period.                 He swiped up his phone again.  Kyouya answered after three rings, a hint of a sleepy drawl still lingering in his voice.                 “What is it?”                 No use dodging that question.  “I’m leaving.”                 Dead silence.                 Tsuna babbled out his intentions before he could stop himself.  “I can’t stay here anymore; I'm going to get killed one of these days.  I know how to take care of myself, I’ve got money, I’ve got a useable passport, and I know more languages than probably everyone in Namimori combined.  I’m leaving.”                 He waited nervously for Kyouya to say something.                 “Where are you?”  The prefect asked at last.  His voice sounded odd now, filled with something Tsuna couldn't identify and not a touch of lethargy in it.                 “At- Still at the house,” Tsuna glanced around.  “I’ve finished packing.  I’m just about to-”                 “Stay where you are,” Kyouya was all business now, and there was a rustling sound on his end.                 Tsuna shook his head even though Kyouya couldn't see it.  “I’m not- I’m not staying, Kyouya.  I- You’re my best friend, you know, but- I just can’t stay here.  Namimori’s not my home.  If Nari doesn't get me here, he’ll get me on the streets.  You can’t always be with me; you’re moving up to middle school next year!  And I’ve- I’ve depended on you for far too long-”                 “You don’t think it works both ways?”  Kyouya cut him short.  “You don’t think I dep- ...It works both ways, Tsunayoshi.”                 Tsuna’s mind blanked for a moment.  “Wh- What?  No it doesn’t!  I've done nothing for you!  We both know you don’t need those English lessons, and Italian is just for fun.  You’ll get the full hang of those flames eventually, and even what you’ve done so far you did on your own for the most part.  You’re really strong, you take care of me, and you handle everything so well-”                 “You are my conscience,” Kyouya interrupted yet again, tone crisp and adamant.  “You hold me back whenever I might go too far.  The Hibari name holds weight in this city, but even I am not entirely above the law, and as strong as I am, not even I could take on all the yakuza in this city alone if they decide to band together, or not get arrested if I end up with a second-degree murder charge.  The only reason I haven’t been detained is because the ones I attack are criminals themselves, and the Namimori police know what Hibaris do.  Without you, I would’ve probably pushed them into desperate actions, or outright slaughtered them, and they would’ve become even more unruly in the long run.  So whether you were aware of it or not, you were the one who taught me restraint, and yet still allowed me to run free.  That is not ‘nothing’, Sawada Tsunayoshi.”                 Tsuna actually had to pull his phone away from his ear to stare at it in disbelief.  Had Kyouya ever said that much at any one time?  And about feelings no less?                 A warm glow fluttered in the pit of his stomach.                 “Stay where you are for another...” A distant thump carried over the line.  “Forty minutes.”                 Tsuna frowned.  “Why?  If you're not going to stop me, then...”                 “I am asking for you to give me forty minutes,” Kyouya repeated.  “Will you wait for me?”                 Tsuna bit his lip.  “Yeah, alright.  Forty minutes.  I’ll be at the front gate.”                 Kyouya hung up without saying goodbye.  Tsuna exhaled through his nose and closed his phone as well, shrugging on his coat and wrapping his scarf around his neck before picking up his bag.                 He took his time moving through the house, taking one last look at everything, and wasn't even surprised when he realized that he would miss none of it.  This was not his home.                 He waited inside by the window, not so dense as to stand around outside for over half an hour.                 A minute before the forty-minute mark, Tsuna stepped out the front door, locking it behind him one more time before leaving the key under the mat.  He wouldn't need it anymore.                 Fifty seconds later, Tsuna squinted through the lamp-lit night at the two figures approaching him at a steady pace.  “Kyouya-senpai... and Tetsu-senpai?”                 “I can’t believe you called Kyouya-san but not me,” Tetsuya complained, the teasing note in his voice balancing out the sobriety.                 Tsuna smiled somewhat weakly at the older boy.  “You came all this way to say goodbye?  I could've called-”                 He had raised his phone in emphasis so Kyouya quite easily plucked it from his hand.                 “Excuse me,” The prefect said, and then smashed the phone against the wall beside them.                 Tsuna’s jaw dropped open.  “S- Senpai?”                 “Mafia father,” Kyouya said grimly.  “On the off-chance that woman tells her husband, I don’t want us to be traced.”                 It took ten seconds for Tsuna to connect ‘us’ to his brain and his brain to his mouth.  He blamed it on the cold.                 “Wait, what?”  Tsuna spluttered.  The large bag slung over Kyouya’s shoulder suddenly made a lot more sense.  “What do you mean ‘us’?  I’m going alone!”                 “You’ll go alone over my dead body,” Kyouya said in a voice that brooked no argument.  “I’m coming with you.”                 The prefect’s voice overrode any objections Tsuna tried to make.                 “I have already withdrawn both of us from the school databases,” Kyouya continued evenly, holding out a hand for the sheaf of papers that Tetsuya was carrying.  “As far as they’re concerned, as of twenty-five minutes ago, we’ve transferred to a school in Okinawa.  I'm sure many of them will be relieved.”                 Kyouya paused for a moment to allow a self-satisfied smirk cross his face.                 “These will be turned in to the school faculty in the morning,” The prefect handed a few sheets of paper to Tsuna.  “Basically, it’s written confirmation for the transfer.  It already has the woman’s signature on it.”                 Tsuna eyed the bottom of the last page.  “...That’s forged.”                 Kyouya didn't look the slightest bit contrite.  “Yes.”                 Tsuna stared for a moment longer and then handed the paperwork back without a word.  Something a lot like approval flashed in Kyouya’s eyes.  The prefect made to continue but Tsuna cut in before he could.                 The only thing Tsuna could think of at this point was their conversation all those months ago.                 “You love Namimori!”  Tsuna exclaimed anxiously.  “You said this is your home!  If I can help it, I'm not coming back, Senpai, ever.  I-”                 He was cut off when Kyouya glanced sharply at Tetsuya and the middle-schooler instantly backed away without question, moving across the street to give them some privacy.                 For a long minute, Kyouya simply stared at him, unblinking and unreadable as Tsuna fidgeted a little under the older boy’s gaze.                 Only when Tsuna opened his mouth did Kyouya stir at last. “I lied,” The prefect informed him candidly, hands slipping into his coat pockets. Tsuna blinked at him.  “Eh?” “When I told you that nothing could make me leave Namimori permanently,” Kyouya tilted his head back to gaze up at the night sky, his breath coming out in misty clouds.  “I lied.”                 Tsuna had no idea where this was going.  “Then... what would...?”                 Kyouya glanced down, undeniably annoyed now.  “I am not going to say it.  You cannot possibly be this slow on the uptake, Tsunayoshi.”                 A second, two, and then it clicked.  Tsuna’s eyes widened.  “Me?  But why?”                 Kyouya shrugged.  “For the same reason I returned to that roof every day over that first summer.  For the same reason as most of the things I've done in the past-”                 He paused.  He looked surprised.  “-three years.  Almost three years now.”                 The prefect surveyed Tsuna critically.  “There’s something about you – it’s not just the flames or your intelligence.  You’re... interesting.  You can just barely hold your ground in a fight against other herbivores yet you interest me.  No one else can claim that much.”                 Tsuna flushed.  “I’m nothing special.”                 “That’s a matter of opinion,” Kyouya hefted his bag briefly.  “That being said, you are still too weak to defend yourself properly against any herbivores trying to kill you.” Tsuna threw his hands in the air.  “It’s not like I’m going to war, Senpai!” “You are the son of a Mafioso,” Kyouya countered bluntly. “And Dad’s not going to send people to hurt me even if he wants to find me!”  Tsuna objected. Kyouya heaved a long-suffering sigh.  “Tsunayoshi, think – your father is head of the CEDEF and part of one of the strongest mafia syndicates in the world.  Don't you think he’s gained at least a few enemies over the years who would stoop to using his children as leverage?  While I couldn't care less about your herbivore of a father or that pathetic herbivore, I’d rather not have you kidnapped.  Again, might I add.” Tsuna’s breath froze in his lungs.  God, he was slow today.  That should’ve been obvious!  But- “I’m not taking you away from your home,” Tsuna said obstinately.  “You love Namimori, Senpai.  You can’t just drop everything and leave because I'm leaving!  I’ll be fine – I can always run-” “Do you believe you can run forever, Tsunayoshi?”  Kyouya’s eyes narrowed.  “I am coming with you.  This is non-negotiable.  I do not understand why you are still protesting.  We made an agreement – an exchange of lessons – and those are not finished yet.  Until you can defeat me, I will not stop teaching you, and until I can speak fluent English and Italian, and control my flames to the degree that you can, I will not allow you to stop teaching me.” Tsuna clenched his hands.  “We can keep in contact and I’ll continue the katas you taught me-” “We both know it is not the same,” Kyouya was glaring at him now.  “Even if you left without me now, you would be foolishly naive to believe I would not follow.” “What about your parents?”  Tsuna argued, clutching at straws. Kyouya looked blank.  “What about them?  If they wish to know, Tetsuya will tell them.  Otherwise, I do not see how they will have a problem with this.  You know what my family is like.” “This is your home!”  Tsuna exploded.  “I’m not going to force you to leave it!”                               Kyouya stared at him.  A resolute sort of weight had entered his voice when he spoke next, each word deliberate and solemn.  “You are not forcing me to do anything.  This is my choice, Tsunayoshi.”                 Tsuna’s heart hammered in his chest as he wondered when it was exactly that he had gained Kyouya’s loyalty like this.  Leaving a place that the prefect had always cherished with one word from Tsuna – who did that?                 “Namimori will still be here years from now.  If I want, I can always return later,” Kyouya glanced at the watch he was wearing.  “Now, if we have finished this disgustingly emotional heart-to-heart chat, can we please get back to business?”                 Tsuna sighed in defeat.  “You’re a stubborn ass, Senpai.”                 Kyouya smirked triumphantly.  “I’ll take that as a compliment.  And drop the ‘senpai’ – neither of us are in school anymore.”                 He turned and waved Tetsuya back over, handing back the stack of papers.  “Tetsuya will head the disciplinary committee in Namimori – it has already been set up for the most part.”                 Tetsuya nodded determinedly, far more confident than when Tsuna had first met the older boy.  Then again, spending large amounts of time with someone as scary as Kyouya and with someone like Tsuna to smooth things over could do a lot for one’s self-esteem.                 “I’ll contact you in one month’s time once I'm certain no one will be looking for you,” Tetsuya promised gravely.                 “What about a passport?”  Now that Tsuna had relented and accepted the fact that Kyouya was coming with him, something in his stomach calmed and settled, and he could focus better on their priorities.  “We’re probably not going to stay in Japan.”                 “I have one,” Kyouya nodded.  “Altered as needed of course.  And these.”                 Tetsuya rifled through his pockets and withdrew a new cell phone and a credit card, pushing them into Tsuna’s bewildered hands.                 “You don’t have a bank account, do you?”  At Tsuna’s headshake, Kyouya motioned at the items.  “An untraceable phone and a new private account.  And don’t waste time saying you can’t take them.”                 “But how did you-?”  Tsuna hesitantly pocketed the phone (later, he’d have to either phone Shiraishi to inform him of an emergency switch of phone numbers or tamper with the thing himself and reroute his original number to this phone and make it so that only certain people would have access to it) as he eyed the credit card.                 “I have connections,” Kyouya said simply.  “Or rather, my family has connections.  I’d like to see even Vongola try to trace those.”                 Tsuna put away the card as well, silently promising himself to never touch Kyouya’s money unless it was an emergency, and to get a source of income as soon as possible.                 “So...” For whatever reason (because really, the prefect – now ex-prefect – had been the one to think of most of the preparations), both Kyouya and Tetsuya turned expectantly to Tsuna. Kyouya raised an eyebrow.  “Where to, Tsunayoshi?” Tsuna took a deep breath.  Well, this was his show in the end.  And no matter what Kyouya said, Tsuna really did depend far too much on the older boy.  He wasn't so arrogant as to believe that he could go at everything alone, but sometimes, he needed to stand on his own two feet.  He needed to take charge, not count on someone else to do all the work for him. “You said Okinawa?”  Tsuna nodded to himself.  “We’ll take a train to Morioka first then.  I don’t want us leaving by plane from Namimori or Okinawa in case someone traces that.  Trains just need tickets.  After that, we’re leaving the country.” Tsuna turned sharply to face the open road, the street extending before him suddenly seeming longer than it had ever been under the moonlight’s glow. “We’ll go to Italy,” A rare smirk pulled at his mouth.  “If my dad does find out and sends people out to look for me, there’s no place better to lie low than right under his nose.” Kyouya only replied with an answering smirk.  “As you wish, Tsunayoshi.” And as they said their goodbyes to Tetsuya, who swept a bow for each of them and swore to take good care of Namimori, Tsuna realized that, with Kyouya beside him and a world of possibilities in front of them, he felt no regret in leaving his hometown behind. 
  {3}
  [In Messina, Italy]
                 “Hey Boss, are you alright?”                 Iemitsu glanced up distractedly from his phone as he and his team rested from a night of bullets and fire and a mad chase through the back alleys of Messina.  He thanked several gods he didn't believe in that he had had the foresight to leave Basil behind tonight.                 “I’m fine Turmeric,” He caught Oregano’s eye.  “How’s his arm?”                 “He’ll be fine, sir,” Oregano reported shortly as Turmeric grumbled under his breath.  “If he’d stop moving, he’ll be even better.”                 “I’m good with just fine,” Turmeric groused, and the two broke off into a light banter, mostly just to take their minds off that night’s close shave.                 “Didn't your son phone you earlier?”                 Iemitsu turned his attention on the tiny figure sitting beside him.  “Yeah, I’ve been trying to reach him but I can’t get through.”                 He paused, his frown deepening.  “He used the emergency number.  And...”                 Lal Mirch arched an eyebrow.  “And?”                 Iemitsu scrubbed an agitated hand through his hair.  “He called me ‘Papa’, Lal.  I didn't really notice until now.”                 Lal frowned.  “He’s your son.  What else is he going to call you?”                 “Tsuna hasn’t called me ‘Papa’ since he was three,” Iemitsu told her bluntly.  “Nari’s the one who still calls me that on occasion.  Tsuna just calls me ‘Dad’.  And he sounded... desperate.”                 “Call home then,” Lal suggested sensibly.  “Kid probably just missed you or something.”                 Iemitsu didn't bother telling her that Tsuna was far more independent than Nari and that calling him just because he was missed was something Nari would do, not Tsuna.                 Instead, he dialled home, waiting out the five rings it took before his wife’s familiar voice, still drowsy with sleep, answered.  “Hello?”                 Iemitsu grinned goofily despite the situation.  “Nana, it’s me!”                 His wife’s voice immediately lifted.  “Iemitsu!  I wasn't expecting a call!  Especially this late; is something wrong?”                 Iemitsu forced out a sheepish laugh.  “No, no, I just missed your voice and thought I’d call!”                 As Nana giggled on the other end, he caught Lal mock-gagging on his left before she hopped to her feet and wandered away.  Hmph, no sense of romance.  He’d have to hunt Colonello down again and sic the Rain Arcobaleno on her for a week’s leave.                 “Well, I was just sleeping.  Shouldn't you still be in bed too, Dear?”
                “Work ran late.  I’ll be going to sleep soon,” Iemitsu half-lied, glancing around the warehouse that he and his team had taken refuge in.  “By the way, how are the kids?”                 “Oh, Na-kun’s asleep of course.  He had a tiring day today what with soccer practice in the morning.  He’s going to be a great player one day if he decides to go into soccer.”                 Iemitsu winced at that.  He knew that the Ninth was already considering Nari as the next Vongola Decimo.                 He glanced around again, knowing that they shouldn't stay for too long in one place just in case their enemies had backup.  As much as he’d like to hear more about Nari’s feats, he didn't have time.                 “And what about Tsuna?”  Iemitsu prompted, silently apologetic when he had to cut Nana off.  “How has he been?” 
                  “Tsu-kun?  Oh he’s fine.  I keep telling him to be more like Na-kun but I guess that’s just not possible.  Na-kun is my little prodigy after all.”
                 Iemitsu frowned again.  “Tsuna’s smart in his own right, Nana.  He just doesn't show it.  Has he been happy?”                 “Yes, yes, quite happy.  You know how Tsu-kun is – he’s most comfortable by himself so we leave him alone and give him plenty of space.”                 Iemitsu opened his mouth to push a little more.  Something felt wrong here.                 But before he could say anything, Lal called from across the room, “Iemitsu, we’ve got incoming – at least ten of them!  We need to go!”                 “Will you be coming home soon, Iemitsu?”  Nana was asking.                 Iemitsu grimaced at her hopeful tone.  “Sorry, Nana, I’m afraid work is busier than ever, but I’ll finish as fast as possible and come home soon.  I love you.” 
  “I love you too.  Should I tell Na-kun you called?”
 Distracted by the growing tension around him, Iemitsu missed the singular reference.  “Sure.  Just give my love to the boys, okay?  Tell them... Tell them their old man won’t be home for a while yet since he’s gone off to become a star.” 
  Nana giggled again.  “You’re a romantic at heart, Iemitsu.  Alright, goodnight.”
 “’Night, Nana,” Iemitsu hung up, sparing a moment to assure himself that Tsuna was alright after all before grabbing his gun and putting the entire admittedly strange incident out of his mind.  After all, Tsuna still had Nana there to look after him.                 Three years later, this decision would become one of his greatest regrets.
        Notes:
          Kama kote – Aikido arm pin; with an inverted grip of the wrist, medial rotation of the arm and shoulder, and downward pressure on the elbow.  Common in knife and other weapon take-aways.I’m hoping that while Nari is still an ass, he also comes off more... human in this chapter.  I tried to flesh him out a bit by writing in his pov.Also, like I said, Yamamoto isn’t going to appear for a while yet.  I’ve already planned out his entrance but it won’t be until Tsuna and Kyouya comes back.Alright, so Tsuna’s childhood years are done!  The next three years before Reborn arrives in Namimori are very important – Tsuna will be picking up people left and right *grin*, so that’ll take at least a few chapters.  Lots of twists to come, hopefully unexpected, and the next chapter will start six months after Tsuna and Kyouya has left Namimori.And just a warning: my reading break’s over so I won’t be able to post chapters every few days anymore.  Next chapter of anything will take a while.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (26)
  Comments
          vellichor615, salsas100, SleepyBoi, CrimsonedClouds, Rock_Salt, Ichikari, Neko_377, libraryrocker, autophagy, monochromexx, Catann, Felli46, Votvort, drag0nsoldier, Straycrayoncrypt, crayolaFeline, Lilly2805, Lira1234, DanielaJust, TheAnonFaerie, dreams_of_dragons, VermilionScar, Sillvog, Rossmonster01, Misspsychedelicpattern, NifflerStorm, aetervi, Faleoh, Trixylune, Aquamarine_Shinku, thethirdbikerscholar, RedTears123, SecretWings, carlacollado, L1ttleNightmare, Uni_Sun, LilMistyMist, Sephran, Liepik, N_silver_shadow_anime, Riverway14, Neo_Hexkin, WonderWoman04, Dromuthra, Teleit, Ibrigy, Thea_Riddle, Ellipses010, GhostQueen24, FlyingSquirrely, 
               and 1654 more users
            litelian, AkiraChaosSuta, 83rdperson, Acyili, Besha, Scrivenger_Grimgar, 020_Serpens_1996, Rin_Hawaki, BlackDoveWhiteDove, Whirlpool1246, variacloud27, BlindCat, TheTartWitch, turon, End, ray0312, ajaja, bananichu, Awwstuck03, Daliapv, Just_heck_no, DannyPaige1599, Flickering_Ember, Hamilton02, lynshen, Fey_79, TenshiNeko14, Cutthrought, BlueBirdBlue29, yetimati, BookPhoenix, a22419, JaydenAlenna, idnn927, HiddenArrow003, KaguyaKaneki, gazbert, iridianabyss, Theepebble, elocoel, Rayna76, IcyShadow, CreativeGwenllian, AsManiego, AnistasiaDFlight1962, JDLynn, explicitnoceur, Altaira, The_Starry_Koi, Firestarlily, zwno, WishToBeWizard, Uchi, Hyliian, Yuuki_toread, Lala32903, FlowerCrownPrincessHarry, onedemoniclilly, gollux, Flustered, Butterfly_effect, 9KolvinaLullaby20only, Unknownhero00, Joewue, xXRBBXx, Cheeziebacon, EtheriousLogia, Farmakognoziya, IpiuGate, Sunnax, Sly_Jackson08, kalistasunstar13, Towaneko, itscrazylate, Booksaremylifeblood, ForebodingPink, Rinory, picabone99, bulgecursed, Animepriceprincess_22, NeEaDiNg_HuGs, Gabyzinha_nya, Abrosia_Tranquila, ShirinOfTheGreatRift, idiotwithinternet, Lolamori, RowlettLesbian, DuelyPostNoted, Ryoji_Mochizuki, x0WhisperingWinds0x, NikkiTheFicEater, Higanbana, Jalanrut, Ace_of_change, Arowesee, xuxxinct, Hibari_Luoka, Ukkicamarud, kramisar, MikiParker, AtTheEndEverythingDies, Avendrial, Cloesome, a7mily, misterymassacre, NocturneReads, letmerot, BluCorvus, jgood27, CLMac, Cielo27, Fire15dsgirl, hts, SerialKnitter, Candy284, ChristenGM, Kotona14, Mxxnx, Animetiger24, Healani, spicybitch, Punkin98, Grace_Logan, SherlockHolmes84, Entfa, Queen_of_the_Stars, Maramane, Esperanz, Lia707, SageHiddenDragon, QueenAyame1305, AlternateInverse, Chayenne3004, obliviuns, Skelpais, MielShen, Aki_no_Kitsune, Ominous_Book, iamlowkeycrying, Ryxmas, Space_Unicorn, EsperZandara, moonlitplanet, TheEdifier, itzyesul, MiraiLuki, Nonparoxysm, kifu, Sun_Through_Canyon, Nette_717, Nyxhell, Yarning, ElurosAthena, shenmi_meiren, TheSanomesRose, RYuuri27, Liana0909, Azadrie, Akarius_Eroxus_Orisma0315, InterwebsEqualsLIFE, Happygirl424, BurnBritain, ceutpuppy, A_Silent_Echo, Deadlillylying, PearlPrince, brieflydeepperson, wndycxrl, 3terna1Y0ut4, Noanila, TheAnswerIsAlways42, cool_potato, fingerprintbyfingerprint, TheAbsoluteOne, Znickerdoodle, Zaer_Tyler, Wandering_Crimson_Sage, ChanceORiley27, Lianarias, Yuiskyi, Dolphin69, Ace_ofAllTrades, SeraphimSoul, FussyFuzzy, Shewolf1990, Jj1234, Izabela7575, biscuitlevitation, ihelam, Alexan271, FabricatedTruth, yaboi_ex_press, sargassoseas, dammitbilinski, SpookyScarySkeleRyn, drpepper_and_takis_for_lunch, Xharai, YourHomeGirlJen, Spear, fieryrondo, LadyFox, Rixesppha, demorarion, 2tarOfMyHeart, BeQuiet, Nonymous_673, BostonTerrier2002, Holol, Deatin, CoraPearson, CinnamonPaint, Isou, merlikuty, Shatteredxo, Aivilo, Coj2d, Rood, Grotter, BeanJelly, Anitoonfan, bluebouquetpanda, sheana, Tessa_tess_tess, ddora88, Obligation_Unattended, MlRAGE, Lia791, jean5, Zennoodle, Yukimura18, manga123freak, GhosthunterJIO, RadiantSphinx, SkyRipper, Thoth, Insaniquarium, merrymilkmaid, jkbat, Sakina77, Kingrii07, picketcricket, heavenlyblue, BooklovingNightFlyer, Anelees, SashaSeriously, Quillsofdeath, Definite_Destiny, EricaNJ, Majestic_Owl, Katharina_Lucia, Baby_Ghost_132, armstonite, Rhyssi, Leamei, AvidReader_ofEverything, voidofchaos, karin_angel, Uzen, DragonSlayerEmpress, Dbkp09, AMereDream, Moon_Ashura, megara_s, Snoop_snoot, Lieselotte, Profimacher2, MissP, Sol, assana73, htatsuha, T4T_05k, miistical, Mangakoibito, SoldierOfApathy, GlodenLily89, handthatleechasodapop, 7019289, birdsandboys, Bae_Of_The_Books, orange_cactus, kawaiioddish, Kannl, Pichu7910, AnimeFangirl101, talynka, Wowza48, MS117I5, ChibiKitsune, Feliciteria, Astrael_Slytherin, ChuLian, JayannaGrace, GEManley, ephemeral_times, InsanusMusicae, book369, No10_2_see_here, ANightToRemember11, ly_X1108, GalaxyCatten, Vector_Arrows, charminghex99, WitchZakuro, SweetlyCalm, meepmerp101, TheMultiverseTraveler, Alis_MW_Ombrage, sinigang, WinterHowls, Caelismylife, LeKuma, Saint_Black_Genesis, MajorAbigailWhitlock, alecksanduhrah, LiYun, armygirl93, indiling, WordForEveryStar, A_1123, HeraldessOfSekhmet, Zazibine, SansaTheMagpie, ladyaya, Zebrachan, Lost_on_fragglerock, StopStealingMyShoes, Angel_of_Thantos, Lotte2265, Rytsu, soundlessMusic, Iddora, Noir3_alve, Gelatik, Unsolicited_Happiness, BookSprite, violet_iron, Mumuuu, butterflykisses78, ZeroWhiteRaven, op_gryphon978, Ciel_Leon, ShadowedFye, Elentiya21, Stacimalibu, DacianaDrakul24, Natsuo, kurenohikari, Psyka, OceanWatcher, Fin_Ano_Baka, kiralou, BleuNox, yunne, LadyDeamon, sunshinejunghoseokk, O_Heza, lucilleon, Black_Thanatos, Chattycate, LadyAshetzi, natyap38, KitsuneChara13, Ego_eris, A_Sleep_Deprived_Baggy, Levitarius, WickedWitchOfTheWeb, Vital_Blue, Bexilicious, Siriein, solill, Gakifang, Paristandard, Hiruma, thedellione, celticlove1, Alice_Hell, MorbidRobin, Niji_4140712, ThePinkHotPot, Rosepetals2083, OnlyAwkward, Starcast_Dreamer, TheVersionTwo, SexAndStardustLies, Cocosweet53, Athena8472, Blue4dogs, Amarinda, graycalls, ARYd, Jam_chan, RavenCarver, scry_ash22, Keii, MynameisJodi, Soppl, devilishqueen, OblivionSongstress, TeaDrinkingFlowers, AlladaleRiver, Williread, Razel, Kiara_tatsu, bellebonheur, Kida279, tellus8, Sheezow, Snowhome01, Dex_The_Hex, Kangalia, DumbAceEnby, Ihave2dogs, Lyyycoris, emerald_jade12, limiculous, Pulchritudinous27, Fuyuki_Merleawe, Mrs_Owl, Dragonlover666, dspd, Nieblina, KarmaMariposa_360, Cuppie, brightlance, Boy_o_Boy, GreenTea44, reflectedmisery, hatsunemiku1999, Cheshire_flower, GretaJackson16, Iamqueen_raihan, Neecla, Aquade, SilverThorns, ibunkitan, ElSisterMonarch, SCV96, heeyeon, casinoquality, Sweettoothforpie, Black2449rose, Rudolf6210, necroeffect, iloveanimeandmanga2000, Hieifiredragon, WolfPack11235, Kuhaku_no_Kyo, NoirElizabeth, Yutikaishi, Ishani_SK, Noxis, Koma_chan, TeacupOpossum, SerendipitysTears, StolenChild, faelwenquinn, AliannaMW, Inchigo13, taywen, potterheadslytherclaw, theressomethingwrongwiththisplace, yolk_town, kunai909, reisoa, Vero9966, Teallama, jayfeather63, Seyram, yumocci, lolboy54321, scarlet_lupin, Lea_Cat, explorne, CloverLord, Addictedforevermore, Yoshiko_san, Kruen, Jasminedreamsong, preteritperil, LokiOdinsonlover, Saphyara, Whitebeardpirate4life, LadyCroft_Undead19, Zalewinds, Kokky, Revivae, BuryMeDeeper, Angelesydemonios, PanelinhaDePressao, LadyCrimsonAndBlack, YukoKurusu, beauty_is_in_the_eye_of_the_beholder, Iayola117, CrowManifesto, Kyaiun, AvidReader296, bluesoilder4710, Unworthybeing, JackcsWorld, Kurlz123, DUO_02, Abrinei, Amalthea2000, heartrapier, Aemilia, MEOS, covertpartyhat, KinshinKrow, ShadowsBrokenLullaby, Stefni, Princess21, Amu, nabby, Miranda99, Dilami, lostlodestar, LunacyCorbanKingsley, flickers_to_flames, SerenitySummers, horatora, OceansFate, aescyra, astridlena31, lada13lelay, Lucky3, HPNU92, sleeping4aweek, GeekyIdiotCas, shiro_kitsune, ClareSpark, animeloverhomura, Ollister1, mrandall, Kathiir, MaddestHatter, Chance27, windymayhem, musichd, Deanoxi, Salllzy, Fudge_cakesss, azrael_w, TheKatGurl, daime, Zinthos20, DerangedJester, snow_and_cats, RedBlackKnife, Arya19, ryidaniel1, thejennmarie, pagination, Rainofbrokenpromise, Dreadkelpie, Savang, merkkat, lhluvsAthena, AyameKato, Mashirou, Bookwormgirl216, Kyleta, Qxtno, grasshopperchan, Momentary_Flight, tall_tales_collector, yingwingyi, Tory_The_Kitteh, Ruby_Di_Angelo, Zaliah, MeepMeepFriends, Maniacal_Cupcake, Kael_Vercorian, darkpaw1964, Verdinonsese, Bethany_smallwood, Chrissss, Kuugen111, Senri_chan, MyMindIsTellingMeNo, OnyxLibertas, DeathIsLazy, Rotten_R, weathermarmalade, Kiasa, RavenErisBlack, ErinLovesPotatoes, BattyForFruit, River_Lethe, Anychan, Mikiri, kujyouhikari, animemangaobsessed, Sappir, 1adybug, Bloody_Kitsune_Lover, InsanityUnleashed, pointysparkles, DeathEternus_13, nemhain2009, WantToBeADog, LittleBookwormOtaku, TramontAnna, Jozina, Hotarouoreki, wickedfaerie, NaoNazo, kashaminami, drunkbutterflies, kerov, SillyRiddler, JenChevez, Natsume1111, Angelic_Xia, MeikoKuran999, Dubhesan, Ethrodel, foxekiwi, verdantquest, bluegrass, Gly, Maurey, Book167, in5pirit, QuietAssumption, einargs, CrimsonLaurana, the_lord_of_time, Jel, Raeolu, Lilywrite, aliciarae, Alexy971, FancyTragedyCat, 4OfSpades, SomniumOfLight, AutumnCiel27, CastleFairy13, jeunelesang, Enchanted_Reader, Dragonninja, TekoloKuautli, IAmAnAwesomePrussian, purple_fluffy, ANarrativeCloud, Jenavive, MeteorAtDusk, Zalein, wadanoharagirl, tenebrae_di_oblio, echotalia, A_sinning_Nobody, Pandakat678, inshadowsandlight, Avieryn, Bluerose500, siriusblackpotter, MarnaLufters, Caffae, TheSlothfulOne, NobodyAkashaAmariel, Kyotan, Died_Orphan, Verdantia, WitcherOfLife, Serefonia, Zibeth, Otaku_ka_ren, ChocoMochi, PyrrhicProse, Diabolikghostbird, setoboo, Hiroshi, kanikan, IantheRose, silklegend, flawless_gem, uke_kagami_taiga, ob1, SlytherinXiao, TwigandFlea, curledqueen, AdLunaeLumen, Lytri, SamsaraAmaranth, shigeka, Bibliophile030, deviantLucidity, HeartlessReader, Lola9525, seegazzy, teakookies, Hellnordico, Shanna_Nightingale, Xiaoyin, Mivala, LupaAltrecation, AmberPip, LostMyFlamingSword, 00janeblonde, Amusical, Zamantha, tami66, domino54, Faened, DemonStarLover, Chaeotica, Ashalya, Fluffy_Kitsune, liketolaugh, BloomOutOfSeason, ImASlitherySnake, DancinOddball, XiaoAnya, bearswithlazereyes, Bondlock, BeASlumberingDragon, boneboullion, PhantomHobgoblin, brage278, bbautista, Local_Raccoon, DrimysAusterus, ohmygoshsomeoneactually, Nobody13, apple_cherry_pie, SnakeofMedusa, the_Oracle_of_Boston, effpeeks, Azrael9296, JustaBluebird, Deannaistirednnngh, Chitsukii, crysdradem, Ereana, Squishy4953, Yuukki, FaeScribe35, Jetime, Rae_Kid, Kill_Me_Now, wyrdfish, Myrddin767, ryouseiteki, Shiho_Akemi, Siera_Knightwalker, butfirstno, Jaggedheart, Pauliina, Kosaji, emo_gene, Quiet_Shark, NovaRacer27, Hiyuki, WolfSongGirl, Nickchyomnyi27, Peertje, Dylove, hunkofcheese, doll34, ShiroShiki27, sailor_andromeda, metalmaidenchick, DubbLeohh, shothelion, Booklover9477, AlsheBluebells, NorCalNEH, ThatBlueCookie, Marina_Rosette, kate1243, Fezzik37, CaptainLion_chan, mischif, ultimatecryptid, ceinwynstaffie, Clove_The_Hufflepuff, dovetail_17, kittenwithclaws, Yto, takamaru3110, ninjagirl9797, Izoona, Rukz, mewtwosangel, Zenithyl, Diediepie, lady_kyo, Ari27, Valdinia, Skull1412, MoonChildEmpress, InsanityRed, EvenescentTranquility, TinyAxolotl, Wiggins, Bones_027, Kekat, StarrLightning, Hikiko_Magai, Natzed202, sylwioszka, Mymine, aizucream, Marciel, JissaFics, hjorkdrey, eternalglitch, Pinlie, Micha247, Caynya, TKAWAIII2013, TIE_fighter, koolandkatty, brimbelle12, OhWhatAShock, TokenSideCharacter, TsubakiTwilight, CrazyEditorBookWorm, himitsuko, Echodoki, theold_astronomer, Tuerie, Tirya_Moonflame, NiRinn, tinylight, Akai_chan11, AvengelAzrael666, mabbofu, Christyyy, furiousbeluga, TiredCactus1601, GypsyGirl, Soneaa, zinka, redheadcutie, vindice, SedaVictoria, mehlk, etherealtulip, willtreaty, CinnamonLover, RedHeadsRock1010, ItsKatfri, Penthisilea, ClownPierro, LilyHecateSiren, HikariSatsuko, Luvoco, Hiken08, Darketta, Daimashiko, NarukoAckerman, Diamondia, StrigineGhost, samoulto, Somnorum_Liber, LuckyCleric, Warriorofbooks, colormesherlocked, Sherlockian_Thia, Breach42, lunabyrd, ELK_in, SarabowerTN, crystallis_neige, MoonRaven1412, wanderingBasilisk, CCGhastly, ThatOneBanana, UntoldDepths, LazyBum26, xX_lavender_Xx, Mysweetassedprince, orenjisan, Silkyb, kamiyuri, amuse_g, Maychelle, tentenenen, Toxic_Shadow, B0nk3rs, I_am_french_fuck_you, booklover1209, EssaGandana, Sunflower_Seed, hillary603, so_very_pretty, mathmf, Senbosakura, Yomi_is_tired, ThornMaiden, irideal, naruhi, Still_Invalid_486, white06rose, Hunger, Needlegal67, ireallydunno, xxEmmy, deezee, Thiasemu, salazarblackwolf, Sketch_ice, Riddler, Kixi, S5210, amber_glowbug, Mistress_Insanity, Evie74, fannydespres, serena24, shoeterfly, myvividreams, 0urhappygirl500, Shyaway95, Maven_Fair, DilwynAwel, Adorra, Kisefish, Meownonymous, Katblue7, fersakyn, mads243, Matsoine, Wecantgiggleitsacrimescene, WarriorofAces, apfelmarmelade, miroveha, PhyreGirl, agustdickk, marshmallowl, Letyourmindsoar, Imjusthereforthefanfiction, athanasius_suisanahta, AnIdealistAtHeart, theundead, elysiankairos, Lostnights, frost078, Sophisticated_MrDuck, Kleptomaniac_Can_Opener, cicsummers, Aki_chan, 1Otamon, Tatrin, Rayvenfire12, Zulaq, Jory0994, arinrowan, Jar_of_galaxy, phirephox, XyuuX, Butlericfy, MidnightMixer, Hollydoor, YetForNothing, Jvitor901, M3G, blackfire283, charoninheaven, SisterAct_Revolution, sen_kise, rottingfox, Hexpixie, azin, booklover4177, arachroy, SpideypoolAlways, greenwings33, FallenAngel231312, IgnisFelicis, ForgottenAngerCourter, Sarah_94, bookworm54321, Alfabeta, Alyss_Penedo, Timohska, CharlotteDaBookworm, rinalen96, creepycrabs, Astador, Fled, Artsysquiddles, TheMoonOracle, HisakawaKasumi, moucchi, aperez09, Lothely, 21deep, Evierl_Frost, Caffie, tsukitennyo, abad_idea, ThePrincessDragon, aPaperCupCut, CareBear0309, BreathAfterDeath, kousueki, ArcaneCougar, Crimson_Pharaoh, eiriankageno, Glaindy, NonchalantxFish, Quitalea, Moonknight, leapinglion, kabogacha, Olorisstra, firegrown, meri47, AiraLune, DawnDreamer, Stephano_The_Swords_Women, FyreTempest, Imogen_Lia, WinterAngel24, Sasunaru_protection_squad, KyokiUzumaki, Kris2025, Organic_Stories, Antonia528491, Rehia, Tigae, hannahtr, OneFandomIsNotEnough, p0stScriptum, iamanawesometaco, wet_wussy, Hugggg, Y_ellow, SaskiaTree, LatinBookReader, jingruyin, Freaky4eve, Righello, Bluestormwolf, GrinningCheshire, AkayaKuroihana, AuthorGirl27, Enigmatree, KuronoLucy, DeathByCocoa, Yume_sanpo, AyameEcho, the_crownless_queen, Kidor, NanaB, ScarletRoofs, Arwin01, rustedeaglewings, Ellie_Riddle_Black, DCJoKeRHS, saintsurvivor, ouryu, Takeru, Morgaria, softwonder, draydreamer, Procrastinating_Tendencies, sunshineinwriting, MyrnaMaeve, ZaraHunter, 24queeniej, oyote, titchoupinette, nanobitten, JessNic67, DominoTNK, 1_2hurtsjustalittlebit, lydia_theda, Hikari_Tsuhina, OnyxStitches, Windying, kirana, avasera, redcoconutcurry, Moonsreader, redrainbow123, SilverKitsune22, Karcee, DMCP, Detective_Otaku_1412, All4Anime, Ondine_de_la_Mer, FenrisFenrir, Drachen_Trido_5050582, Ghoul0810, YinNocturne, redapple26, Khaiell, caelum27, Fienf, Shironaii, Kree_Minory, Akemi831Sato, Tandrele, WooziStarlight, Huntertraiya, Yoshishisha, IllyriaNight, Arrysa_Clair, EquinePianist, kalantern, crazyness101, KingofSwirlandColor, SabakuMoon, Cartoon_Caity, fanficuserhihi, Everi, ladyxoxo, A_Nest_of_Nargles, Mercury_Eyes, GadfeatherSnowrose, Millenie, bonsaiy, Aiselua, Dragon007, littlecloudy, star_reader, sweetypea16, Krystalized, Rangrids, brightlyblue, SilentRhythm, The_Capslock_Queen, IRTooM, VioletaAsh, Lady_Ydun, calliopechild, bbb671, JadeHittocere, Janelly49, OriksGaming, Auri_eventide, chocolatecatcupcakecheese, Liantei, Shionite, forbiddenSender, Undersea11desert, FanFicLover2316, Wisteric, DameAmaryllis, Jennybot_19, enefea, Andria, FriendlyObsessiveReader, SoapTurtles, ultor1302, Redhaven987, lbrandtr, Corrinaclark, Yagurassensei, Anummel, Fey_Nim, Fanime364, Ekrizdis, MsPevensie, Birds_without_color, MigiKno, grimtidings, Socordiam, Dollmaker, Vree, Cynthia_of_the_Wallflowers, Risachi, Ryn_Tak, gilithramaloce, Labrujadel95, fire_spirits, BooksAreMagicOnPaper, oreobabe, zetasa, KayaSatochi, TheFleetingWanderer, DaphneTheAdipose, Lady_Williams, MikoSashia, Arrivari, La_Nuit_Noire, CBookWyrm, Darkchi13, Ialwayskeepshipping, suncrest, elpsycongruent, Onyx_Light, JustYourAverageFriendlyCannibal, devil4y, Jarjaxle, zoey_96, Selene_Dreamwalker, GraveMonera, Raja_Myna, WolfieXD, Azurame_Neve, khovalnox, plumstagram, kickassdani, Shadow_of_Quill, Sunny_yea, Nyodrite, ELinkA, PassingDark, LucyWonderLandMadness, RinRynRen, light_side_of_dark, NicaMyth, NatsumeRio, intertwingular, Skywillow, softdeepgrey, BurnoutWolf, StarGrey522, Aurelyn, MonsterJinx, d_lueth, elki3, IsabelleRobins, ElleVarem, evil_in_disguise, oxbonkus, Tordenheim, LeSal, StoryHabit, lifeinwords, randomcrazyness, elle_chat, Tylune, SorimeLove, sonten, blandfish, CreepingSoul, notquiteaphoenix, r3nlock, Kuyn, celestialbeing, Silly_Shade, Rushira, The_Lost_Hikari, manluvvins, YokaiAngel, green_eyed_storywritter, monkey_mii, italia19, BashyBunny, SuspiciouslyDelicious, xXInsaneWolfXx, raineynight713, HadesCat, Absolem0, RatherOblivious, AzureSea8, morissa, Melodien, Eleonor, stormflame89, Eovin, LadyDarko, mysticalFishhooker, karachix, The_Perverted_Twins, Animus_Melodiam, Alex1369, LadyLace, wstphl, The_Cat_Smuggler, KalenaGP, IridescentStars, Era_Penn, dwarfprincess, Witch_of_Perception, esquitor, raindroproses, kimchi759, glowtoads, blackraven623, Czigany, Sewenna, racbrs, terfa, Elshell, Monochrome13, Naturekitty, Simple, RominaBlack, wolfolk, Kea2121312, vhirapi, Tahleth, Narsci, Daughter_of_Gaia, Redcatgirl, mygknj, Eeze, TenToes, Absolutely_flabbergasted, ForgedInSmoke, lucime, Accai_Berry, Imshee, DaOrangeSoda, Junebug772, TiaraShin, Tobalerone, LazyCoffee, Gender_Fluid_Druid, Temper_Tantrum, Unctuous, BronzeBaboon, aljanmoonfire, soarz, nox2056, shureshang, sear, sonysakura, daydreamNerd, Saota, AnimationFans, viralcat, Zanzando, roxsandf, EligorAym, NeroCassis, Ecervelee, whereverimayfindher, elv7, BonesOfBirdWings, AlmightyStalker, ivyraven, Opheliad, adevyish, Reader93, clairvoyage, Tsume_Yuki, MissTyche, Ephemeral_Star, Brooke_Lea_C, SiempreHere, libellulebleu, ea_nasir, Luckycomet09, whiteblayze, krazeekatlady, FreeWeirdGal, Neloska, heathbar, pencilmate, wraven881, 19CarolZoldik19, Fukurox, Calais, ventte, Deverick_Racoma, Raielle, Tetramorph, Project0506, sacredpools, Maniak, calesta, emja, EllieInLove, DesertPrincess, AlphaTemptress8, Reddiamond29, Angieni, Angelmonster, terrychan, Sky_Song, pm2isfade, Ephemeral_Is_The_Light, scribblepaws, Ming028, lotsaflannel, Irisfox, hoshiasobu, Zephiraya, LilyWhite22, Eleature, kiodai777, obliviouseloquence, ViridisNox, SnickyPocky27, xlxeclipse, florienna, Just_Here_To_Observe, Little_Angel, Sam_08, prussianpanda, Cersesi, AeroAerial, peaachami, mangagirl64, LikeAMajesticFuckingEagle, koneji, DG_aka_Demon_Gurl_01, Of_Stories_Told, keldeska, Sanzaki_Miya, scink, memadiga, loki_avalon, bribright91, rowan1025, little_manatee, kit123, Kittenlzlz, Freekislydumb, RainAmbrosius, A_Z_C, ColdColors, Summercloud, Wanderer_Brown_Sheep, bookchan, CreatePeaceFromChaos, gyor0, Ryahwolfe, kakuhou, aHostileRainbow, aoutrance, RavenQueen, miltoran, PurpleButtons0203, Acacia_Zane, CybrEmly01, Lazycat358, Beauty_in_decay, KrakenAntlers, CosmicRipple_Titan, threedices, Alara16, NervousOwl, AzureLazuli, MsMumpsimus, TurpinSoup, galleryofstars, Razia, Swedishluck, Shadowfey913, Student_Of_Accounting, Kyrrh, Ashakra, Suki_Enogawa, Aleise, bludnoemoloko, Shadowblayze, Guise_n_Disguise, Wolf_Sings_on_a_Moonless_Night, SciurusPilot, Tangy_Citrus, CircleCautious, BloodFilledPages, Rin_Kuroi, NarglesOnHerTongue, Neceros, SwordsandRoses, ramber, Sezzy626, FakeFlowers, DearestShadow85, nymmiah, theatis, Rockgirl_Luvs_Fanfiction, BiblioMatsuri, Yuurix3, Black_no_sugar, ArkadyNekozukii, audaciousDreamer, unnspired, ShutInBookWorm, MidnightJynx1813, XxSilenceOfTheNightxX, Consuelo, AbstractImriel, RinRin, ensei, foxandfriends, aoi24, Bundle_of_Sticks, CatherineADurr, hellbeast, FeminineBrain, Chimeara, nex_et_nox, bladeangel, MokuK, veereble_atsim_iali, RingerMaker, Fade, Coal, Lunahras, kamidukki, SecretLayers, Adriyel, Krisander, Irulanlady, Gyre, jonna594, Indigo_Nebula, DragonDjinnie, brightnail, infidel, CryingDevil, Angie_Dawn, Zabyth, DarkDrakan0000, Lolle, Soras, fluffydono, Phayre, kitsunekiri, grapes, WolftheForsaken, Code_00, ninasafiri, Skogstroll, withadashofmilk, KageNoAi, Anaime, KittyChan, NauLana, starfield, lilacalosa, FirstLife, MusicHenni133, Ierrei, cephalopodTriumph, RavensShadow, Draconikenna, PrideViola, MarsPrime, noctiscorvus, Limericks, Mazura, silver_magiccraft, Felicis, erimies, astrakage, Rekishichizu, Mirae, jeleania, Tsume28, wynnebat, Hyacinthium, aniaorome, Barrel, NobleLady, mineures, MsLilly, BlueMew, Sevter, Almighty_Tallest, Nwyd, AyumiFey, Hiruma_Musouka, A_Paula, Kurara, Povlyn, Lynshan, TerminallyCagey, PunsterZero, Violett, OpulentHand, HawthornShadow, PancakeKarli, leakh, Anaerobie, peaceful_fury, Yaoiizsmexy, robina852, Kushkushi, Glaive, Constantly_Oscitating, Makumaki, yirna, KizunaChaos, dwammy, order_of_chaos, Mesonoxian, Winglessdragon101, OnlyHitsuzen, goldchild2, Anubis_Faith, pig, Serenissima, Petaldancer, Kitiara_Woodbane, bombayneko, Serpens_arcanem, yumeniai, moon01234, azurefire, Painted_Purple, U_can_tell_he_is_evil_by_the_backwards_A, quasaris, astarcalledspica, Amaya_Ishimoto, AmberLynx, Tintin, Coldwatercoldair, aquashadow16, MidnightRaven, electric, BlueBadger, Vucari, missherlocked, Le_Faey, spellhorn, DitzyDeity, RahDamon, Kysna, libbygirl, TomKat, KnightAsphodel, Luki, Nira, beginner5, the_little_prince, Vroomian, xaephan, cosmosqueen, brightsun89, kagehana_tsukio, BlueB, Hanane_EL_Mokkadem, y_uu, so1thought, bb1213, thatoneperson, Kitaya_Li, lalamoize, Lanerose, Nova_Discord, imaginaryWarrior, Nomono, sablin27, Niiselin, Wolf37, rainniedays, Kallipso, Night_Owl123, Complicittuba, inkwellofstars, Sparrowsverse, sharksinsunglasses, shini_tenshi, Mellie2605, youka, history, finry, hailynx, Catkyn, shadowfox2217, alatarielz, ailes_de_cire and Kohanita
             as well as 
          1245 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          This work's creator has chosen to moderate comments on the work. Your comment will not appear until it has been approved by the creator.
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
