      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Bottling everything up until it explodes
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      No Fandom
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Words Are Better Spoken Out Than Left Unsaid
      by
      Scarlet_Nin
      Fandoms:
      鬼滅の刃 | Kimetsu no Yaiba (Manga), 鬼滅の刃 | Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba (Anime)
 Not Rated
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 Gen
 Complete Work
    26 Mar 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsAgatsuma Zenitsu &amp; Hashibira Inosuke &amp; Kamado TanjirouKamado Tanjirou Hashibira Inosuke Agatsuma Zenitsu Kamado NezukoFound Family Team as Family Insecurity teasing gone wrong Emotional Hurt/Comfort Hashibira Inosuke is Bad at Feelings Agatsuma Zenitsu Is Weak For His Friends Kamado Tanjirou is a Ray of Sunshine Unhealthy Coping Mechanisms Bottling everything up until it explodes Facing flaws
    Summary
      Inosuke has a lot of talents. Hunting, fishing, skinning animals and creating fires. He knows which berries are tasty and which ones killed weaker animals. What plants made your skin all itchy upon touching them. He's the best at everything involving nature and survival.So, who cares if he can't write? Zenitsu's pretty handwriting won't save him from a beating. "It's just teasing." Tanjiro insists but he’s sure teasing in the way Tanjiro described it to him shouldn’t twist his heart like this. "Don't take it to heart.""Whatever!" He growls, turning away to stomp off in a fit of temper. Writing was a waste of time! What use is the ability to write a bunch of letters if he can’t read them? But the words don't make it out.He doesn’t want stupid Bonitsu to make fun of him again.Inosuke doesn't know when Zenitsu got the power to hurt him with words but he knows he hates the way he feels when he's being called an idiot. So, he keeps his mouth shut, hoping to take his secret to the grave. He won't give Kenitsu another reason to talk down on him. Because no matter what he insists on, Inosuke isn't dumb. He isn't.It works until Zenitsu brings it back up.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    3,714
    Chapters:
    1/1
    Comments:
    16
    Kudos:
    127
    Bookmarks:
    21
  Hits:
  575
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
