      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    more characters are to come
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      No Fandom
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Baby please don't leave me
      by
      Hetaliafan2000
      Fandoms:
      Hetalia: Axis Powers
 Mature
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings, No Archive Warnings Apply
 M/M, Multi, Other
 Work in Progress
    24 Feb 2019
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings No Archive Warnings ApplyAmerica/Iceland (Hetalia)Iceland (Hetalia) America (Hetalia) Scandinavia (Hetalia) Denmark (Hetalia) Norway (Hetalia) Sweden (Hetalia) Female Finland (Hetalia) Switzerland (Hetalia) Liechtenstein (Hetalia) England (Hetalia) France (Hetalia) Canada (Hetalia) Hong Kong (Hetalia) Taiwan (Hetalia) South Korea (Hetalia) Seychelles (Hetalia)scandinavia is an oc more characters are to come Alternate Universe - Modern Setting Alternate Universe - High School Alternate Universe - Human Alternate Universe - Gender Changes Nyotalia punk!Iceland only he is acutually a dork he just doesn't show it much Iceland is in love with boots and has a lot of them Like A Lot A Lot At some point characters are mentioned but not really in here And have no point to be in here except as a background character Oops Arthur is slowly going to mother Iceland Arthur probably sees a little of himself in Emil Author regrets slow update sorry - Freeform Arthur was a punk And most would call Emil a punk so theres that Oh No Emil's sick Alfred and Arthur to the rescue Alfred your going to get pucked on You Dumb Dumb Metions of drugs and use of drugs and almost rape also bad coping methods and suicide. Warning are in chapters for it so read at own risk really Iceland knows how to play the guitar Its a Thing I explain I should probably tage this as slow burn Maybe - Freeform
    Summary
      Emil didn't want to be here, not in this country, not in this house, and not in this school. but here is his and he cant change it. but maybe that cute blonde kid that sits in front of him will change his mind. follow Emil as he tries to get through school, a crush(because that's what it is) and meeting up with old ex? uh oh.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    37,240
    Chapters:
    18/?
    Comments:
    3
    Kudos:
    26
    Bookmarks:
    3
  Hits:
  553
      All the times Tony Stark babysat three high school students, a super powered teenager, a princess and a tree
      by
      DearHeatherMell
      Fandoms:
      Marvel Cinematic Universe, Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Black Panther (2018), Guardians of the Galaxy (Movies), Iron Man (Movies)
 Teen And Up Audiences
 No Archive Warnings Apply
 F/F, M/M
 Work in Progress
    25 Dec 2019
  Tags
    No Archive Warnings ApplyPeter Parker &amp; Shuri Michelle Jones/Shuri Shuri &amp; Groot Harley Keener/Peter Parker Harley Keener &amp; Peter ParkerPeter Parker Shuri (Marvel) Michelle Jones Ned Leeds Tony Stark T'Challa (Marvel) Groot (Marvel) Peter Quill Gamora (Marvel) Drax the Destroyer Mantis (Marvel) Rocket Raccoon Okoye (Marvel) Steve Rogers Harley Keener Kraglin Obfonteri Remy LeBeau Jubilation Lee Laura Kinney Jean Grey Scott Summers Ororo Munroe Kitty Pryde Kurt Wagner Rogue (X-Men) Miles Morales Lila Bartonmore characters are to come vine references McDonald's Tags along the way hopefully First couple chapters will always be bad Infinity war ain't here Screw that Marriage Proposal Wedding hell yeah Disney Movies Help Shuri and Groot they didn't deserve it Angst Avengers: Infinity War Part 1 (Movie) Spoilers Post-Avengers: Infinity War Part 1 (Movie) I lied Infinity War is here ish Its not good Did I mention swearing? Swearing Lots of it Walmart my low point to tag Walmart mentions of GoT and WD so that's fun Crack this story is the definition of crack Road Trips Peter Parker is extra beach Day At The Beach Harley is 17 and Pete is 16 This is a headups just in case
    Summary
      Stories (probably) of times when Tony Stark had to take care of six teenagers. One of which is Spider-Man, ones a princess, ones a mechanic and one that is a tree.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    31,228
    Chapters:
    23/?
    Comments:
    149
    Kudos:
    856
    Bookmarks:
    103
  Hits:
  15771
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
