      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
  Skip header
Actions
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               A3! (Video Game)
              Relationship:
               Chigasaki Itaru/Tsukioka Tsumugi
              Characters:
               Chigasaki ItaruTsukioka Tsumugi
              Additional Tags:
               rantfic“i kin both of them so i’m rping with myself”Hurt/ComfortAngstwoooo kintimeauthor is a filthy kinnie
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-08-25Words:1145Chapters:1/1Kudos:22Hits:146
      losing his passion
      promiswords
          Summary:
              Itaru stared blankly at the console. He had played this game countless times. It felt heavy, like it was tiresome to continue on further.
  Notes:
      this is kind of a rant - i kin itaru so ahhaha projection i guess. i also kin tsumu so wow i kin both of them!! im rping with myself …. i welcome all of you to what i think about a lot .. sorry if there r grammar errors i gave up halfway this is mainly a release … anyways if you see this ! welcome ^__^
i don’t know how to warn this really, it’s somewhat depressing? i guess? uuuu just … it’s basically my rant account but in fic form 
i’m not too sure but better safe than sorry.
trigger warning: anxiety attack
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
        Work Text:
  ::
It was a gloomy night. Thunder was echoing in the distance and the occasional lightning would momentarily blind the gamer sat on his bed with his boyfriend napped beside him. The only light source was his laptop beside him and the switch console in his hands. 
Itaru stared blankly at the console. He had played this game countless times. It felt heavy, like it was tiresome to continue on further. His heart was pounding in his chest to the point that he couldn’t even decipher the music he was blasting. Was it another game soundtrack? An anime one? Whatever it was he can’t seem to focus on it - all he could hear was the quickened heartbeat and all he could feel was this emptiness. 
No. 
  No. 
This can’t be happening to him. One of the few things he takes pride in. One where he could feel free from the restraints he had everywhere else. One where he felt comfortable. Happy.
Gone. 
He should have seen it coming - the signs were there. His lack of interest in tiering in any game. His sudden laziness in getting a perfect combo. His staring at the device he starts up without even opening any game. His subscribers notice it too - in his streams they would ask why it seemed like taruchi was getting less intense. They heard it in his voice and saw it in his gaming. 
He was getting tired.
No. 
  He can’t be.
Itaru refused to accept that his passion just disappeared. He couldn’t. It’s one of the things he’s amazing at while being proud of at the same time. He can’t just let it go. He won’t accept this. 
But it’s not like he had a choice.
He focused on the game with an intense feeling - he can’t exactly pinpoint what it was but it made him feel sick. It no longer was the positive rush of serotonin he gets when gamed. It was a feeling of selfishly wanting something he had lost - his passion and happiness in gaming.
He played the game, knowing exactly where to place his units so they can counterattack the enemies. However, as he progressed there was still nothing. Even as he won the battle, he felt nothing. 
He stared at the MVP screen. It was a character that he related to a lot. She had an overbearing older brother who excelled so much that everyone expected the same from her... if not, more. She was a powerful unit, but she was lazy. Only doing things she wanted and if not, she’d simply do the bare minimum.
The gamer who was lost in thought noticed how he can’t even see the character properly anymore. Her pink hair was a somewhat shaky blob in his vision. 
Since when did his surroundings get so blurry?
When did everything go dark?
He felt a hand on his back and soft whispers in his ear. 
Itaru was crying, his sobs wracking his body. 
Everything was overwhelming. The thunder, the lightning, his feeling of emptiness, his heartbeat, the harsh light of his two gadgets. All of it. The only calming presence he could feel was his boyfriend.
“Focus on my voice, Itaru,” the blue-haired boy said softly and encouragingly, trying to anchor him.
  ::
When Tsumugi woke up he didn’t expect to see his boyfriend just staring blankly at his switch. Doing absolutely nothing aside from staring. He knew his boyfriend would usually smirk or even cheer whenever he wins a game. What more was that he didn’t expect his boyfriend to start sobbing. It was quiet at first but him shaking was hard to ignore - it startled him even. Then after a few seconds it became worse. Itaru had let go of his switch and his knees went up as he buried his face into them. 
His hands slid up to the side of his head by his ears, covering them while his fingers clawed at his scalp. 
Tsumugi took action, he drew circles on his back with his hand and whispered to Itaru to try and calm him down.
“Itaru, I’m here,” he started, his voice was still groggy, “Focus on me. My touch. My voice.”
It had no effect - so he continued.
“Focus on my voice, Itaru,” he commanded, not too harshly that it’ll aggravate him but enough to hopefully overpower his other senses. 
This had an effect on him - his shaking slowered. It didn’t stop completely but significantly enough.
He stopped drawing circles for a bit to grab the blanket he was using and wrapped it around his shaking boyfriend. After this was done, Tsumugi took one of his hands into his own and started to draw circles once more.
“Name five things you can see around you,” he urged him softly. 
He noticed how Itaru took in a deep breath and was silent for a while before answering, “The railing for the bunker, the door to this room, my switch, the stupid kyogre keychain we got and my work clothes hung and ready for tomorrow.”
His voice was raspy, even occasionally stopped by a hiccup or him sniffing. It was like he cried for a long time - which… he did. But then again, he couldn’t tell. Tsumugi didn’t know how long he was staring in shock at his boyfriend and Itaru didn’t know how long he was lost in his thoughts and even when he started crying exactly.
“Good,” the winter troupe leader said, “four things you can feel.”
Itaru gave a happy hum - or tried to, at least. “Your hand, calming me. The blanket you wrapped me in. My… hand scratching the opposite arm… The stinging on my scalp from where I pulled my hair a while ago…”
Tsumugi gave him a worried side glance, he couldn’t see his arms since the only light source then was the laptop on the opposite side of Itaru and the said guy was also wrapped in a blanket. 
“Ok, three things you can hear,” his boyfriend continued.
“The pouring rain outside, the thunder in the distance… and… your voice,” Itaru answered. He stopped Tsumugi’s ministrations on his hand by holding his and leaned on his shoulder. With a smile, Tsumugi gave an encouraging squeeze with his right hand as his left went to Itaru’s soft curls, massaging the part where he pulled on his hair.
“Two things you can smell,”
“The rain and… your… shampoo? Just… you,” he said, his voice slowly regaining clarity from each answer.
Tsumugi kissed his boyfriend’s hand, “you’re doing great… lastly, one thing you can taste.”
“The aftertaste of the cola was chugging a while back,” he chuckled. Regaining his senses, or at least enough that the overwhelming feelings weren’t as powerful.
They sat in comfortable silence, sharing small innocent kisses on each other’s hands. They’d talk about it later, but for now, they’ll just enjoy being alone together.
  ::
  Notes:
  if anyoneis reading this i really don’t know if i even wrote the coping part right...no one has ever done that for me . i usually suck it up and just go to sleep to forget stuff …. i know itaru probably wouldnt have calmed down so fast but ouhdfddf damn i wish that happens to me when i go ???? and start thinking  about . So many things … but my brain just goes by so fast and sometimes it just changes topic real quick
  Actions
      ↑ Top
  Comments
          hak, Okami06, Majorbubs, afterdust, snowkaraage, 4OfSpades, Sad_Goat_Noises, sunsongs, MelancholysWritings, sadcatsyndrome, and iiMuffinsaur
             as well as 
          11 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
