      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
  Skip header
Actions
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Major Character Death
              Categories:
               GenF/MM/M
              Fandom:
               文豪ストレイドッグス | Bungou Stray Dogs
              Relationships:
               Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)/ReaderDazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs) &amp; Reader
              Characters:
               Kunikida Doppo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)Armed Detective Agency Ensemble (Bungou Stray Dogs)Nakajima Atsushi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Tanizaki Junichirou (Bungou Stray Dogs)Tanizaki NaomiNakahara Chuuya (Bungou Stray Dogs)ReaderEdogawa Ranpo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Yosano Akiko (Bungou Stray Dogs)Akutagawa Ryuunosuke (Bungou Stray Dogs)
              Additional Tags:
               AngstFluffI'm SorrySuicideRomanceOuchBittersweet Ending
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-09Words:793Chapters:1/1Kudos:4Hits:34
      a lover's promise
      clownkilling
          Summary:
              this story is kinda old nd was written in ~an hour !!!
  Notes:
      TRIGGER WARNING FOR SUICIDE. DO NOT READ IF YOU ARE UPSET BY THE TOPIC
        Work Text:
  tw: suicide. 
  24 hours left
"dazai-san, do you have a pen I could borrow? I wanna draw." you asked the brunet, tilting your head to the side and examining his desk.
this was a peculiar situation, really. last week, you had agreed to his "lover's suicide", but you still don't know why you agreed.
"mmm...check the top drawer, there might be a few you could take!" he chirped back happily. almost as if he had forgotten about tomorrow. "oh, and make sure to write your will!" he giggled, smiling wide at you.
this was the happiest you had seen him, ever. though to be fair, you were kind of happy too.
  12 hours left
"kunikida-chan wants me to run an errand for him, so i'll be back soon!" is what dazai had told you.
"hey...kuni? you didn't actually have dazai-san run your errands, did you?" you tapped your chin, looking directly at the tall blond. "I mean, you don't have a mission assigned to you."
"what? no! of course I didn't have that suicidal brat run my errands. why?" he gave you an annoyed look, pushing his glasses up with his middle finger.
  so, he lied. 
"oh, no reason! I guess I heard him wrong then." you waved your hands in apology, saying good-bye and walking back to your desk, focusing on your paperwork.
  6 hours left
"dazai~~" you teasingly called to the male, pouting and patting your lap. "come sit with me, please?"
he looked up from his microwavable dinner, some food stain on the corner of his lips. "eh? why would I do that." dazai smiled mentally, the offer was really tempting.
  but he couldn't.
  he couldn't get attached this late into the game. 
"im sorry [y/n]-chan! I gotta finish eating, and then i have to go write my will!" he shook his head, laughing. "besides, we'll have all the time together later."
that's right. all the time. for eternity.
"hmph. whatever!" you sighed and got up from your chair, stomping away in defeat. "you're just mean! you should be on your knees thanking me for even agreeing to your stupid suicide plan!"
"whatever you say, [y/n]-chan!"
  1 hour left
you sat on the rooftop with dazai, wearing his coat. his head was propped up against your shoulder, sitting in silence, the only thing making noise were the cars passing by down below.
"what if chuuya-chan suddenly appears out of nowhere and catches us?" you broke the silence, feeling oddly uncomfortable. "I mean, he doesn't even know about what we're doing but…" you trailed off, maybe you didn't want to go through with this after all.
"haha! you're funny, [y/n]~~. even if he did know, he'd probably only save you." he pushed himself off of you and walked closer towards the edge, sighing and turning back around to face you. "say, let's do it now! who needs to wait an extra hour?"
"no. we made a promise for 11:00pm. sorry!" you smiled back, clapping your hands together in a somewhat aggressive manner. "anyways, let's just enjoy the view! it'll be the last time we see it, after all."
shrugging, he walked back to you and sat in your lap, his head resting against your shoulder once more, back pressed up against your chest, you wrapped your arms around his waist, you two just sat like that, once again in silence.
  last time you two will see it, huh?
  5 minutes left
you two were holding each other's hand, standing at the very edge of the building top. not saying a word, just watching the people below and feeling the wind every now and then.
"do you want your coat back, dazai?"
"no, keep it on. you look good in it." he said in a monotone voice, though you knew he was being kind. "besides, I think it'll look even better with your blood on it!"
ah, there was the dazai osamu you knew.
"anything you say, dazai."
there was silence for the next four minutes, still just standing there on the edge.
  1 minute left
"hey… I love you, dazai. and i'm glad i'm doing this with you." you turned to look at him in the eyes, smiling.
"...I love you too, [y/n]. thank you for this." he looked back at you, leaning in for a kiss.
you two were kissing, then falling.
it was a blur, really. the last thing you remember was the taste of candy on his lips, and how soft they were.
  "see you soon, dear." 
//////
hi ok I wrote this in like an hour but idk I think it's bittersweet I love dazai and 100% would do a lover suicide with him. sujsjfjg hope y'all enjoyed :) 
  Actions
      ↑ Top
  Comments
          chaiscola
             as well as 
          3 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
