      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Fate
2. Fate 2
3. Accident
4. Mishap
5. Possibility
6. Trouble
7. Aftermath
8. Wake
9. Undercontrol
10. Nightmare
11. Motherhood
12. Fatherhood
13. Overture
14. Break
15. Homeschooling
16. Casey Jones
17. Wishful thinking
18. Shut up and Drive
19. Refrain
20. Heist
21. Escape
22. Denial
23. Interphase
24. Prophase
25. Metaphase
26. Anaphase
        Full-page index
      Comments 
        Hide Creator's Style
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Graphic Depictions Of Violence
              Category:
               F/M
              Fandoms:
               TMNT (2007)Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles - All Media TypesTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Bay Movies)Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TV 2012)
              Relationships:
               Michelangelo (TMNT)/YouLeonardo (TMNT)/YouRaphael (TMNT)/ReaderDonatello (TMNT)/ReaderDonatello/April O'Neil (TMNT)Casey Jones/April O'Neil (TMNT)Original character &amp; youMichelangelo (TMNT)/ReaderLeonardo (TMNT)/Reader
              Characters:
               Raphael (TMNT)April O'Neil (TMNT)Donatello (TMNT)Shredder (TMNT)Leonardo (TMNT)Michelangelo (TMNT)Splinter (TMNT)YouScientistsThe Kraang (TMNT)Original Child Character(s)Mutants - CharacterBaxter StockmanReaderMugen
              Additional Tags:
               I'll probably add more tags as i go?My First FanficPlease Don't Kill MeFluffAged-Up Character(s)AngstDomestic Fluff
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2019-10-12Updated:2020-10-01Words:100547Chapters:26/?Comments:109Kudos:309Bookmarks:50Hits:6633
    #workskin .indent{padding:0 5em 0 5em}#workskin .book{margin:0 auto;text-indent:3em}#workskin .dropcap{font-family:Georgia,serif;font-size:3em}#workskin .flashback{font-style:italic}#workskin .caps{font-variant:small-caps}#workskin .spoiler{background:#333;color:#333}#workskin .border{border:1px solid}#workskin .font-serif{font-family:Cambria,Constantia,Palatino,Georgia,serif}#workskin .font-sansserif{font-family:'Lucida Grande',Verdana,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif}#workskin .font-monospace{font-family:consolas,courier,monospace}#workskin .font-big{font-size:120%}#workskin .font-small{font-size:80%}#workskin .align-right{text-align:right}#workskin .align-center{text-align:center}#workskin .align-justify{text-align:justify}#workskin hr.third{width:33%;margin:auto}#workskin hr.full{width:auto;margin:auto}#workskin .font-red{color:red}#workskin .font-orange{color:#ffa500}#workskin .font-yellow{color:#ff0}#workskin .font-green{color:green}#workskin .font-blue{color:#00f}#workskin .font-purple{color:purple}#workskin .font-white{color:#fff}#workskin .font-black{color:#000}#workskin .font-pink{color:#ffc0cb}#workskin .font-teal{color:#008282}#workskin .font-redbrown{color:#a15000}#workskin .font-cherryred{color:#e00707}#workskin .font-brickred{color:#a10000}#workskin .font-dimorange{color:#f2a400}#workskin .font-murkyyellow{color:#a1a100}#workskin .font-jade{color:#4ac925}#workskin .font-dimgreen{color:#008141}#workskin .font-leafgreen{color:#1f9400}#workskin .font-darkolive{color:#416600}#workskin .font-dimblue{color:#005682}#workskin .font-midblue{color:#0715cd}#workskin .font-mediumskyblue{color:#00d5f2}#workskin .font-darknavy{color:#000056}#workskin .font-lightpurple{color:#f141ef}#workskin .font-midviolet{color:#b536da}#workskin .font-verydarkpurple{color:#2b0057}#workskin .font-darkplum{color:#6a006a}#workskin .font-darkmaroon{color:#77003c}#workskin .font-reallydarkgray{color:#626262}  
      Coincidence and Fate
      JellyonAo3
      Chapter 26: Anaphase
        Notes:
          Double update because it's one of my favorite holidays and I feel like celebrating.
    Chapter Text
    Against better judgement Leo decides to bring you back to your room rather than the lab, he nudges it open, lightly jostling you with the movement, you groan as he immediately stills, afraid he'd woken you up, when you don't, he sighs in relief, gently laying you down on your bed.Well you're not waking up as fast as the last time, then again, he didn't knock you out before, oh, he didn't hit you on the head too hard, did he? He swears he held back.He carefully tilts your head to the side, checking for a telltale sign of a bump, his hands combing down your scalp in search for where he had hit, ouch, okay there it is, relatively small but definitely a bump.He should get some ice, but he can't just leave you alone here, what if you woke up and you weren't yourself? But he might as well get the swelling down first. With that thought in mind, he practically does a sprint to the kitchen then back. Everytime he takes his eyes off you, you get yourself into trouble, and honestly, he'd rather you be safe on his watch.A bag of frozen peas in hand, and his sheathed katana at ready, he cautiously enters your room, only to find you still asleep, he eases the tension on his shoulders, carefully placing the bag of peas under your head, as he sits on the floor.Should he have brought you to the lab? Maybe. 
He didn't understand why, but when Donnie said you were like Karai, it didn't sit well with him, not liking the idea that you'd ever become like her after your mutation.Something odd catches his attention, eyes flickering towards your hands. 
Taking your hand to give it a closer look, he notices you've grown your nails slightly longer, smoothly polished it black, huh...How'd he not notice you wore it recently? Turning your palm against his, he can't help but notice how soft your hands are against his calloused ones, despite the bandages. 
His thumb brushes along your recent scars, these are the signs of his failure to protect you. Tracing along your bandage absentmindedly, you felt so delicate. As if you don't belong in this world, his world. He knows your time with them was ending, you have to go back to your life above the city, but was it selfish for him to want to keep you here with them a little longer? Yes. It was, because you were suffering the longer you stayed here with them."Leo?"His heart just leaped out of his chest. You were awake. And you're you."Are you alright? Does it hurt anywhere? how are you feeling?" He fusses around you worriedly. You stop him by taking his hand, "I'm fine...just cold." You shift uncomfortably as he realizes the bag of peas you've been using as a pillow was still there, he takes it away, your eyes following his movements, but saying nothing about it."Leo?""Yeah?" You suddenly look so guilty, he frowns with the realization that you might've been aware of what just transpired."Did... did something strange happen when er...before I blacked out?""What do you mean?""Did I do something strange? ...Or violent?"You don't know.This suddenly confirms his worst fears. If you do mutate, they'll lose you. He can't let it happen.He does his best to imitate a smile, "...nothing we couldn't handle, you should rest, I'll talk with you when you're feeling better.""Wait!" You try your best to sit up, before holding your head with a pained wince."You should lie dow-""You didn't answer my question. "He has to go, he can't stress you out, last thing he wants is to be the trigger to your mutation. "We'll talk later, you have to rest first."You look at him unconvinced, but the headache seems to be winning because you don't get up. "Promise?" He sighs giving you, what he hope is an assuring smile, "promise."You lie back down with a huff, as he shuts off the lights of your room.Now, he needs to call April.—"Yeah, okay, I'll tell her- what no, I'm not, April, please, I don't know who else to ask... Yeah, okay. Thank you." He ends the call with a sigh, feeling a headache coming along. He's just glad April had agreed without further interrogation, granted he got scolded about it. Now, how to break it to you without it sounding like he's kicking you out?"Leo, bro, you're about to start melting the TV with your laser eye beams like that." As Mikey plops down beside him on the couch, a bag of popcorn and remote in hand.He blinks, not realizing until Mikey pointed it out."Is she alright? Did you tell her yet?" Donnie comes out the lab with armful of materials making his way to the tank.He shakes his head, "She woke up earlier and she seemed fine, told her we'd talk after she rests...""Did you even gave her a heads up?""No."Donnie scrunches his brows in confusion, "Isn't April coming by later?"He closes his eyes in resignation, "She is.""Either you tell her or one of us is going to, and trust me. We're not the best choices in breaking any news."He's right, Leo knows he was just stalling, unlike him to stall, but with you, nothing was ever like what he's used to."Look on the bright side.... " Mikey comments, mindlessly scanning through the channels.They both wait for the rest of what he was going to say when he doesn't continue, "what is it?"Mikey finally looks up shrugging, "Dunno, just look for it."
  'Helpful.'
"I don't know how to tell her."Donnie snorts, " You're over thinking this, it's not like you're telling her that you like her?"He looks at Don with wide eyes, beside him Mikey starts coughing, pounding a fist on his plastron trying to dislodge the popcorn that went to the wrong pipe.Like you? Of course he likes you, platonically. Right? The statement suddenly catching him off guard, before realizing his brother was joking, even with a screwdriver in his mouth he could see the telltale grin on his face.He rolls his eyes, a childish gesture of denial, "Really? Then why don't you tell her then." Giving Mikey a hard pat on the shell effectively making him spit out a soggy kernel.Donnie gives Leo a wry look, "I already said we suck at breaking new-" the sound of your door clicking open alerts them, they exchange a quick glance, conveying only one message. He has to tell you and it has to be now.You emerge from the hall not long after, clearly not expecting their presence from the look on your face,"Uh...hey y/n? How's your nap?"You give Donnie a nervous look, twisting your hands behind you, "Fine, never been better!" You squeak out.You seem to be hiding your hands away from their view, your eyes flicking to him, Mikey and back to Donnie.Donnie shoots him a meaningful look, clearing his throat, he stands up, "Er...Y/n wanna come with? I need to do a perimeter check on the sensors"You looked at him surprised, "Really? I can go out?"He rubs the back of his neck, he has to stop stalling, better late than never, he nods.—"That's great! I was gonna try and stretch my legs, y'know, hahah...er Let's go!"You beam, practically striding ahead towards the tunnels, deciding not to lag behind, incase Leo would change his mind and drag you back to the lab for a check up, clicking your nails together nervously. You eventually slow to a walk as the lights of the tunnels seem dimmer than the ones near the lair.You must be heading the right way because Leo doesn't comment, only knowing he's right behind you, if his sighs were any other indication of his presence.Though unsettled by the dark and the common scurrying vermin, you don't complain, instead keeping an eye out for anything resembling a security sensor.You woke up as if in a daze earlier, you practically had to do a full check on yourself for anything amiss, barely withholding a scream when you saw your fingernails, they were like a duller version of Mugen's talons, it could pass for nail polish but the results are nonetheless undesirable. You actually wanted to sneak into the lab to run a test, unfortunately, you got caught... now that you mention it why did Leo ask you for a walk?"Do you even know where you're going?"You almost jump off the platform and into the rails in fright as you whirl around to face the speaker.
  If I could put a bell on you, Leo, I swear I would.
"M-may maybe?" You squeak out an answer.He gives you a challenging look,"Is that so? Did you know we passed one by already?""Oh." If it was possible your cheeks grow hotter, ah well, what's another tally line to add to your growing list of embarrassing moments in front of the terrapin in blue?He chuckles, " You should be able to see them too in your T-phone."You quickly fish out your device as you fumble with it, on the screen you see a map of the underground, showing live feed of your position and a handful of dots scattered around the place. Upon closer inspection you realize you haven't  missed any, because the first one is just around the bend, Leo must've noticed your revelation because he bursts into chuckles, as you glare at him accusingly, "You said I missed one." "I didn't say you missed one, I only asked if you knew if we passed one by."  He says unapologetically with a shrug, a dimpled grin on his faceYour jaw drops, not expecting Leo of all people to pull a fast one on you."Okay, you got me, ha ha. What's that all about?" You cross your arms facing him, it's unlike him to throw a joke during something serious. He shrugs once again, rubbing the back of his neck,  "Nothing, you just seem deep in thought, that I just couldn't pass up the opportunity." As he moves forward, leaving you unable to pursue the topic further. You eventually arrive to the first sensor, he points it out among the debris of the tunnels, exchanging nothing but a few words. He seems distracted, glancing at you then looking away when you catch him. When you do ask, he just brushes it off with a half hearted excuse. You go like that for several more sensors. Seeing the next sensor, you were getting a little tired, your sides had begun aching unsurprisingly, you haven't exactly recovered from your injuries, but you thought you've recovered enough to circle a perimeter at least. He stops to check the sensor, "That's funny...it should have-", his eyes flicker to address you, but immediately stops to rush at you, fussing like a mother hen, "Y/n! What's wrong? Do you want to go back? I should've known this was too much for you..."You wave him off, "I'm fine, I'm fine! What's wrong with the sensor?"He backs off, hesitates, then directs your attention to the small radio looking device, high above the both of you "I can't exactly tell since it's kinda high up, but I think it's busted." You crane your neck to check and sure enough, it does seem like it's not working, "I'll call Don, he'll know how to fix it, though that would take us a while, were pretty far, in the tunnels and Donnie is meeting up with Casey by the docks." he mutters the last part to himself."Is that a bad thing?""Hm? Well not exactly, we just have to stay here before we could move on, we can't chance any blind spots for now,"You eye the tiny radio-like device, almost recognizing the wire patterns Donnie would habitually use on his blueprints, you see some wires knocked loose, maybe..."I think I can do it."  He looks at you incredulously, the T-phone in his hand, suddenly forgotten."Donnie seems to have a habit of using a familiar pattern on his wiring work, I could probably give it a temporary fix, Don will probably have to do the rest later." You explain.He seems to think about it, before nodding.You stare at the device for a while, not exactly inputting the problem of your height to the equation, but that sensor is definitely out of your reach, maybe there's a box somewhere you can stand on? Leo seems to have read your mind, when he blinks in realization "Oh! Right. Up you go." You withheld a yelp, as he hoists you to sit up his shoulder, suddenly feeling a little lightheaded at the sudden height. You knew the guys could carry you with ease but it still never fails to amaze you, you weren't exactly made of feathers."Is that any better? Or do you want to stand on my shoulders?"You shake your head, "This is good enough, thanks." You mumble embarrassed, his arm wrapped tightly around your legs to keep you from falling and his other hand on your lap to steady you.You focus your attention to the sensor, as you saw earlier, the wiring has been knocked loose, probably from sewer rats running along the edges, some even has some telltale chew marks.Your mouth twists to the side in thought, if you remember correctly...this goes here, and did donnie say blue wire is always over? and over here....A spark of electricity pops, licking at your fingertips, you jerk your hand back to avoid being electrocuted, clicking your tongue as if admonishing the wires, when you hear the soft whirr of the device, you couldn't help but smile triumphantly.
  Ha, so Donnie's teaching didn't go to waste after all.
"Is it working?""Hm? Oh! Leo, uh yeah." Leo was so quiet the entire time that you almost forgot who's shoulder you were perched on, looking down he seems to have realized that as well, "Don't tell me you forgot me?" He accuses playfully. Bingo. "N-no, I was just concentrating. You can put me down now, I think I got the device going." You say patting his arm.He raises a brow, mischief dancing on the surface of his eyes, "Nah, I think I'm gonna keep you up there as punishment. See if I could do some spring cleaning and catch some cobwebs around the area." Slightly giving you a shake, making you grip his arm tighter.Your eyebrows shoot up to your hairline,  He's not serious? Is he? the look on his eyes say otherwise, you sputter incredulously as he starts walking, "Leo! Hey! Put me down-ack" True enough, that was a spiderweb, thankfully empty...you think. Leo laughs, as you wipe your face. "Eugh, okay okay, I concede!" He stops, setting you down, "haha, I didn't expect you to literally catch a spider web with your face, you okay?'You make a face, " I dunno, feeling a little web-y and gross, but it's not like I got a mouthful of cobweb, now, did I?"He chuckles, helping you pluck out any spiderwebs you missed, his hands gentle as he tries his best to get them all out, "Okay okay, sorry bout that-" He halts abruptly, staring on top of your head, you feel your skin crawl, that's not a good look."What is it?" You turn your head, hoping to see what he saw."Uh... don't move, okay?" He was still staring atop your head.Oh, now you definitely want to move. "Leo, this isn't funny-""Well, probably not for that fella whose house you destroyed and you."You stiffen, staying absolutely still, then you feel it, a light feeling of something crawling on your head, slowly. You lose it, as you shriek, "Holy- Get it off me!"So much for composure, as Leo struggles to scoop it out your head, but you were flailing too much, jumping in hopes to knock the unwanted passenger off your head "Hold still, I can't get it off you if you keep waving me off it."He calls your attention more gently this time, something about his voice instantly reassures you. You do your best to hold still, and stamp down the fear coursing your veins, looking at Leo with terror filled eyes, he looks down at you only for him to do a double take, staring a beat longer."Did you get it?"That seems to snap him out of it with an embarrassed cough for staring, as you feel his hands brush by your hair scooping the little intruder and tussling your locks in the process, Leo opens his hands only for you to see the biggest spider you've ever seen, with legs longer than your finger, you almost cried. Almost. Sure, you could handle a spider or two, but that thing was spanning BOTH Leo's hands.He releases it back on the wall, where you both watch it skitter away, you let out a sigh of relief."Thanks, for not squishing it on my head...Leo?" You turn to see him distractedly looking at the wall."Huh? Oh, no problem, listen y/n, we need to talk."Uh oh... nothing good ever comes out with those lines.You swallow, feeling your mouth go dry, "Um sure, we're talking now, aren't we?"He sighs deeply, "About you staying with us... and I don't think we should be around you too much-"You feel like someone dropped a stone to your stomach, this wasn't a normal stroll, he set you aside to talk to you, as embarrassing as it is, how did you not notice that they don't want you in their house?"I need to go, right?" The words tumble out of your mouth before you could stop them, he did tell you before the heist you'd be moving soon after, but you thought they'd at least stay in your life."Y/n..." He was looking at you with guilty pity all over his face, and you hated it, it was the same one your parents had given you when you moved to the city."No, I understand, you told me I had to go after the heist,  I don't want to intrude on you and your family any further than I already had." You do you best to plaster your best no-biggie smile, even with the crushing feeling of being abandoned, they felt like home, and the feeling of living alone in the city just won't be the same."You didn't intrude, look, we enjoyed having you here-"You sigh heavily, "Leo, thank you, but I don't need your pity.""y/n...listen," You've learned to survive on your own, you could probably rent a room with your savings, but it feels a little too lonely to have them gone from your life. Leo forces you to look at him holding you by the shoulders, "Listen. You can't stay here not because we don't want you here.""Then why?" You didn't like how you sound so pathetic."Because the longer you stay with us the more mutant you become, and I can't let that happen to you. Not on my watch." His eyes burning with a determination that makes you stop.You furrow your brows, feeling the frustration build up, "You don't know if that's even true, it's just a theory-""I wouldn't, if I didn't see it for myself." He drags a weary hand down his face.Confusion must be painted on your face because he sighs, taking your hands, your new additions for both of you to see, " This isn't nail polish, is it?" You pull away, hiding your hands behind you, a lie on your tongue but what good would that do? You hesitantly nod."I can't let you turn into a mutant if there was something we could do to stop it. "That may be a pressing concern, but you still have to find a way to wake Mugen, stop Baxter from his plans and find Dr. Kolski, and the best place to do so unnoticed is in the lair."When?" He gives you a confused look, before realizing what you mean, he rubs the back of his neck, "Tonight."Your face falls, it's too soon for your liking, pursing your lips at the thought."Mugen-" "Is safe under our care. You can always come and check, but you can't stay for long.""That's unfair, you can't separate me from him.""He can't go with you in the state he's in and you need to stay as far away from mutants as possible, Mugen included. Please, Y/n, it's just until we find a solution. "Letting out a huff of resignation, you meet his gaze. "...how am I any safer above, than here with you guys?" ."You won't turn mutant, for one, and there's a million other people there, you can easily hide amongst their numbers. You have a life waiting for you Y/n and it's not down here with us mutants." "I don't want to leave Mugen..." The fight leaving you."I know.""I'll miss Master Splinter."He nods, letting you ramble on."Don""Mikey" "Raph" "You." You hear a sharp intake of breath, before you could look up, he takes you into a warm embrace.You wanted to push him away at the same time you don't. You were still frustrated, but you understand where he's coming from and it only makes you more upset at the situation. "We'll miss you too, y'know?"You allow yourself bask in his warmth before he lets you go, stepping away to give you some space, he surprises you when he turns around, crouching down, hands behind him, "Get on."You open your mouth to protest."You're tired, I can tell. Or do you prefer to catch cobwebs while on my shoulder?" You make a face, hesitantly climbing on his back, arms loosely wrapped around his neck, as he hoists you into a piggyback. Slowly making your way to the remaining sensors. On a different scenario, you would've found this nice, the warmth permeating from his shell, the steady gait he keeps, and the dim orange glow of the lights easily soothing your troubled thoughts."You'll let me know when I can visit, right?""Yeah...""Tell me when Mugen wakes up?"A nod from him. "Immediately. but for your own safety, and the lair's, don't come down if you don't have at least one of us with you, the place is a maze even with the T-phone's directions."You nod, even though he couldn't see you, suddenly feeling like this was goodbye. Ah darn. You're not gonna cry, dammit. If he noticed any of your sniffles he doesn't comment. —You both had returned to the lair, equally silent, not knowing what to say, until you utter a quick "I gotta go." Before rushing up to your room....guest room but who was he kidding? He hears a "whoah what's the rush babe- Y/n, are you okay-...."  Casey appears, a confused troubled look on his face, upon seeing him, he does a double take, looking back at the direction where you disappeared to and back to him, pointing questioningly. Leo shakes his head, "Don't."Casey scratches his head, before shrugging, "Aight, no comment, so watcha need me for? "Donnie emerges from the hall with a stack of papers in hand and his laptop. "Oh, you're back...how'd it go?"Awful."Better than I could ever hope for..." He feels like a mega jerk. Or in Raph's words, a massive asshole.Casey furrows his brows, "What, did you reject her or something?" Earning him a quick slap to the back of his head "Ow! A joke! It was a joke!" Rubbing where the blow had connected ."Thanks, Don." He mutters, not having the energy to deliver the slap himself as he plops down the nearest bean bag."Gladly." Donnie piles the papers in front of Casey as he shoots them a glare."I'll have you know, I had ta clean up your mess last week, do you even know how much chaos you've caused at the precinct? A lot. A bunch of tech guys kept yammerin' about giant masked turtles! I had to pull some strings to write it off as mass hysteria. I'm surprised that I'm even here!""Ya mean, you've ditched all your work t'some poor schmuck at the office, while ya lolly gag here." Raph comments, passing by towards the kitchen, Casey flips him the bird, to which Raph returns without looking at his direction. "Did you just say, 'lolly gag' you old timer?""Yeah, deal with it." Raph quips, tossing him a can of soda."Yeah... well, at least it was just paperwork!" He says defensively, popping the can open. On another day, he'd poke fun at the guy, but right now, he can't help but think about how he made you look at him like that, like he abandoned you.He did the right thing...right?He turns to the tank, 'Sport, you really need to wake up soon' before he makes more mistakes.
  Notes:
  I'll go ahead and apologize for any grammar corrections and spelling errors, I'm kinda new to this so...
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (7)
  Comments
          LittleMaMa, Tsula, KiraWilds, Kokokookiekat95, ShiftyShifter, OtherDelaware22985RB4, Sarla, Mousy_chu, Malikishtarismywaifu, Anayah050, 1Inkh1, EagleZombie, UniverseCipher, Lola14ismine, Peachiecandlesandpie, Starworksrly, ThoughtfulMusings, TaliaGalondel, Bella_BluePhoenix, Nightmare_24, TMNTReaper31, SilversunXD, SY_EX, deerkive, SweetCheeseCake879, PuffPuffPumpkin, Tytheguyudontno, iamwandalover, DragonOnSkis, ShinyRed, Ruru05, TheUknownPoster, Oceans_and_Constellations, Chibi_wolfie, MethIsSoFetch, Luan_berry, Revellie_92, DaddyFooot, Pineash10810, Food416, Lexicon3000, adoriblebeast, NaturaITea, miyuki_shara, Alswan, Mulangirl223, RirenBitch, Minjooie, Stardust_Mage, Queen_Haise_Sassan, 
               and 78 more users
            DemonessKneesocks, OwlsandCrows, prismatic_raindeer, asperfangirl, Kara_Clover, Pedernille, WolvesRKawaii, Lizzyg423, Rayofsunshine1432, Kaori13san, foxymonstrocity, Sk4nda, Shamelesscoward, LittleMissChicadie, simplytuna, Geargadgetrose, Sunafantasy, Teutonic_lisp, RoseDragmire, Frehya081101, Vulpinemaniac, Rainwing_Galaxy4611, asinglestrandofpasta, BookDragonNotBookWorm, Cryptically_cannon, SoullessWriting31, 3ldritch, Crystalbud, Some_Kitty_Whiskers, tastySprinkles, DoodleSnook, ChaoticHoneydew, Caitlin_Marie3505, Suzora15, Lily_Todoroki, TinyNorwegian, LunaDeath1, FeaDream, Xyna, Ash_the_Vixen, Storeyteller, m3llyt3lly, Lissydoll93, SpiderwithaTopHat, KostbareReh, HereNobody36, Haziel_luz, Tiktio, Devrius, Devo5201, BlueMoon17, 24_Night_fox_24, Jewels369, mushiishi, vanessa_lillian, LunaLustrix, nocturnalsleuth, Cobalt_Sphinx, fabula_rasa, Aggretsuko, Selin32227, etheratisha, Kyabetsu, sumnihil, forstnermunch, Hinatae, YgagxD, DemonWolf23154, CurlyCue, sleepin_peep, lostamonggalaxies, NorthernRam, maryjaneislarry, Pristina, Writer58, AHandsomeWitch, Punny_Fan and RedSnow100
             as well as 
          181 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
