      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandoms:
               Chinese Actor RPF陈情令 | The Untamed (TV) RPF
              Relationship:
               Wang Yi Bo/Xiao Zhan | Sean
              Characters:
               Wang Yi BoXiao Zhan | SeanOriginal Child Character(s)Original Female Character(s)Original Male Character(s)
              Additional Tags:
               Alternate UniverseFluffDomestic Fluffbjyx - FreeformTop Wang Yi Bo/Bottom Xiao Zhan | SeanImplied Sexual ContentWedding PlanningXZ and WYB parentsOCs are for their parentsDon't Like Don't ReadUnplanned PregnancyMpreg
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 7 of the The Lion, The Rabbit, and The Alternate Universe series
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-05Completed:2020-10-09Words:7644Chapters:2/2Comments:23Kudos:96Bookmarks:8Hits:893
      Who Cares, Baby? I Think I wanna Marry You.
      panda_desu
      Chapter 2
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    The houses they’re seeing are both very new and located in upcoming neighborhoods. One is very modern and ready to be moved into. They even offer to furnish the house and the house will be preinstalled with the latest security system. The other one, Xiao Zhan likes it more because even though it’s also a modern type, the developer purposefully left it semi finished. The new owner is offered either to let the developer finish with the basic design or they can request for another design that will suit the owner’s taste more. So in that neighborhood, only one or two houses look the same, the rests are all different in design and shape. Xiao Zhan loves this and his mind is already full of ideas. Without even considering the first house they saw, Xiao Zhan excitedly says that he will email the developer with his requests. Another plus point is that there’s a sizable park nearby with a children playground and running track. 
As Xiao Zhan wanders the house, confirming what he’d like to be done to the house, Wang YiBo settles the down payment with the agent.
After that, they meet their parents and Xiao Ying for another family lunch, this time complete with both Xiao Baba and Wang Baba. They have called their parents the night before, telling them their intention to register their marriage the next day. Both their mothers were freaking out at first, accusing them of jeopardizing their plan for the wedding. Somehow, Xiao Zhan managed to convince them that this way, they can continue on planning the wedding without worry. Both mothers were still freaking out because what will we tell our families about this?! Wang YiBo and Xiao Zhan rolled their eyes. It’s not like they elope or something. Moreover, they already have Xiao Ying. Wang YiBo is sure their families won’t be surprised to hear that they got married.
“Have you got your wedding rings?” Wang Baba asks as they eat. He says this like he wants to say that if they haven’t, of course he will buy them the rings.
Xiao Zhan blinks. “Ah.”
“Of course we have.” Wang YiBo makes a petulant and smug face at his father.
“We have?” Xiao Zhan turns to him in disbelief. Then he sees Wang YiBo pulling out a box from his pocket. Of course. “We have.” He confirms to his future father-in-law.
Wang Baba snorts, in the same way his son snorts. Xiao Zhan has to look down to swallow his laugh. He has to look up again because Wang YiBo is opening the box to reveal two matching rings inside. Wang Mama and Xiao Mama gasps. “They’re beautiful!” Xiao Baba also takes a look at the rings and nods.
Xiao Zhan is speechless. Wang YiBo really knows what Xiao Zhan likes and Xiao Zhan does like the rings. Unlike his engagement ring, their wedding rings are more simple; a combination of platinum and rose gold with their initials carved in a stylish way on the surface. Xiao Zhan really wants to kiss Wang YiBo. He usually refrains from showing PDA in front of their parents but this time, he can’t hold it in. He surges forward and kisses his fiance. Startled, Wang YiBo lets out a soft surprised sound before smirking against Xiao Zhan’s mouth and kisses him back.
*
Both Xiao Mama and Wang Mama continue on with the wedding plan with a new vigour. It’s like if before they hardly listen to anybody, now that their sons are legally married and have put their ring on their finger, literally nothing will stop them from giving their sons the best and proper wedding. They even follow Xiao Zhan and Wang YiBo around so they can kidnap them right away for a fitting or cake testing or food testing or flower choosing as soon as their schedule is open. Well, at least Xiao Zhan doesn’t have to worry that nobody is going to look after Xiao Ying because both mothers don’t even spare their husbands from the shenanigans.
They manage to get away, one time. Wang YiBo’s second race on the international stage is in Japan. Xiao Zhan always says that he likes Japan and always wants to go visit the country, Wang YiBo includes him, Xiao Ying, and Wang Mama into his entourage. Xiao Zhan can’t help blushing that now Wang YiBo introduces him around with “This is my husband, Xiao Zhan.” 
The first three days are focused on Wang YiBo’s race. As a newcomer to the international race, Wang YiBo needs a lot of time to get used to the circuit. As soon as they land and settle themselves at the hotel, Wang YiBo kisses his husband and daughter then directly goes to the circuit. Xiao Ying is a bit fussy because this is her first long trip but thankfully not for long. As soon as she gets her nap, she’s calm and happy again. 
Wang YiBo places third on the podium and the team is going crazy about it. This is way better than their initial prediction. They only aimed for the top ten for Wang YiBo’s first races abroad. Local media are going crazy too about the newcomer (also going a little bit perplexed when Xiao Zhan comes over and Wang YiBo kisses him in front of everybody). At home, Wang YiBo placing third and his relationship status are trending on Weibo too. 
That night, Wang Mama takes Xiao Ying to sleep at her room so Wang YiBo and Xiao Zhan can do their little celebration. 
“Ge, let’s extend for a few days.” Wang YiBo tells Xiao Zhan after a round on top of the sheets. “I’ll take you and YingYing around.” 
“What? You’re an international racer now so you want to flex more by spoiling me?” Xiao Zhan lightly pinches Wang YiBo’s nipple.
Wang YiBo smirks. “Of course. Why wouldn’t I?”
Xiao Zhan rolls his eyes and kisses his husband. Husband. He still feels giddy about it but he won’t let Wang YiBo know about this.
*
The tailor frowns when he helps Xiao Zhan put on his wedding suit. It fits Xiao Zhan well. In fact, too fitting. 
“What’s wrong?” Xiao Zhan asks the tailor, a middle-aged man who Wang Mama refers to as ‘Xiao Wa-ge’. 
Xiao Wa-ge shakes his head, offering a disarming smile to his client. “Nothing. Maybe I measured you wrong the last time. It’s a bit tight, don’t you think?” He tugs on the lower part of the jacket. 
Xiao Zhan frowns. “Not really.” He pats the jacket. “It is a bit more fitting than I imagined. I’ll just lose some weight then.” Xiao Zhan assures him. “We only have a month. I don’t want to trouble you, Xiao Wa-ge. It’s my fault for coming so late.”
Xiao Wa-ge shakes his head. When he stands up, he’s the same height as Xiao Zhan and he has a youthful look about him. “No, no. I know you and YiBo are busy. It’s good that both your mother and mother-in-law insist for you not to see each other’s suit before your wedding day. Imagine if you have to match your schedule.”
Xiao Zhan wants to say that Wang YiBo actually is available today but he has taken the duty to be with Xiao Ying all day long while Xiao Zhan does his fitting. He doesn’t say anything because Xiao Zhan is quite superstitious too. He doesn’t even try to ask Wang YiBo to give him any hint about each other’s suit. He turns around and tries to move his arms around. “It seems I really need to lose weight. It’s a little bit too fit around the chest too.” He tells the tailor.
At the time, Xiao Mama enters the room and hears him. She walks toward his son standing in front of the floor-length mirror. “ZhanZhan, I told you to lay off some of those hotpot when you’re working.”
Xiao Zhan rolls his eyes. “Well, I can blame you for this, Ma. You keep sending food for me and YingYing.”
“They’re for YingYing!”
“Who told you to send so much food? YingYing is two and a half! Who do you think has to finish the rest?”
Xiao Mama rolls her eyes back at her son and reaches out to pats along Xiao Zhan’s chest and torso to check if Xiao Zhan really has gained more weight. Even if it’s the tailor’s fault (Wang Mama vouch for this tailor so, slim chance), it’s indeed easier for Xiao Zhan to either keep his current weight or lose two or three kilos. Xiao Wa-ge helps his client out of the jacket and Xiao Mama stares at her son who is currently only wearing a thin undershirt. Xiao Zhan does seem to be more curvy in certain areas but his waist is still very slim. She frowns as she pats her son’s chest. “ZhanZhan, you’re not pregnant again, are you?”
Xiao Wa-ge looks at his client who is gaping at Xiao Mama. “Ma. Don’t talk nonsense.”
One of Xiao Mama’s eyebrows goes up. “What nonsense? You have a husband.” 
Xiao Zhan opens his mouth to retort but quickly closes it again. When-- “Fuck.”
“Xiao Zhan!
“Sorry, Ma!” Xiao Zhan strides to the chair where he put his bag and pulls out his phone. He’s busy typing while still cursing mildly. He stops to put on his own shirt again, then continues typing furiously again.
Xiao Wa-ge turns to Xiao Mama. “I will make alterations. Whatever the result, your ZhanZhan will look fabulous. Don’t worry about the cost, dajie.”
“Ah. Would you? You’re a savior, Xiao Wa.”
*
Xiao Zhan should be meeting Wang YiBo and Xiao Ying for lunch right after he’s finished with fitting but her mother’s accusation really throws him off. He’s now standing in his bathroom in his apartment, leaning against the vanity. His phone is placed side by side with two white sticks, showing a ticking timer. When the timer strikes two minutes, he slides the button to turn it off and looks at the sticks. Both sticks have two thin blue lines displayed on.
Xiao Zhan closes his eyes and takes a deep breath. His mind works backtracking their sexual activity and finally stops at the memory of a particular night in a traditional hotel in Osaka several months ago. Xiao Zhan can’t help but blush at the memory. He shakes his head. Twice he let himself lose control, twice he ended up pregnant. He wonders if this is also one of the ridiculous things love made people do? No matter how horny or needy or wanting, he was never like this with his former lovers. Then again, Wang YiBo is not just his lovers, is he? Wang YiBo is the man Xiao Zhan gives his heart to, the man he married and committed himself to.
He takes another big breath. At the very least, they really should talk about planning this in the future.
He stops for a second. Does he really want to have more children with Wang YiBo? Xiao Zhan touches his still flat belly. The bump is not visible yet but he can feel it if he presses down lightly. Suddenly he remembers what Wang YiBo told him when Xiao Zhan told him that he was pregnant for the first time: that Wang YiBo had had intended to make Xiao Zhan pregnant when he’s 31. Xiao Zhan laughs helplessly as he shakes his head. That kid, ah. He really gets what he wants huh?
With a fond huff, Xiao Zhan picks up his phone, opens up the camera, takes a picture of the pregnancy test, and sends it to Wang YiBo through WeChat without any caption.
*
“Holy shit!” Wang YiBo exclaims after staring at the image displayed on his WeChat window with Xiao Zhan. Next thing he does is making sure Xiao Ying didn’t hear that because Xiao Zhan will definitely kill him. Thankfully, Zheng FanXing has taken Xiao Ying to play outside and only YuBin is inside the store with him, helping out a customer choosing a hat. He quickly raises his hand in apology to both of them, especially to the customer.
He quickly presses a button to call his husband, slipping off to the back of the store for more privacy. Xiao Zhan picks up immediately.
“Before you ask, yes. Of course, it’s true but I need to check with my obgyn. Don’t ask stupid question.” Xiao Zhan says without even a hello.
Wang YiBo takes a sharp breath. “Wow.”
“Wow?”
Wang YiBo laughs. “Yes. Wow. What else can I say, Zhan-ge?”
“Try.” Xiao Zhan deadpans.
“Zhan-ge, don’t be like that. I’m happy.” Wang YiBo knows he’s grinning stupidly at his phone but he doesn’t care. “Aren’t you happy?”
A sigh but Wang YiBo is sure Xiao Zhan is smiling. “How do you know I’m happy?”
“You didn’t send me a cryptic message brimming with dread, for one.” Wang YiBo grins again.
“Shut up.” Xiao Zhan chides but Wang YiBo can hear the grin hiding behind.
He leans his back against the wall. “So, the obgyn?”
“Mn. I called. I made an appointment for tomorrow.” Xiao Zhan’s voice turns soft. “Don’t tell anyone, okay? We need to make sure first.”
Wang YiBo frowns but he decides to obey his husband. “Okay. Are we still meeting for lunch or do you want me to buy something and we’ll eat at the apartment?”
“I’ll meet you guys for lunch. You’ve made the reservation, right? Let’s not waste that. I’ll go now.”
“Then, don’t drive.” Wang YiBo says. After hearing Xiao Zhan’s confirmation, he nods in satisfaction but before Xiao Zhan ends the call, Wang YiBo calls him again. “Ah. Zhan-ge?”
“Hm?”
Wang YiBo’s voice turns soft and in the lowest register as he whispers clearly into his phone, like he’s whispering right into Xiao Zhan’s ear. “Wo ai ni.”
“W, you,” There’s silence and then a low, exasperated but fondly chuckle which makes Wang YiBo’s chest swell. “…..Mn. Wo ye ai ni.”
When he goes back into the store, he has this wide grin stuck into his face and announces that there’s a special discount today. YuBin stares but Wang YiBo just cheekily said that he’s feeling happy today. Then, he goes out to get his daughter from Zheng FanXing, humming all the way.
*
The doctor confirms that Xiao Zhan is, indeed, fourteen weeks pregnant and advises him to have as much rest as he can. They bring the news to their parents over dinner (they have a lot of family dinners lately, due to the wedding preparation). Their parents are baffled, including Xiao Mama, who already guessed in the first place but she didn’t let her hope rise, but they are happy. Both Wang Mama and Xiao Mama assure them that they definitely will not make Xiao Zhan go out with them anymore. 98% of the wedding preparation is set, anyway so they will proceed without Xiao Zhan.
Xiao Ying doesn’t understand yet but she’s happy because her parents and grandparents look happy. However, she suddenly becomes a little bit more clingy to Xiao Zhan. 
And so a month later, in a function hall decorated in red hangings, flowers in several shades of red, and golden ornaments, Xiao Zhan and Wang YiBo have a wedding. Wang Mama and Xiao Mama, thankfully, have very good taste so nothing looks gaudy or too much. But everything certainly is very expensive. Xiao Zhan still grimaces but Xiao Mama pinches him on his sides. Wang YiBo also gives him a shit-eating grin. “You’re marrying into money. Just accept it, Ge.” (People won’t believe him but Xiao Zhan really only found out about how rich Wang YiBo’s parents are just after Xiao Ying was born. In the beginning of their friendship, Wang YiBo did tell him that he’s quite privileged but never elaborates so Xiao Zhan never asked.) 
Their wedding suits turn out really well. The Tang jacket fits perfectly, embroidery vivid and delicate around the cuffs and the back of the jacket; dragon on Wang YiBo’s and phoenix on Xiao Zhan’s. Both grooms serve tea to their parents and grandparents and receive hongbao in return. The hongbao from Wang YiBo’s parents is thin but Xiao Zhan can feel that it contains something rectangular and hard inside it. Well, at least they can use the money for Xiao Ying’s college.
They enter the main hall for the reception hand in hand, Wang YiBo holding Xiao Ying in his other arm. Their little girl is so well-behaved throughout the tea ceremony, sitting obediently on Xiao Baba’s lap. Both of them make a short round around the guests, greeting those who they consider very important before Wang Mama ushers them to sit because Xiao Zhan starts to look a bit pale.
“Ge, do you need to throw up?” Wang YiBo asks in a low voice once they’re in their seats.
Xiao Zhan scrunches up his nose and shakes his head. “It’s okay. Give YingYing here.” He beckons for Xiao Ying and hugs his daughter. He buries his nose into Xiao Ying’s hair and takes a deep breath. “My baobei smells so good I’m okay now.” He smiles.
Wang YiBo snorts while Xiao Ying looks up and kisses Xiao Zhan on the cheek. “Baba handsome!” She chirps. “A-Die handsome!” She adds after a moment.
Wang YiBo leans in to rub his nose against Xiao Ying’s. “YingYing is very pretty too!” He praises and Xiao Ying giggles happily. Xiao Zhan kisses Xiao Ying’s head then takes a sip of the warm green tea his mother brought over to their table. Wang YiBo runs his hand along Xiao Zhan’s back and receives every toast that comes their way from their friends and relatives on Xiao Zhan’s behalf because, well, Xiao Zhan can’t drink in his current condition. 
Then there’s the dance. Xiao Zhan was a bit reluctant when he knew about this part in his wedding reception. Despite his party animal self during college, Xiao Zhan is convinced that he’s actually very bad at dancing and never dances with any of his exes. Wang YiBo, on the contrary, is very good at it. He’s been teaching Xiao Zhan how to move his body along with the music. Xiao Zhan still feels very awkward and now he has to do it in front of so many people. But Wang YiBo is reaching out his hand to him, wiggling his handsome eyebrows in a mix of tease and challenge. That husband of his knows perfectly well that Xiao Zhan will never say no to such taunts. He huffs in amusement and places his hand in Wang YiBo’s grip.
Wang YiBo has large hands. His grip and touch on Xiao ZHan is always so sure and comforting. It never ceases to give a sense of safety to Xiao Zhan. Which, maybe one of the reasons why he fell for Wang YiBo. So Xiao Zhan tightens his grip around Wang YiBo’s hand and kisses him once he’s pulled into a close embrace.
Wang YiBo’s heart swell as he sees the smile blooming on Xiao Zhan’s lips as he pulls back from the kiss. One of his arm snakes around Xiao Zhan’s still slim waist. It will be another two months at least before Xiao Zhan starts showing. At least, based on what he knows from when Xiao Zhan was pregnant with Xiao Ying. He can’t stop marveling on how beautiful Xiao Zhan is. Like, does he really deserve to be married to this man? But they’re here. In each other’s arms. There’s a little girl born between them over there, sitting with their parents and another one on the way. Wang YiBo is only 23 and he has all this. Xiao Zhan once said, when they were cuddling after sex and Xiao Zhan is kissing every mole on Wang YiBo’s neck and nape. “Bo-di, do you know? I think the stars love you so much they left marks on you.” 
Wang YiBo laughed, then. “What the fuck, Zhan-ge? That sounds like I had an orgy with the stars or something.” and he laughed even louder when Xiao Zhan hit him.
Actually, Wang YiBo can say the same about Xiao Zhan. How else can this person be this beautiful, this charming, this clever, and this kind if the stars up above don’t love him too? 
Very gently, and very possessively, he presses his hand on Xiao Zhan’s lower back. Xiao Zhan gives him a look. He also has an arm around Wang YiBo’s back and he uses that hand to lightly pinch his husband.
“Pervert.” He smirks.
Wang YiBo pouts at him. “What? I didn’t say anything.” But then he grins widely. “But you can’t blame me because I know you’re also having perverted thoughts about me, Zhan-ge.”
“Oh my gods, lower your voice. Are you even human ah, Wang YiBo?” Xiao Zhan hisses as he sneaks a glance around them. The high of his cheeks blush pink and Wang YiBo can’t help but kiss his husband again.
Suddenly, there’s a confetti raining over them, along with cheers from their families and friends. “Gongxi!!”
Xiao Zhan laughs, eyes closes in a perfect crescent and Wang YiBo presses his face against Xiao Zhan’s face. Xiao Ying runs toward them, latching herself around Wang YiBo’s leg. Laughing, he picks her up and presses kisses on her chubby cheeks. Xiao Zhan kisses her too then kisses Wang YiBo again. Their hands clasp together as they continue to playfully dance with Xiao Ying. 
“YiBo.”
“Hmm?”
“Please take care of me from now on.”
Wang YiBo doesn’t know how many times he has kissed Xiao Zhan in the last hour. He doesn’t care. “Mn. Likewise, Zhan-ge.”
***
        Notes:
  Reference to their wedding suits
Have a nice weekend, y'all!!
  Notes:
  Hello, everyone! I'm back!Sorry that this series is really slow moving and maybe by now you already can guess that I don't plan to really end this hehe. I'll just keep adding more if inspiration hit me.This time, we're going back in time again for the time when they get married. At this timeline, their daughter is around 2 y.o and this takes place from before part 5 of this series.Thank you for your support and lovely, lovely comments on the previous fics of this series. I hope you can enjoy this one too &lt;33 Have a nice day and stay safe!*Title taken from Bruno Mars' Marry You.
  Series this work belongs to:
      ← Previous Work Part 7 of the The Lion, The Rabbit, and The Alternate Universe series
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (19)
  Comments
          topazium, Aceijun_no1, YEETING_LAOZHU, 05_YiZhan_05, Novit, Min_Rosie0903, awkwardy, Kore29, Bullet_in_your_heart_38, TATA95and97COOKY, uchihacaroline, Mrs_Harry_Holmes, siler30, lizaj1129, Aside1016, Skittles__phan, chillaxbts, SeroMinutes, Fataflox, zackkieZ, C_bas7, Raene, jess_chibi, NovaSterne, AkatCuties, Bubble90, MayC_0596, imabithungry, loneliestar, miraged_dreams, FlowerInAdversity, aidenparadise, MICKEYANDIANHUSBANDS, candylight, HL_Kyuu, quecherry, Raven666, Hanakahime, hanbunnotsuki, tincan, TheiaP, ichigohaatsu, Phenix978, Mayaryanne, rossxlla, huanghou, noelle321xyz, pearlredlatte, ToForgetEnvies, hannah1s, 
               and 25 more users
            kai_24, starlit_taekook, notginnyweasley, seishirou99, shiroki_kun, Yizhanjk, CecileRichie, LRR, bapi588, iampepijyg, violetbronte, pinkcarnations, Dr_rude, Pringlesgonnapring, Netbush, bbydiamond, Auroa_wings1994, procrastinatopotato, Luchi2003, Lunar_Bunny, Tammarita, dusty_winged, Romance146, KimCrystal12 and RaeRae_GoneAway
             as well as 
          21 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
