      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: lex m/m (mature OR explicit)
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandoms:
               Pocket Monsters | Pokemon - All Media TypesPocket Monsters: Sword &amp; Shield | Pokemon Sword &amp; Shield Versions
              Relationships:
               Gou | Goh/Satoshi | Ash KetchumHanako | Delia Ketchum/Ookido Yukinari-hakase | Professor Samuel Oak
              Characters:
               Satoshi | Ash KetchumGou | Goh (Pokemon)Hanako | Delia KetchumOokido Yukinari-hakase | Professor Samuel OakOokido Shigeru | Gary Oak
              Additional Tags:
               oh boyhere we go againholiday ficChristmasHurt/ComfortAngstCharacter StudyFluffSecret RelationshipRomanceit's really not that sad I promisethough not gonna lie I put Ash through the wringerMasara Town | Pallet Town (Pokemon)Ash has a lot of feelsGoh is a good boyfriendEstablished RelationshipThere's still plenty of fluffworry not about that
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 5 of the But It's Profound to Be Understood series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2020-09-27Completed:2020-10-10Words:27388Chapters:3/3Comments:25Kudos:30Bookmarks:1Hits:380
      Who is that, under the mistletoe?
      HimeBeat
      Chapter 3
        Notes:
          Hello loveys, thank you for joining once again in this not-so-short little story. I appreciate you all greatly, and I hope you will enjoy reading this last part as much as I've enjoyed sharing it with you:
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    “Did you notice that your mom hung mistletoe over your door?” Comments Goh, though he’s not much expecting an answer from the seemingly unconscious body wrapped around him.Ash shakes his head, babbling a string of sleepy noises, muffled and illegible where his face is pressed to the researcher’s shoulder.When his brain catches up to the information, however, he’s quick to open his eyes, alarmed and electric.Things have really come back to normal, now.“You mean I’ve been missing out on kisses?!” He expresses, scandalized.It’s loud, much louder than it needs to be at seven in the morning. But this is Ash, loud comes in the, so Goh will take it.Apparently, ‘kisses’ come in the package as well. One after another and in quick succession, falling all over his cheeks, forehead, chin, neck, ear…stop that, you know I’m ticklish there - Ash!It’s all fun and games until Ash presses their lips together, close mouthed and intense, and when he leans back and their eyes meet, there is a glint on Ash’s that Goh knows too well.The next kiss lands right below his left ear, open and wet. Ash ducking his head lower a moment later, so he can dive straight into the love-mark he’s been drawing over and over that year.Goh sighs out in pleasure, a hand coming up to the bed-combed hair, pulling ever-so-slightly, with just enough pressure that Ash will feel it.The trainer groans in reply. Goh smirks.“There’s mistletoe in the kitchen, too, you know…”“Hm? I’ll kiss you there, too,” Promises Ash, distractedly, hand dancing up to the curve of Goh’s waist under his shirt.Goh’s entire body leans into his attentions, and Ash loves this. Loves the way he responds, how his lithe frame fits so well in his hands, how it seeks his warmth. Loves the quiet moans that fall from his lips, how he holds onto Ash’s shoulders and his nails dig into the skin there.He’s perfect in the mornings. Mellow and loose limbed, large blue eyes lazy with sleep. A just woken-up Goh is also faintly-less-alert than usual, which means is the perfect opportunity for Ash to be all the more doting, Goh generous enough to let him do as he pleases, with almost minimum teasing of his mawkishness.It never lasts too long, unfortunately.“Ash,” the mouth on neck has definitely left a bruise by now, and the hands on his navel have begun wandering slightly south, towards dangerous territory. Goh would very much love to let him continue and find out where this is going, but he’s still mindful of their Pokémon sleeping in the room, not to mention their whereabouts, “that’s enough, c’mon,” He gently pushes at the trainer’s shoulders, forearms granting some distance between their bodies.Ash pouts at the small separation, because of course he does. Impossible and spoiled.Goh sighs again, and takes his hands off the trainer’s shoulders, arms opening to his sides instead, inviting.Not a second later, he finds himself crushed under a hundred and fifty pounds of tan-skinned-champion, blissful and giggling into the hug.He indulges this man far too much, thinks Goh, mildly alarmed by the way Ash has essentially just punched the air out of him, and yet, he doesn’t care, not one bit, because Ash is being cute and pliant and gleeful. And that’s all Goh really needs to stay alive.“Good morning, baby,” Breathes the trainer, softly, dropping another, much tamer kiss to Goh’s cheek. The researcher chuckles, because that’s a bit of an understatement.But he replies in kind, and draws senseless patterns on the expanse of his boyfriend’s back. He lets them bask in the hold a little longer. It’s still early, and though Ash’s angst has greatly dissipated, the charge of the last two days and its revelations haven’t magically disappeared. He can use the comfort, and Goh is happy to provide it. -0- Ash genuinely does love Christmas. He loves the decorations, and the spirit of the season. Loves the Christmas themed candy, and the eggnog. Loves his mother’s Christmas bread, with fruit in it and heavy on the cinnamon.He loves decorating the Christmas tree. They’ve always had the ones on the small side, but as a child, his mom would let him put plenty of ornaments on, shaped like all sorts of Pokémon. The flakey old set of lights dimming a bit more with each passing year, but always giving a healthy hue of gold to their living room.Even the gift exchange he enjoys. Though not big on receiving presents himself, Ash loves the look on his mother’s face when she opens his gift, and he’s excited to see Goh’s face when he receives his present this year. He loves the dinner party held on Christmas Eve…Ash loves Christmas. And for the first time in years, he’s got the chance to spend it with the people he loves the most under the same roof. He can’t let it go to ruin over the disaster that has been the last few days.He owes it to his mom - and to Professor Oak - to fix this. To make Christmas feel like a celebration again. He owes it to Goh, who joined him all the way across the region for a proper holiday break, and thus far has gotten nothing but a sulking champion and depressive childhood recollections.He owes it to their Pokémon, that can only visit Pallet and their friends at the Lab every so often, and should be making the most of the quiet and calm of the season before going back to the city and their busy lives.Ash wants to bask in the joy of these days with his family, every last member of it.He loves Christmas so much, that over breakfast he asks his mom if they can postpone the gift opening until the evening this year.Delia agrees, confused and curious, but lenient to his request. It’s not the strangest thing he’s ever asked for. It’s not even on the top five.“Are you going anywhere this morning, dear?” She asks, trying to figure out what his plan is.“The Lab,” He replies, determined, “I gotta talk to Professor Oak.”Delia says nothing for a moment, and hopes the surprise isn’t too evident on her face. Although the misunderstandings had been cleared, and everyone had been forgiven, the question mark remained on Delia’s mind of just how much would the dynamic change - if at all -  between her son and her beloved Professor, now that everyone knew the truth.She would never entertain a relationship that her son didn’t approve of, that much was certain. And for the longest time she’d actively repressed her budding feelings for the elder man. Partly because something in her remained attached to Grey, foolish as she knew it was, her heart had not been ready to move on. But also, an even larger part of her was always thinking of Ash, of what he would think, if he would be upset, if he would understand it, if he could ever grow to accept her affections for someone else…But Ash had been right last night. He was not a child anymore, and he didn’t need to be treated with kid-gloves. He could take the truth. And he wanted for her to trust him, no differently than she would trust a friend.What a silly boy. How-ever could she make him understand that, to her, he could never be ‘a friend’’.Ash was her entire world, everything under the great sky began and ended with Ash, and the light that burned behind his brown eyes was the only energy Delia needed to stay alive, to keep fighting in this life she had been given.As a mother, Delia feels infinitely proud of all of Ash’s achievements and heroic deeds to date. But never has she been prouder of him than she was last night, when he came into her room and told her that all he wanted for her was to be happy. As happy as she had made sure he was during his childhood, as happy as he felt these days, now that he was so well on his way to realize his dream.
  And you can be happy alone, mama, I know that. But it’s really, really awesome when you can be happy with someone by your side. I want you to be that happy, too! And I don’t want you to hide that happiness, specially not for my sake.
Delia has no doubt as to where that piece of wisdom comes from. As she sees her son refill Goh’s coffee mug, mere moments before the boy expresses his wish for some more, sees warm eyes and an amused smile take over his features, as Goh tells the story of Cinderace and Pikachu’s checkers game last night, which sounds to have been quite the encounter. Her son is in love, has found someone who makes him feel all the wonderful things loves is supposed to be. It might be all the romance novels she’s read in her lifetime, but Delia can confidently state that what her dear son and her very-much-dear Goh share together is fated. Was always meant to be, one way or another. She can be sentimental like that. More rationally, however, she can see just much of a great match these two young men are, and is forever thankful to know there is someone who loves and takes care of her son with as much adoration as Goh does. She knows Ash is in good hands.Her son, still playful and confident, with that same youthful curiosity about the world that had first taken him on his journey many years ago. Her son, who just last night had demonstrated outstanding maturity, through his apology, yes, but also with his encouraging words and acceptance.She didn’t expect less, truly. And all of her previous hesitation and secrecy feel pointless now. But if there is something Delia has learned from all her years, it is that dwelling on the past renders useless. If there is something she has learned from her son, is to always keep an eye out for what’s coming next.Because the best was yet to come. “I”m sure he will want to see you as well,” Is what she finally replies, calmly.She knows so, actually, because Sam had expressed nothing but his uttermost understanding the night before, but had also assured her that he was ready to talk to Ash, when the young champion felt ready himself. He’d hugger her tightly and kissed the top of her head, promising that it would all work out.Her Sam could be so kind. So selfless and considerate. Delia could only hope that Ash - Ah, but of course he would. She knows her son. -0- Once more, he arrives to the Lab without bothering to announce himself and, once more, he runs into Gary on the main floor. The researcher barely lifts his gaze from his work, pointing a hand to the back of the place, “Garden,” is all he says, Ash giving a curt nod in response, ready to keep walking.“Wait, Ash…” Gary meets his eyes this time, and the briefest of conversations takes place during the exchange.“I know,” Responds the trainer, nodding again, “It’s all right, none of it was on you. Just - don’t put Goh in that position again,” He demands, serious, and it’s Gary’s turn to nod.Their eyes meet again, and is the last thing they say before Ash is walking again, armed and ready to face the Professor.No. To face Sam.Even on Christmas Day, the Pokémon need to be fed and tended to, and Ash is only so relieved that the Lab’s garden is mostly a neutral ground, feels confident enough to have this conversation and say his piece.It doesn’t play out the way he’d hoped.It doesn’t even start the way he’d thought it would.Bulbasaur has somehow vine-whipped itself with Bayleef and Sceptile, in grass-type tangle disaster. The Professor looks mildly alarmed, but is - as collectedly as he can - trying to defuse the situation. Trying being the operative word.Arceus, what kind of trouble do his Pokémon get up to when he’s away? Is it always like this?“Um, can I help?” He asks, and more than an offer is a genuine question, because he’s not sure of what he’s just walked into, nor does he have any idea of how to fix it.The Professor turns to him with grateful eyes, and motions with his free hand for Ash to come closer, “You see that vine over there? I’m holding Sceptile’s tail so it won’t spring and make it worse, and I can’t quite reach it, but if we twist it just so around Bayleef’s middle, I think it might do the trick.” Ash does as instructed, and, indeed, the vine around Bayleef’s middle untangles, freeing his smaller friend on one side. From there, it becomes much easier to twist the other vine from Sceptile’s tail, they just have to be careful about it, and Ash is admired (yet not surprised) of just how gentle Professor Oak is with his Pokémon, of how much they seem to like him in return.Some minutes later, when all three of his grass-type are free and the crisis is averted, Ash remembers why he’d come in the first place.He’d been thinking of his words the entire way over, but now, with the Professor in front of him, so calm and kind, and acting as if nothing had ever happened, he finds himself at a loss.He resolves on the one thing he can’t let go undone for another moment.“Please forgive me,” He says, bowing down intently, “Professor, please forgive me for the way I acted last night, and for being rude to you in our house.” He’s flushed and embarrassed, but his words come out clear and decided.He’s a little taken aback when a hand places on his shoulder, “Stop that, son,” He hears the older man say, “There is no need,” Ash lifts his gaze and meets his eyes, which he knows is disrespectful in a moment like this, but his curiosity gets the best of him, and the Professor’s eyes are still just as kind when he speaks again, “Let’s go over there,” He suggests, nodding to one of the benches nearby.Ash follows, silently and somehow dumbfounded.For a good three minutes it’s nothing but silent, absent observation of the creatures around them. It isn’t awkward, per se, but Ash feels antsy. He wants to break the silence, but everything he wants to say it’s coming on top of each other his head, and it’s confusing even for him to make sense of it all.Much to his relief, Professor Oak speaks first.“I first told your mother about my feelings for her on this bench,” He confesses. It’s…not what Ash was expecting to hear“Oh, um - ” “…Six years ago”
  There’s no way - 
“And, of course, it took me years to gather the courage to even tell her about those feelings.”“Professor…” It’s a good thing the man keeps talking, because Ash isn’t too sure of what he would’ve said, too astonished to even react properly.“Can I tell you about something I’ve figured out, in all these years?” The automatic response is a nod, because Ash is used to hearing this man talk and gawk in admiration at all the fantastic discoveries that come out of his mouth.He has an inkling this one won’t be Pokémon related, though.He’s curious anyway.“What I’ve learned,” He begins, and Ash can hear every last one of his years filter in his voice, “Is that love is infinitely patient, and can manifest in endless ways.” Which is lovely, and poetic, but Ash doesn’t quiet get why he’s talking about -  “Your mother is the smartest person I know, Ash. Much more so than I will ever be, with all the certificates and prizes. And she had figured out I was helplessly in love with her way before I ever did. She wasn’t surprised that day, when I told her, but I could tell she wasn’t pleased I had done so, either. There was still sorrow in her heart.”Something pulls at the trainer’s core at those words. Painful and guilty, tarnished are the memories he knows both of them carry, of a man that they’d promised loyalty to.Even when he hadn’t been so considerate himself…His mother had been trying to live up to a promise as well, unfair and impossible, and only then does Ash realize how stupid all of this is.To deny her own happiness for… “Is it - was it because of me?” It sounds conceited, but the truth is he just wants to know how many people’s lives have been affected for his sake.How is he any different from his father, if the people he cares about put their happiness on hold so Ash will feel good every time he comes back to Pallet-Town? He never wants to be that person. Never wants to be as selfish as him.“Oh, Ash, no, no. Don’t you ever think that,” Urges the Professor, “Your mother loves you,” Ash nods, because, yeah, that much he knows. What good has it done to her, though, when all it’s caused is repressed feelings and lies. Perhaps inadvertently, Sam is quick to soothe his concern, “She wasn’t ready, back then, and to be frank, I hadn’t meant anything with my declaration, I just wanted her to know. I felt it was the right thing to tell her, because, well…”“When you love someone, you let them know,” Completes Ash, remembering that cryptic conversation he’d had with his mother years ago, when he’d called her, confused and scared of all the things he’d been feeling for Goh, the sensations new and mysterious.She’d made it simple again, just by telling him to be honest. With Goh, yes. But also with himself.Sam nods, and continues, “After that we decided to let things run their course, and you must know that, even if nothing had ever happened, I would have always stayed by your and your mother’s side. Her friendship is most dear to me. As are you.” Objectively, Ash knows this. Because Professor Oak has been in his life for so long, present and supportive, it’d be hard to believe the man doesn’t care even a little for him.But he doesn’t recall ever actually hearing the words. And he hadn’t quite realized just how much he needed them. How much they would mean to him.He bites back his emotion at the declaration, however, a more pressing issue burning his mind.“What did happen? Between you two, I mean.” It’s an indecorous question, but he would like to hear the full story.The Professor releases a chuckle, and Ash hopes it’s actually funny, because he could use a breather, “Not a lot, actually,” He admits, “It was the little things that changed. She would join more often on my visits to fellow researchers, and we would share most meals together. She would let me help out more in her garden. Your mother, being the brilliant woman she is, kindly pointed out one day how we were already a couple, and she was okay with making that an official stance.” He answers Ash’s next question before the trainer even formulates it, “It was right after that last visit you made, before leaving to the Champion’s Island. Delia said she knew you wouldn’t be coming back to Pallet after that. Not for long, at least.” That’s funny, thinks Ash, who would’ve never even imagined everything that would unfold that following year at the Champion’s Island. He’d been the most surprised one, when Professor Cerise had called Goh and him that October afternoon last year, talking about this project he’d been working on for a while, saying how he’d very much like to invite his best research-fellows to participate.Ash hadn’t known, back then, that all of his silent prayers would be heard, and he would finally be able to reunite with his best friend, for good this time.But of course his mother would know, he reasons. That’s what mothers do.“That is not to say,” Continues the Professor. Ash hasn’t really said much himself, but he finds this is actually going better than he hoped. “That she purposely waited for you to, er, ’leave-the-nest’, so to speak, to finally give our own relationship a chance. I believe it was just timing. She, too, felt it was the right moment for some changes to occur.”Changes. The very thing Ash had been dreading all along.He’s always had this vision of Pallet-town. With its green trees and its shiny sun, red-colored-roofs and white-picket-fences. Taken out of a postcard, rural and quiet and magical. The small-town way. He was proud of his town and his upbringing. And felt like he owed a great deal of his success to the place that had first seen him grow, where he’d started his journey all those years back.Pallet remained constant. Where everything else in the scenery was perpetually changing, he felt like he could come back here and things would be the same. His mother always harvesting something fresh in her garden, the Professor always teaching and unraveling information about Pokémon and their lifestyles. Insufferable Gary working alongside the Lab crew and his grandfather. His own Pokémon playing and sharing in this same garden.In his vision, he’d always done his uttermost effort to ignore how things had changed. And he’d missed out on how fantastic those changes had actually been.His mother still has delicious plants and berries in her garden, but she’s also picked up an interest for traveling, and there is now so much more they can talk about.Professor Oak has ventured beyond just Pokémon behavior, keeping regular contact with his cousin in the Alola Region, and has begun, too, researching the wonders of Pokémon in other worlds. That little change alone had granted Goh his own apprenticeship at the Aether Foundation years before, and Ash would never think of that as a negative happenstance, when he knows the opportunity had meant so much to his best friend.Insufferable Gary…well, that hasn’t changed.But everything else, even the town he’s so stubbornly frozen in his mind - The white-picket-fences are chipped in some houses, and some townsfolk have actually re-painted their roofs green (which, preposterous, in his opinion, but what can you do). A bunch of the trees have fallen or dried, but there are new ones coming up in their place, still young and not-yet-as-impressive as the ones he remembers, but growing on their rightful way nonetheless.Professor Oak, who has deep lines contouring his eyes and mouth, and whose hair has turned grey for good. Professor Oak, who walks a little slower, but still has a spring on his step. Professor Oak, whose smile hasn’t changed.It only so happens he has more reasons to smile, these days.Ash does, too.He is a man in love himself.And how great is that, he thinks, to learn there is someone who loves his mother so much. To know he will look after her. It’s no longer something Ash feels he’s lost, the responsibility to take care of her. Rather, it’s beginning to feel as a privilege he gets to share with someone else.And for that person to be someone Ash admires and respects so much as Professor Oak.More importantly, someone who has stayed, through all the seasons thus far, and who Ash has no doubts plans to stay for all the seasons to come.That’s a change he can live with. -0-  About an hour later, when he walks back into the house, he finds it empty, but very distinctively hears laughter coming from the backyard.He finds everyone on the deck, sitting in the pretty garden chairs that Ash would use as stepping stones in his childhood. There are mugs of tea half finished in their hands. And though the mid-morning air is brisk and a little chilly, the sun is shining healthily enough that it isn’t unbearably cold.Pikachu and Cinderace are helping Mr. Mime pick up berries, which no doubt will find their way into whatever meal they are having later (if they don’t eat them all in the harvest process, that is). “Oh, dear, welcome back,” Says Delia, repairing on his presence. Her tone is cheery as ever, if a little hesitant when she asks, “How did it go?”Goh turns to look at him over his shoulder, smile easy on his face. He’s got on one of those throw blankets his mom keeps around everywhere, their purpose in the world never quite clear to Ash. But it looks rather adorable around his boyfriend’s frame, so they can live to see another day, he decides. Ash takes a deep breath, but his mouth pulls upwards ever-so-slightly, and the ghost of a smile traces his features. All things considered: “It was all right.”Goh rolls his eyes at the reply. Because that’s Ash’s response to everything, even when things aren’t all right, even when things are complicated. Besides, they’ve been waiting for well-over an hour, and are definitely not settling for ‘all right’.“You’re gonna have to do better than ‘all right’,” Shots Goh, imitating his tone mockingly at the last two words, air quotes coming up.Ash makes a face at him, narrowing his eyes menacingly. But when approaches him by the chair and clasps his throw-blanket clad shoulders, all he does is lean down to smack a kiss to his cheek.“It was all right,” He insists, muffled and exaggerated into Goh’s cheekbone, who squirms and giggles at the attention, the joyous little sound of his laughter filling Ash with affection.When he straightens up again, he keeps his hands to the researcher’s shoulders, and aims the next sentence at his mother, “I apologized, and explained to him why I reacted the way I did… but he knows I’m okay with it now…no, he knows I’m happy for you two. And I really am,” He reassures, looking straight into her eyes.“I know you are, darling.” She looks radiant, and, truly, Ash has no choice but to go over where she’s sitting and kiss her, too. Loud and dramatic, full of the energy that characterizes him.“I’ve invited him over tonight, so we can try dinner again,” He informs after. Delia hums her understanding, having expected as much.“Gary as well?” She enquires.“No?” Tries Ash, feigning innocence. His mother and partner give him an unimpressed look, and he sighs out in defeat, a dismissive hand waving back and forth, “Yeah, yeah, of course Gary as well.” But only because he was right there at the Lab, and it would’ve been rude not to. Not because he actually wanted Gary there. Never. -0- Dinner does go smoothly this time, Professor Oak sits next to Delia, again, but this time Ash doesn’t spend the entire meal stealing glances their way. Though when he does, he has to admit to himself that they look quite nice together, indeed. The conversation flows well and amicable, no plates are broken and no doors or tables are smashed. So it’s already considerably better than the night before had been.Mr. Mime presents the tales of the Alternate Dimension in Alola, and, seriously, when are you gonna let us live that one down? It didn’t even happen like that! No, Gary, I didn’t cry jumping through the portal! - Well, you whined quite a bit… Betrayed and wounded - by his own boyfriend - , Ash calls off the storytelling.Fortunately, there’s gifts, too, and Ash is most excited about those, had carefully chosen every present weeks in advance this year. Yes, he’d picked something for Gary as well, no, we don’t ever need to talk about it.The party moves to the living room, where, over coffee and dessert, Ash starts bringing out colorful boxes and packages, something for everyone, including the Pokémon.Goh looks at him curiously when a large box is placed on his lap.“Um, you just gave me a gift,” He blinks, confusedly, and a little perplexed at the box’s size, wondering what it could be storing.“That was four days ago,” Dismisses Ash, grinning widely, “Besides, that was your birthday gift. This is Christmas,” He stresses, gently tapping the box again, prompting Goh to open it.Ash is often thoughtful, but gifts have been a bit of a luxury over the years, - with all the distance they’ve had to deal with - so it’s a little surprising for Goh to be receiving not one, but two actual presents from the trainer in the span of a week.Ever-curious, Goh lifts the lid of the box, eyes opening like plates when he sees its contents.“Ash…” He gasps. The aforementioned keeps smiling madly, nodding for him to take it out.“What is it, sweetie?” Asks Delia, equally curious, trying to peak into the box from her position across the room.By her side, Professor Oak represses a smirk. Other than Ash and his cousin Samson, he was the only person who knew about this gift, and had been nothing but helpful, when the trainer had called last month, fresh out of his vacation, and plotting what he knew would be the best Christmas present for Goh.“it’s an egg,” Answers Goh, carefully pulling out the unhatched item. It’s got red and yellow marks around it, not a combination Goh has seen before.“From the Alola Region,” Supplies Ash, loving the look of absolute mirth on his boyfriend’s face.If there weren’t an unborn Pokémon in his lap right now, Goh would positively jump on Ash right this moment, grateful and joyous over such a wonderful gift.Instead, their eyes meet for a few seconds, deep blue glinting at fiery brown, and they say everything they need to say without words.There will be time for those later.“You’ve really outdone yourself this year, dear,” Compliments Delia, moving around the living room in the new dress he’d just given her, setting another plate of cookies on the coffee table.Ash blushes at the flattery, but tries to play it off, “It’s Christmas,” He says over a shrug. “And it’s the first one we get to spend as a family in a while. That’s worth a celebration, right?”His mom smiles approvingly at the words, not missing the way he’s included not only Goh, but Sam as well in that sentence. And Gary, too. Probably.Ash looks at her, really looks at her, and catches something he’s been missing out on all these years in his futile attempt to keep things as they were.She is beautiful. Always, he believes, but tonight especially, she seems to be glowing. The bright blue dotted dress he’d gifted her looks adorable, and she’d immediately made it hers, complimenting it with a matching ribbon. Her hair falls prettily around her face and she’s smiling so bright she lights up the whole room.She looks free, notes Ash, realizing how different she acts now, how special she is to Professor Oak. It’s subtle, but it’s there. In the blush on her cheeks, the song of her laughter.In the way she says his name. 
  Sam, could you put the kettle on, please?
In the way he says hers. 
  Let me get that for you, Delia.
It’s what love sounds like.He would know.“Ash… Ash!” Calls Goh, fingers quickly snapping in front of his face. The aforementioned blinks, and frowns at Goh’s worried insistence, “You are zoning out,” He says.No, no. They are past all this, “I’m sorry, baby,” Apologizes the trainer, grabbing at the hand Goh had just been snapping, tenderly kissing his wrist, “I’m good. Promise.”They’ve cuddled up on the larger couch, the gift opening mostly over, one of his arms crossed over Goh’s shoulders, there’s unfinished eggnog mugs in both of their hands. Though Goh is mostly over his. The third, notices Ash.Pikachu had loved Delia’s knitted hat, and Cinderace had been pleasantly surprised to learn there was one for him as well, flustered and confused to receive anything from someone other than Goh or Ash. Everyone in the family gets one, winked Delia, sweetly.Goh had gotten one as well.So had Gary, but, again, they never need to speak of it.His mom has gone overboard with the food, as expected, and has been indulging Goh’s sweet tooth all evening long, with cookies, dessert, eggnog, and oh, we have a pie as well! You have to try the pie, dear.Gary is running his mouth about Alolan eggs and how they differ from those in Kanto and any other region, deeply entranced in the one Goh had just gotten…Ash doesn’t listen to Gary on a good day, and right now, he’s more preoccupied with the idea forming in his head.“Hey, you said there was mistletoe in the kitchen, right?” He asks to Goh, sotto voice, as his boyfriend leans further into the half embrace.“Yeah, right there,” he points, nodding towards the threshold of the door that divides the kitchen from the living room.Sam is holding the door open for his mom as she’s walking out with a large tray on her hands, the pie still steaming (Seriously, she indulges Goh too much).But it’s the perfect opportunity…“Mama!” He calls, not loud, but forceful enough to get her attention. She looks his way with questioning eyes, and he points to the spot above her head, signaling the mistletoe.Promptly, Delia flushes, laughing to hide her embarrassment, and shaking her head in an undermining manner.Ash isn’t having it, “It’s the rules, mama, you gotta kiss!” Gary stops talking, and takes in the scene with an amused expression. Goh looks mildly mortified, swatting a hand to the trainer’s chest, trying to stop him from flustering his mother and the Professor.But his genius boyfriend has got it wrong this time, because that isn’t Professor Oak over there. Well, it is to them, will always be. But to his mother, this is Sam. And if her and Sam are bold enough to stand under the mistletoe together, they ought to be brave enough to follow-through on its consequence as well.The Professor laughs, good humored and only a little red on the cheeks. He takes the tray off Delia’s hands, and hands it over to Mr. Mime, who has come to assist the trainer’s mischievous plan.Without her shielding goods, Delia is vulnerable to her son’s teasing, and she gives into Sam’s complicit actions helplessly, as he wraps a sure arm around her waist, gentle, as he always is, his smirk a bit more playful than usual when he leans into her space.So kind, her Sam, still asking for quiet consent with his eyes. She nods her agreement with a sigh, just as their lips press together.Is chaste, at best, and lasts but a few seconds. But Ash counts it as a victory.He isn’t too sure what exactly he was trying to achieve, exactly. He’d just wanted to see it, maybe. Witness them together, and assess how he felt about it now that his mind was in the right place to process it.He discovers he rather likes what he’s seen tonight.As it turns out, he doesn’t remember ever seeing his mom kiss anyone. She’d probably kissed his father at some point, sure. But Ash has no recollection of it. And he hopes this is just his memory failing him again, but he honestly can’t remember ever seeing her this joyous and serene. Either way, this is the only way he wants her to be from now on. This is how she deserves to be, and he will do anything in his power to protect that.That’s what his father had asked of him, wasn’t it?So he may be doing good on that promise after all.Gary’s teasing whistle bring him out of his thoughts again, as does Goh’s pinch to his right flank, accusing and disapproving of his torture to his mother. But there’s amusement in his eyes as well, Ash can tell.Delia and Professor Oak sit across them on the couch, his mother still a little nervous, trying to distract herself from the moment, and offering everyone a serving of pie.The Pokémon are quick to jump at it, Pikachu’s cheeks covered in berry-red on top of its cheek-marks, Cinderace careful not to get it all over his white fur, Gary’s Umbreon eating delicately, much like its trainer. Mr. Mime eats off an empty plate, but seems to be enjoying it just as much as the others.Ash opens his mouth in silent request, and, begrudgingly, Goh feeds him spoonfuls of the pastry, one of the trainer’s arms is still secured around his shoulders, and it doesn’t seem as though he’ll be moving it, not even for pie. Any other time, the researcher would push him off and tell him to stop being so cheesy. But it’s Christmas, and Goh reasons this can be his little Christmas miracle to Ash.It’s getting late tonight as well, but this is not the type of evening the champion minds losing sleep over. There’s amicable chatting, and their Pokémon playing with their gifts around the living room. There is pie and Christmas lights on, and his mom has turned on the old record-player, too. It’s a proper party now.This is exactly what had wanted.He’s so lucky, he thinks.He knows he is.And though this holiday break didn’t turn out as pliant and simple as he’d expected, he knows now that everything that happened was for the best, and he couldn’t imagine being here right now, surrounded by his family while still being in the dark about his mother and Professor Oak. Can’t imagine still wanting to keep his image of this old-town the same way he’s tried to so for nearly a decade.He’s still silently recriminating himself for the turmoil he caused, and for foolishly believing that ignoring his anguish and memories of the past would make them go away. He knows better.He knows better than to dwell on those thoughts, too.But then there is his mother, kind and lively and singing along to the Christmas Carrols in the only holiday album they own. There’s Professor Oak, humming under his breath and looking at her the way he knows means I adore you.There is Pikachu dancing around the living room with Umbreon on its tail, Cinderace tapping its foot and ears along with the rhythm (He might dance, if the stars feel like granting them more miracles, he might just do it).There is Goh, beautiful and his, smiling for no reason with whiskey-blushed-cheeks, pressing to his side to chase the warmth of their bodies together.What an idiot he is, realizes Ash, to have ever thought anything could be better than this.Just as well, the last few days, he can live with them. With his disappointment over his father and the now-forever-broken picture he had of Pallet-Town. With his mother’s understanding and the Professor’s declaration of love to his family. With Goh’s arms holding him at night, keeping him safe, his quiet words helping him make sense of his thousands of thoughts, guiding him through the darkest bits.It’s all worked out in the end. And he’s only got the future to look forward to.He’s got tonight to enjoy.After pie - which the trainer hopes will be the last of the food, horrified at even thinking such a thing, but positively ready to explode, if as much as a crumble makes its way into his body - things mellow down for a while, Delia and Sam are in the kitchen soaking the dishes, and Gary has stepped outside to call his sister and her family. Goh takes advantage of the momentary privacy, and leans a little further into his boyfriend’s half embrace, nuzzling his cheek.“You did promise me a kiss under this mistletoe,” He whispers, pecking Ash’s lips a few times, warm and flirty.He’s clinging a bit, notices the champion, amused and very much charmed at the development. It could be that he’s feeling cold, or maybe is all the eggnog he’s had.It might just be that he’s in love.“Mm, mistletoe’s all the way over there, baby,” He whispers back, head tilting slightly to the side, the action clumsy with their lips still brushing together. Instinctively, his fingers press a little harder to his boyfriend’s shoulder, pulling him in, anticipating the next kiss.“I don’t care” Replies Goh.Good, neither does Ash.
        Notes:
          So... how was that for a holiday break? Let me know what you thought, what you loved, what you didn't love - and I do so hope to read you all again soon on my next (still under development) installment of this series. Prompts and comments and kudos are all welcome and loved.Thank you for tuning in every week, be safe out there x
  Notes:
  You already know I adore chatting in the comments, please let me know what you think? How do you feel it will play out? Will everything really be all right?? We shall see...
  Series this work belongs to:
      ← Previous Work Part 5 of the But It's Profound to Be Understood series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (1)
  Comments
          non_emotional_shorty, Uta_chi, bombasticAnathema, Abitginger, SimplyFox, Neo_Mitsu, Eunoia_Verdant, SkyeCrystal, Lintheartist, MaryJu, LordDavai, sugarblossom, ZamazentaShield, beautifulandsweet, and deathangel91
             as well as 
          15 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
