      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "sherlock (tv)" m/m NOT "sherlock holmes/john watson"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Live Aid Era
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      Queen (Band)
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Who Wants To Live Forever...
      by
      Beatlegirl1968
      Fandoms:
      Queen (Band)
 Explicit
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 F/M, M/M
 Work in Progress
    06 Oct 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsBrian May/Roger TaylorBrian May Roger Taylor (Queen) Freddie Mercury John Deacon Veronica Tetzlaff Jim Beach Chris "Crystal" Taylor Clare Taylor Winifred Taylor Michael Taylor (Queen) Paul Prenter Peter "Ratty" Hince Tiger Lily Taylor Jimmy May Ruth May Harold May Original Characters Tim Staffel Jim Hutton Bill Reid Mary Austin Peter "Phoebe" Freestone Reinhold Mack Brian "Jobby" Zellis Anita Dobson Dominique Beyrand Jo Morris Debbie Leng Joe Fanelli Terry Giddings Chrissie MullenMaylor - Freeform 1980s Era Queen (Band) Established Relationship Romance Rock and Roll Touring Alcohol Abuse/Alcoholism Drug Use Partying Cheating Implied/Referenced Cheating Gay Period-Typical Homophobia Internalized Homophobia Depression Anxiety Suicidal Thoughts Angst Smut Explicit Sexual Content Explicit Language Family Children of Characters Hidden Relationship Family Secrets Coming Out Press and Tabloids Friendship/Love Loyalty Protectiveness Terminal Illnesses AIDS Long-Term Relationship(s) Marriage Same-Sex Marriage Extramarital Affairs Hot Space Era The Works era Live Aid Era Album: A Kind Of Magic (Queen) The Miracle era Innuendo Era Arguments Physical Abuse Scandal
    Summary
      If you have found this story and not read the first installment or the second, please do so.  The existing plot points, characters and establishment of their lives will matter.  We are entering a time in Queen's history that contains many triumphs but will soon lead to a road of tragedy and loss.  The band is at the top of their game as they begin recording their next album.  But the strain of 10 years together is starting to show.  Creative tension and the need to keep up with the pace of a rock &amp; roll lifestyle will begin to create problems.  A new darkness is emerging in the world that will have an enormous impact on all their lives.  It will threaten everything that matters and cause each of them to react in ways they could never imagine.  Will the group survive all the turmoil?  Will Brian and Roger survive the stresses placed on their relationship?  And - what will be the final thing that makes Brian and Roger willing to reveal their most sacred secret to the world?  I hope you will join me for a dramatic journey through the 80's...one filled with love, laughter, tears, mistakes, forgiveness and remembering what matters most...friends will be friends...right til the end.
    Series
          Part 3 of Maylor - A Love Story
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    8,351
    Chapters:
    2/?
    Comments:
    6
    Kudos:
    8
    Bookmarks:
    2
  Hits:
  111
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
