      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. The Champion's Son
2. Mysterious Figure
3. Returning to the Weald
4. Victor's ambition
5. A night out in the stars
6. Sudden Change
7. To the Mines
8. Neil's ambition
9. Gloria's Resolve
10. Truth
11. A fiery drive
12. Victor's Battle
13. The next step
14. Through the Northern Wild Area
15. Believing in others
16. Test of Resolve
17. The Champion
18. Battle between Rivals
19. New Resolve
20. The Truth of the matter.
21. Victor and Bede
22. Tangled Time
23. Alternate Reality
24. Neil and Hop
25. A Quiet Dilemma
26. The Pokemon Rangers
27. New Path
28. Family bond
29. Signs of a Hero
30. Road to Circhester
31. To Circhester
32. Confession
33. Newfound Love
34. The Two Heroes
35. Frigid Ice and Warm Love
36. Parental Love
37. The Bond of Friendship
38. Spikemuth Gym
39. Dark Markings
40. Ones Future Goals
41. Gym Leader Piers
42. The Final Stretch
43. The Final Hurdle
44. Into the Power Plant
45. A Tough Choice
46. The Last Train Ride
47. Love and Snow
48. A Mysterious Guest
49. Mother and Son
        Full-page index
      Comments
        Hide Creator's Style
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandoms:
               Pocket Monsters | Pokemon - All Media TypesPocket Monsters | Pokemon (Main Video Game Series)Pocket Monsters: Sword &amp; Shield | Pokemon Sword &amp; Shield Versions
              Relationship:
               Hop/Masaru | Victor
              Characters:
               Masaru | VictorHop (Pokemon)Yuuri | GloriaOriginal Pokemon Trainer(s)
              Additional Tags:
               Action/AdventureSlow BurnEstablished RelationshipMutual PiningTime TravelAlternate UniverseFluff and AngstHurt/ComfortSiblingsGloria and Victor are twins
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-07-17Updated:2020-10-09Words:67598Chapters:49/?Comments:18Kudos:115Bookmarks:3Hits:3246
    #workskin img.banner{display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;padding-bottom:10px;max-width:100%}  
      Lessons in True Strength
      CertainVICTORy
      Chapter 49: Mother and Son
    Chapter Text
  “Quit the challenge? What are you talking about?” Victor stared at his mother, who bit her lip and looked away.
  “Vic, I did a lot of thinking after I saw you at the hospital and your sister and that boy were right; I only forced you to do this challenge cause I wanted you to. And look at what happened, you injured yourself, and Gloria hates me!”
  “She does?” Victor gripped his bag as his mother nodded.
  “Yes, it’s probably because I forced her just to tag along with you.”
  “You also blamed her for Victor’s injuries!” Neil appeared from behind Victor and pointed at Victor’s mother.
  “Mom…” Victor’s face firmed up, and he looked up at her. “Is that true?”
  “Vic, please, it was the heat of the moment.”
  “So blaming Gloria for something I did was out of impulse?” Victor raised his voice, causing his mother to wince. “Mom, we love you, so so much, but ever since Dad left us, you’ve been very obvious on who you favored more.”
  “That’s not true; I love you both equally!” 
  “Really now, is that why you blamed Gloria for my injuries?” Victor gripped his bag and shook his head as he looked down at Neil. “Neil told me everything that you said.”
  “Victor!” His mother cried out as she touched his arm. “You believe this child more than your own mother?”
  “This child has a name, ma’am!” Hop gripped Victor’s shoulder as he cleared his throat. “I don’t know what’s going on between you guys, but I know favoritism when I see it! And it’s clear as day that you love Victor more.”
  “Hop…” Victor’s mother glared at the teen and shook her head. “Stay out of this. This is a family matter, come on Victor...let’s get you home, and then we can decide a better career path than this.” She grabbed his arm and pulled but froze as he took it back. “Victor?”
  “You don’t know me at all, mom…” Victor held Hop’s hand and smiled at him as he fixed his gaze back at his mother. “The thing is, thanks to taking this challenge, this is something I want to do!” He clenched his fist and stared at the bracelet that adorned his arm. “Mom, I told you before I wanted to take this challenge because I was curious about it.”
  “Yes, I remember that…” She bit her lip as she stared at her son.
  “Well, after all the fun and wacky adventures, I went with Hop, Gloria, and even Neil; that curiosity turned into drive...something so strong that hey, maybe I can become champion too! I know it’s gonna be tough, given my best friend is striving for the same dream as me, but that’s why we are rivals! We fuel our drive together!” Victor blushed a bit as he adjusted his polo. “What I’m trying to say is, well, you weren’t the reason I took this challenge, not anymore...I did this for me and me alone!” 
  “Victor…” His mother hugged herself and stared at the ground. “I’m sorry for being a terrible mother to you both…”
  “I’m not sure if sorry will cut it, Mom; You don’t even know that Gloria wants to be a Pokemon Ranger!”
  “She does?” Victor nodded as he chuckled.
  “Yeah, she found her calling, just like I did; and we did it on our own...and I knew that you love me more. And I hated that! It wasn’t fair to Gloria or me! Mom, you’re supposed to love us equally…Mom, if you’re truly sorry, you’d support me and Gloria…It’s what I would do.” 
    ‘Dad?’ 
  Neil stepped back away from the group’s view as he smiled to himself. 
    ‘That’s right; he said the same thing before.’ 
  Neil looked back from whenever he defeated Kabu the first time. Victor came by to see his match, and he was so excited.
    ‘Neil, I’m so proud of you! You’ve got the makings of a great Champion!’ 
    ‘Well, I did learn from the best! Thanks for watching me battle!’ 
  Neil smiled as Victor and Hop hugged him.
    ‘Of course, son, we love you so much, and we want to support whatever path you take; because we love you for who you are, not what we want you to be.’ 
  Neil smiled at Victor’s back and laughed to himself. 
    ‘I guess that’s why they became such good dads to me...but’ 
  Neil sighed as he stared at his phone. 
    ‘I wish I could be with you guys for real…’ 
  “Victor…” Victor’s mother sighed as she reached towards her son but froze as she took her hand back. “You’re right...I’m sorry for the pain I caused you both...I promise I’ll do my best to support you both;”
  “Well, it’s a start…” Victor crossed his arms as his mother nodded at him.
  “I wish you both best of luck; I’m going to go now and do some thinking. Would you mind telling Gloria that I’ll be looking for her?” 
  “She’s at the ranger station if you need her…” Victor looked down at Neil and smiled at him. “Right?”
  “Yeah…” Neil chuckled, as Victor’s mother stared at him.
  “Well, alright then, I’ll do just that; be seeing you both.” With that, she took her leave.
  “Vic…” Hop held his boyfriend’s hand and looked at him. “Are you oka-” Suddenly, Victor hugged Hop and buried his face into his jacket.
  “I am now; there was so much I wanted to say to her; I know she had good intentions, but the way she did her parenting was so bad...I just wish I said something sooner.”
  “You did what you could,” Hop massaged Victor’s head and chuckled. “Now, she knows that you want to do this, and she’s even gonna talk to Gloria!”
  “Yeah, you’re right...I’m glad she’s starting to understand…” Victor smiled a bit as he stared at the stadium. “Shall we get signed in?” 
  “Yeah…” Hop took Victor’s hand and walked towards the Stadium.”
  “Um..” Neil twirled his fingers a bit as he raised his voice. “Victor, Hop, there’s something I need to tell you about Gloria.”
  “What is it?” Victor raised a brow as Neil bit his lip.
  “She’s…”
  “She?”
  “She wishes you luck in your challenge!” Neil placed his arms behind his head. “Yeah!” 
  “Okay, cool! Still, “ Victor sighed as he looked up at the sky. “I wish she could be here with me to see this. I don’t know what she’s thinking, leaving like that.”
  “I’m sure she has her reasons.” Hop placed his arm on Victor’s shoulder and smirked at him. “Remember what you said before? That she found her own path to walk.”
  “Yeah, you’re right...thanks, Hop.” Victor kissed his boyfriend on the cheek, causing Hop to blush.
  “Of course...let’s go get registered.”
  “Right behind you.”
  “Oh,” Hop jumped up slightly. “Why do you keep saying you’re the one who’s gonna be Champion! I’m your number one rival! I think I have a good chance!”
  “Yep! And I’ll be ready to take you on!” Neil sighed and placed his hands in his hoodie.
  “Great, I can’t tell them that Gloria’s been kidnapped...what am I gonna do?”
  “Hey Neil!” the boy jumped as Hop ran towards him and took his head. “Let’s go get you registered too!”
  “Oh, okay…” Neil followed along with the pair and stared at Hop and Victor.
    ‘Right...I have to battle one of them...but if I win, that means I get to go home, but how would they react? What if I became Champion...would that change everything? I just don’t know what to do anymore.’ 
  Neil looked down at his pin and shook his head at it, as he approached Wyndon Stadium.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
  Comments
          SeongCastle, cttalys, Scy114, ghostpuddle, SilverStorm0, ZamazentaShield, backflipintothesun, Miss_Miku, Endless_Torment, ToadMask, RockinRobin88, Ultimate_potato, Sunny_16, NTDNMA, StarryDreamer101, Todou_Shion_13254, roseltheteacup, Florafionpetals, vennite, thequinninator, Queen_of_Spheals, LeonBatFlap, suitableforme, Mistereotype, and ryuuseirune
             as well as 
          90 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
