      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  This work could have adult content. If you proceed you have agreed that you are willing to see such content.
    Proceed
    Go Back
  If you accept cookies from our site and you choose "Proceed", you will not be asked again during this session (that is, until you close your browser). If you log in you can store your preference and never be asked again.
      Redemption
      by
      Spartan5271
      Fandoms:
      Red Dead Redemption (Video Games)
 Mature
 Graphic Depictions Of Violence, Major Character Death
 Gen
 Work in Progress
    10 Oct 2020
  Tags
    Graphic Depictions Of Violence Major Character DeathSadie Adler &amp; Original Female Character(s) Arthur Morgan &amp; Original Female Character(s) Abigail Roberts Marston/John Marston Jack Marston &amp; John Marston Abigail Roberts Marston &amp; Jack Marston Kieran Duffy/Karen Jones &amp; means family relatedDutch van der Linde Hosea Matthews Arthur Morgan John Marston Micah Bell Bill Williamson Javier Escuella Charles Smith (Red Dead Redemption) Leonard "Lenny" Summers Leopold Strauss Sadie Adler Simon Pearson Orville Swanson Karen Jones (Red Dead Redemption) Tilly Jackson Abigail Roberts Marston Original Female Character(s) Mary-Beth Gaskill Molly O'Shea Kieran Duffy Uncle (Red Dead Redemption) Jack MarstonBandits &amp; Outlaws The End of the Wild West
    Summary
      Myra Owens was the sole ranch hand for the Adler Ranch and was like a daughter to the Adler family. But after a set of events, their lives are forever changed. Their home? Gone. Myra's father figure? Murdered. And what remained of the Adler residence were surviving with some honorable undesirables known as the Van der Linde gang, outlaws on the run from the authorities. As she lives alongside these people, Myra begins to feel a parental bond beginning to form with one member of the gang in particular, while also noticing the changes in her other parental figure. Is it possible for things to ever return to normal? Or is it too late to start again?
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    50,489
    Chapters:
    15/?
    Comments:
    4
    Kudos:
    22
    Bookmarks:
    6
  Hits:
  407
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
