      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. A fresh start
2. 'strip the gillyweed'
3. Turmoil
4. ... illuminating
5. Something to think about
6. Birthday surprise(s) - Part One
7. Birthday surprise(s) - Part Two
8. Pause and Reflect
9. Two Steps Closer
10. In defence of new friends
11. Beneath the Stars
12. Invitation
13. Daphne and Draco
14. Hogsmeade
15. One step forward, two steps back
16. Halloween
17. Aftermath
18. Aftermath - Part Two
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warnings:
               Graphic Depictions Of ViolenceNo Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               F/MM/M
              Fandom:
               Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling
              Relationships:
               Hermione Granger/Draco MalfoyHermione Granger/Theodore NottDraco Malfoy/Theodore NottHermione Granger/Draco Malfoy/Theodore Nott
              Characters:
               Hermione GrangerDraco MalfoyTheodore NottHarry PotterRon WeasleyGinny WeasleyRubeus HagridNeville Longbottom
              Additional Tags:
               Slow BurnFormer Enemies to Friends to LoversHarry Potter Epilogue What Epilogue | EWEHogwarts Eighth Yearslight au i guessPost-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSDNightmaresAngstFluffComfortEventual SmutSoft DracoSoft Theotheo wears reading glassestags to be updatedRating will probably go up tooi just stuck it at mature for nowgraphic violence tag is just a warning for later when there are memories of the warit's not a gory tale at allAU feelminor hand kink too i guess
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-06-15Updated:2020-09-17Words:75661Chapters:18/?Comments:511Kudos:508Bookmarks:146Hits:13573
      All that's best of dark and bright
      coffeestainsandcashmere
      Chapter 18: Aftermath - Part Two
          Summary:
            A continuation of Draco, Theo, and Hermione's chat in the cloisters. They share a little more closeness, and upon re-entering the castle, are spotted by Ginny...
        Notes:
          It's Cashmere's venomous tentacula here. Your comments have allowed me to gain sentience, and I'm now posting this on Cashmere's behalf, because they're too happily overwhelmed by your reactions to the last chapter to funtion. Still. They asked me to say that this is a part two to the last chapter. Soon we'll see Draco flying (and in his quidditch kit!), and the Gryffindor-Slytherin match is coming up too... Things will get steamier between the three of them gradually, since they've still got some things to work through, but we're not going for mega-drama here. There will be some plot too, so kudos to you if you remember the crumbs dropped much earlier. Other than that, before I sign off, I'd like to thank you on behalf of Cashmere for your lovely comments and continuing enthusiasm. I get cuddles and doxy venom every time someone leaves a nice comment, and as a venomous tentacula, I can tell you that that literally is the best, so thank you. I'll go and pat Cashmere on the head now and make sure they're stocked up with caffeine for when they finally come back to life. x
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    She leaned back from Draco’s lips and laughed. “Good.” His expression was caught between that of someone who had been slapped in the face and someone who had been told the best news of their life; at the same time.  “Draco?” she asked. As she regarded him, he offered her a dazzlingly brilliant smile. It lit up his whole face, changing it from icy and stern to open, and gloriously happy for a few heartbeats before he began to blush and looked away.  Theo nudged her in the ribs and said, “I don’t think I’ve seen him smile like that since Narcissa dearest bought him his first broom for Christmas when he was six, Hermione.” Merlin, she felt light and almost giddy. “Do I take that as a compliment?” she asked archly, still chuckling. “And no innuendos about being ridden. It’s far too soon for that, and I know you’re more than likely to make one anyway,” she added quickly with a pointed finger at Theo, whose eyes just sparkled innocently before he closed them and leaned back against the stone wall behind him.  “Oh Hermione,” he exhaled, spine sagging. “You have no idea how much stress we’ve both been under.” She raised an eyebrow and sat back against the wall to join him, steadying her tea with one hand. “I know I’ve been kind of oblivious, but I think I have some idea, Theo. I’ve been going slowly mad all term, wondering if fancying two guys who are already in a relationship with each other is morally reprehensible at the very least.” Without opening his eyes or raising his head from the wall, Theo offered a lopsided smirk that fleetingly showed a canine before relaxing his face again. “Meanwhile Draco and I were wondering if a Gryffindor would ever stoop to kissing a Slytherin. We checked Hogwarts: A History, you know? There’s no record of it ever having happened in the entire history of the school…” Hermione thwacked him lightly in the chest with the back of her hand. “Hogwarts: A History records much more important things than who’s snogging whom, Theodore Nott. I would know. It’s my favourite book and I’ve lost count of the number of times I’ve read it.” “Uh-oh, I got my full name,” he said to Draco over the top of Hermione’s hair. “I can’t be in that much trouble already…” Draco still hadn’t moved or spoken since she’d kissed him, and she reached over for his hand with her spare one and tentatively rested her palm over his where it had fallen to lie palm-down and quiescent on his thigh. “Draco?” she asked. “You alright?” “Mmm,” he hummed. His silver eyes still looked a little glassy, but they had regained their intensity, and the blush was gone too now. He swallowed and cleared his throat, blinking a few times.  Theo leaned forwards and touched Hermione’s shoulder gently. “Give him a minute, love. He’s been fantasising about that happening since third year.” Draco’s eyes narrowed dangerously at Theo and Hermione giggled, “Third year?” “Yeah,” Draco said in a hoarse croak.  “But I broke your nose in third year…” “Yeah.” Theo laughed again. “Who knew all it w-would take to win Draco’s heart would be to break his beautiful nose…” Draco levelled Theo with a look and said dryly, “You may have a point. If I recall correctly, you nearly broke my nose as a child, racing broomsticks around the gardens at the Manor…” A heartbeat after he’d finished that sentence, his already pale skin turned grey and he shot Hermione a wide-eyed look, laced with panic.  She smiled and squeezed his fingers. “It’s ok, Draco. I… I’m not going to shatter if you mention your family home, or your parents… I…” she paused and pursed her lips before continuing. “I actually worked through a lot of what happened to me with a therapist in Diagon Alley this summer. I’ve got a long way to go, but it really helped. A lot. You can say Bellatrix’ name, and you can talk about Malfoy Manor.”  There was a load of stuff she still had to untangle, but those at least were at least topics should could bring up without breaking out into a sweat. She was anything but happy talking about what had happened to her, but at least she was coming to terms with it. She wondered if Draco would ever think about seeing someone in a professional capacity, and decided that however good for him it might be, he probably wouldn’t. At least not yet anyway.  Draco still looked vaguely green. “I’d rather not mention my aunt’s name if I don’t have to,” he said gruffly. “But I’m glad you… I… I mean… I’m glad you’ve been able to… you know…” He didn’t meet her gaze as he spoke, but he didn’t need to.  Hermione began to run her thumbs idly over his knuckles. A moment or two later, Draco let out a harsh exhale and she glanced up to find that he’d closed his eyes and was now mirroring Theo by leaning his head back against the stonework of the castle while she doodled idle circles over his knuckles. “You know…” she said, aiming for coy but falling a little short due to a sudden surge of self-consciousness, “I… I really love your hands, Draco. You’re terribly distracting in Potions…” “That why you can’t brew a decent draft?” he asked without bite.  She laughed. “No, but I’d like to pretend it was. I’m just not as intuitive at it as you are.” “Neither’s Theo,” he said, eyes still closed. His consonants had gone soft and there was a slightly blissful slur to his words now. “He’s all Arithmancy and calculations.”  “You like that?” she asked as she noticed it, and he nodded.  From beside her, Theo chuckled. “Oh Draco, I’m going to have so much fun watching Hermione discover all the things that make you soft.” He paused for effect and then added, “And hard.” “Granger makes me hard just by being there,” Draco smirked without missing a beat. “Though don’t let that stop you,” he offered in her direction. Hermione found another laugh bubbling up inside her, and when she set it free, Theo looked at her curiously. “What?” he asked. He still hadn’t really touched her, and with her hands occupied with tea and Draco’s knuckles, she couldn’t initiate.  “I’m just thinking how much easier this all would have been if we’d brought it up sooner,” she said.  Theo agreed by way of a bob of his head, but then said, “Yeah, but we wouldn’t have got to know each other first. You’ve had the chance to see how different Draco is, and you and I have had some real heart-to-hearts on patrol as friends first. I think… I dunno… I think it happened the way it was supposed to. Even if the pair of us have spent every private waking minute either with blue balls or getting each other off in frustration…” She let go of Draco’s hand and smacked Theo again lightly on his chest.  “Violent, aren’t you?” Theo snorted.  Instead of answering, she brought her hand up to the side of his face and ran her fingers up through his hair, starting in the shorter hair above his ear and going round to the back of his head in one smooth motion. Theo melted, all the playful banter leaving him, and he let out a long, low groan, eyes rolling shut. “Fuck,” he hissed.  At the contact, her magic began to reach gradually for him; subtly, but with intent, like a cat prowling along a wall.  “Fuck, tell me you can feel that?” Theo hissed a second later. “My magic?” He nodded. “And mine. And… And Drake’s too…” “Yours must be pretty intertwined already by now,” she said softly, starting another pass through his thick, curly hair. “What’s that like?” “You mean yours isn’t with Potter and Weasley?” Draco interrupted. There was a slight note of disdain when he said their names; an echo of his old sneer.  She shook her head, her own wild curls springing forward over her shoulders with the movement. “I’ve never felt my magic stir like this. When we were living in that tent for weeks on end, we did develop a kind of affinity for one another, sensing each other’s moods to a certain extent, but my magic has always remained my own. This… This is different. It’s happened a few times…” “When?” Theo asked, cracking an eye open. “Don’t stop…” he added when her fingers faltered.  It was her turn to smirk, and she shook her head but didn’t stop.  “Careful,” Draco warned in a playful drawl. “Don’t let him get his own way too much. He’s truly unbearable when you spoil him.” “I bet you spoil each other all the time,” she countered, scrunching Theo’s hair experimentally in her fingers - simply because she could now - and he bit back a deeper groan. “You’re very sweet together you know?” Draco offered her a shy smile and stared out at the little garden.  Hermione inhaled and did drop her hand back to her lap to cradle the remnants of her tea. It was starting to go cold, so she drew out her wand and warmed it, and noticed the way Draco and Theo both shivered subtly. “You felt that then?” They both nodded. If their magic was reacting like that to hers, surely it had to be a good sign? She’d only really heard about it happening after a formal bond had taken place, or if two people had been together for years and years. Molly Weasley’s magic was almost indistinguishable from Arthur’s, according to what she’d told Ginny; the two of them could read each other like an open book, to the extent that they could feel a degree of the other’s emotions through the bond. But they were married. It shouldn't be happening this quickly, should it? “I think the first time I really noticed it was when we were all walking up from that evening at Hagrid’s,” Hermione said after a while. “When we shared a spell…” Theo said. “I passed a  wingardium leviosa  over to you and it didn’t even shake. Remarkable really, when you think about it.” “We’ve done spellwork together before in Charms,” she said. “I hadn’t felt anything exceptional then.” He shook his head, curls jostling softly. “No, but we’ve never done the same spell together in Charms; we’ve only worked in partnership with spell and counterspell. I thought I was drunk when you let your magic slide against mine.” “He was hopeless for hours afterwards,” Draco said dryly.  “Fuck off,” Theo scoffed. “You couldn’t stop talking about how gorgeous Granger’s hair looked in the firelight, like some moping Byronic hero mourning a love he could never have…” If Hermione hadn’t been so surprised that Theo - a pureblood wizard - knew who Lord Byron - a muggle poet - was, she might have been a little more bashful that Draco had thought her hair pretty. Instead, she blurted, “You know who Byron is?”  Theo’s eyes flashed. “Why of course I do, Hermione. I’m offended at your surprise.” She shot him a flat look and he laughed.  “Alright, I have a passing kn-knowledge of some of the key figures of muggle literature - mostly to spite my father if I’m honest- though I’m not sure I’d pass seventh year Muggle Studies… I could quote him at you, but I’d rather not bungle it. Give me some practice…” “Fair enough.” A natural lull developed in their conversation, but it didn’t feel awkward. They all took a moment to breathe, to adjust to the new state of things, and let it soak into them.  Some time later, Theo spoke up again. “What are you doing today?” he asked. “I think we should go on a proper date…” “I’ve got quidditch practice after lunch,” Draco said regretfully. “Not due to finish til supper. Don't let that stop you two though.” “You sure?” Hermione asked. “I don’t want you to feel left out… especially since this is all completely new…” Draco offered her a gentle smile and nodded, stifling a yawn.  “You didn’t sleep much either then,” she murmured.  “Got more than Theo,” he said wryly, casting silver eyes at his boyfriend.  Hermione turned to look at Theo again. “Oh?”  He waggled his eyebrows and said, “Too busy th-thinking about how badly I’d fucked this all up by trying to k-kiss you last night…” Something in her chest gave a pang at that and she left her tea mug levitated in the space in front of her and turned to face him so that her back was to Draco and she was almost sitting side-saddle on the chilly stone bench. “I’m really am sorry I flew off the handle like that…” she said. “I just got so freaked out that I’d messed everything up somehow…” “It’s not always on you, Hermione,” Theo said very quietly. “In the time I’ve got to know you, I’ve learned that you like to try and take on the entire burden of whatever the current problem is.” She swallowed and sat back a little. Did she?  “It’s a great failing of Potter and Weasley that they’ve permitted that over the years,” he went on. “I’m not about to insult your friends, or claim that I know what it was like for you three, constantly saving the entire wizarding world on a yearly basis, but…” he took a deep inhale through his nose, “… I do know that they’ve taken advantage of you and your immense generosity, time and time again. You may not have noticed, but I’ve seen you in the library until closing time, researching things that are definitely not part of the syllabus, and how many times have they just assumed you’ll pick up the slack…?”  She bit her lip, her chest roiling with emotions she’d pushed repeated under the rug for years. A fierce desire to defend her best friends surged in her but she forced it down again and tried to be rational. She shrugged. “They had their own problems - I mean, someone’s tried to kill Harry at least once a year since he got here, and —” “— I’m not saying you were wrong to do it, but I am wondering how many times they offered to help, or if they just assumed you’d pick up the slack…” She blinked rapidly, cheeks hot. “They have said thank you to me before,” she said. “I promise. I just… I like to be useful, and I can get a bit carried away…” “Ok,” he said gently. “I guess I’m just trying to say that you don’t have to take responsibility for everything… like last night,” he said, sitting up a little and shuffling so that he could hold her hand. His palm was warm and soft; the hand of a scholar. “I’m the one that pushed, Hermione. And I’m the one who could have been a little clearer about all of this. Draco was never going to initiate anything with you, on account of your history, so I knew it was all up to me. Having got to know you better this year, I should have been more explicit. Though…” he added with a wry grin that brought out his dimples, “I kind of thought I had been when I said that we’d be up for anything with you…” “When did you say that?” she asked, wracking her brains. “Oh, you mean… on patrol that time? After Peeves nearly scared the life out of me… when you told me a bit about Draco…” “Mmm.” “I kind of thought you were just being kind,” she said. She turned to look at Malfoy, who had an odd expression on his marble face. “Were you angry about him telling me that?” “Initially,” he said. “But I think I was more embarrassed than I was angry with him.” Draco then stood and stretched languorously, the crisp white shirt stretching flat across his shoulders before falling back into its slightly rumpled state again when he relaxed. She and Theo watched him pace a little, on the pretence of shaking out the stiffness in his legs from sitting on a cold bench, and then Hermione looked sidelong at Theo.  She placed her palm on his thigh and he smiled, closing his hand atop hers.  “I’m sorry I made you feel like it was your fault,” he said in a rough whisper, bowing his head a little to look at the spot where their hands touched.  “You didn’t. Not really. I’m very good at convincing myself of things, you know?” she said, moving again and bringing her forehead to touch his. “I can be very stubborn.” They were close enough to share a breath in the cool autumn morning, and they stayed like that for a long time while Malfoy paced idly along the length of the small cloister and back again.  Finally, Theo sighed and pressed a kiss to her forehead. “We should return the cups and plate to the hall,” he said, standing and clearing his throat.  He offered Hermione a hand up from the bench, which she took, and when he made to pull back, she tightened her fingers around his. He inclined his head, looking amused and pleased, and squeezed her back. Her forehead was still tingling where he’d kissed her, and she couldn’t stop smiling.  “It’s going to be a nice day,” she said, glancing up at the square of sky just visible above the cloister garden. “We could watch Draco train for a bit this afternoon?” Draco turned to her and raised his eyebrow.  “What?” she asked. “And do you have any idea how attractive that is?” Apparently he didn’t, because he tilted his head curiously, though he didn’t lower his eyebrow.  Theo leaned in and said in a stage whisper near her ear, “You mean the eyebrow thing?” “Yeah,” she said in an equally audible hiss without taking her eyes off Draco. “How does he do it?” Draco laughed briefly and came a little closer. “Practice, Granger. I’ve had years to practise looking scathingly sceptical when you and your friends have given me endless sources of exasperation. And you hate quidditch…?” She returned his laugh with one of her own and stepped forward to put her hands on his hips. His breath caught visibly at the contact, but she didn’t give him the chance to back away or doubt himself. She cupped his sharp jawline in her right palm and kept her left on his slightly jutting hip bone. “You’re too beautiful to look so cynical all the time, Draco,” she whispered.  Without a flicker of warning, Draco’s hands flew to her hair and he gripped her hard, rearing close to her and crushing a kiss against her lips that left her dizzy. A hand at the small of her back that could only have been Theo’s steadied her while Draco poured his heart out into that kiss, his eyes closing, his hands scrunching her hair almost painfully. It was the most searing kiss she’d ever had, and she opened herself to him, feeling the cool tingle of his magic meeting hers. The rush of it was enough to make her moan.  In that moment, she realised the meaning of his kiss to Theo the night before: I’m not angry with you. You can do what you like and still be mine. You can be hers and still be mine . The impact of her realisation almost made her cry. Brightest witch of her age, and she was more than capable of being an idiot.  Hermione kissed Draco back with everything she had, clinging to his narrow hips as much for balance as to hold herself close to him. Finally he drew back, breathless, and stared at her. His pupils were huge, leaving barely a sliver of silver around the edges, and his lips were puffy and kiss-swollen. That lovely flush was also just starting to make itself known again across his cheekbones.  “I have to agree with her, love,” Theo said to Draco with a chuckle in his voice. “You really are too beautiful.” He hadn’t taken his hand from her back, and he rubbed a quick circle there before drawing away. “Come on, before we move more quickly than we probably should, given everything…” Draco blushed bashfully but held out his hand to her, raising an eyebrow.   With a smile, she slid her fingers into his while Theo collected the plates and her tea mug which was, miraculously, still hovering behind her. The charm broke when he touched it, and he added it to the stack in his hand. The food on the plate was mostly untouched, and as they passed the abandoned pain-au-chocolat that Draco had hurled at his head earlier, Theo stooped and picked it up.  They reentered the castle together, with Hermione’s hand still in Draco’s, and had just turned towards the Great Hall to return the crockery to the table, when Ginny’s voice rang out.  “Hermione! There you are, I’ve been —” her words died in her throat when she saw that Hermione and Draco Malfoy were holding hands. “Hermione?” Draco instantly let go of her as if he’d been burned, and she turned to look at him with a scowl. “Remember what I said about not being ashamed?” she said.  “Remember what I said about you being so bloody fierce?” Draco shot back acerbically, defensively. “We’re not all as brave as you are, Granger.” “Oh,” she said. It hadn’t occurred to her that he’d let go of her because he was wary of Ginny’s reaction. She took a breath and said, “I’m sorry. Well, it looks like I’ve got some explaining to do…” She glanced from Draco to Theo. “Shall I meet you at the quidditch pitch after lunch? What time do you start?”  “Half one,” Draco said. “But you really don’t —” “I know,” she said with a smile. “I’m not going to stay all afternoon because I really do hate quidditch, but it’d be nice to watch you fly all the same. Ginny’s right; you are brilliant.” “Careful,” Theo said with that glint back in his blue eyes. “Or he’ll show off and hurt himself.” “He’s got an important match to play next weekend,” she said sternly. “He’ll do no such thing.” “He’ll try not to,” Draco said dryly. “C’mon,” and he brushed past Theo into the Great Hall.  Hermione crossed to Ginny, who had been observing the whole interaction in much the same way that someone might observe baby dragons playing in the wild; warily but with some amusement.  “Hermione?” she asked, eyes wide. “What’s going on? Last I saw of you yesterday you were marching out of the hall after dancing with Theo. I thought he’d done something to upset you…” She paused, eyes going to the hall where Theo and Draco had just disappeared, presumably pausing there to give the two girls some space. “And now you’re holding hands with Draco Malfoy?” “Long story,” Hermione said. “Have you had breakfast already?”  “Not hungry,” Ginny grinned immediately. Her eyes were alight with curiosity and the anticipation of the delicious scandal she was about to hear from her friend. Combined with her tentative acceptance of Theo and Draco at the feast the previous evening, Hermione took that as a good sign. “Gryffindor common room. Now,” Ginny said, gripping her wrist with the strength of a quidditch player. Taking a deep breath, Hermione nodded, and allowed her friend to tug her up the Grand Staircase. With a final look over her shoulder, she saw Theo and Draco reemerging from the hall, watching her go.  “Good luck,” Theo mouthed melodramatically, and she rolled her eyes.  It was going to be fine she suddenly realised, and with that thought, she laughed almost all the way up to Gryffindor tower.  
        Notes:
          Hope you enjoyed the part two, and aren't worried about Ginny's reaction. I don't think it's spoilers to say that you needn't be. There's a steamy-ish bit with Theo on the horizon, and we'll see Draco in his quidditch gear soon! If you have any questions or want to leave comments elsewhere, you can find me on Tumblr at coffeestainsandcashmere. I'm a very small blog on there, but I always welcome anons and inboxes if you feel like it. I have got three prompts sitting in there which I've not had the time to write, but if there's something you want to know about my take on the characters, or about the story in general, or about anything really, do get in touch!
  Notes:
  You can find me at coffeestainsandcashmere.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (25)
  Comments
          MajickVyxxyn, Aleoleo, badaza, beta_cancri, PityJo, Mimi128, OfPaintAndOil, PinkGuildKnight, apsbeck, airgloweffect, salty_ttea, Sassafrasslass, Euphomonia, Grimmoiri, kurowashi, Kenn_Richard, gulabjamun, awell018, akahara_koei, MaxTheMess, slaginsecret, DanceWithMeKitten, Scarebear, tee_elle, Moletstar, Rumbleroar, Dracowarnercardand98, thanksbutno, Missfegan, ToTheOtherSide, disclosed_desires, Whimsical_1, RikkiL0311, Whatyouwanted, ShouyouPotter, allicat911, motherbearof3, BBEyes, starofcalantha, AStarlightMonbebe, Msjulbear, seattlesgirl, Noir_noir, Imoppasgirl, Underworld_Goddess, YoongisBaby, amartiniplease, koishii44, GirlYouDontKnow, kolminka, 
               and 231 more users
            Paradoxe09, Tt_tarawr, daisy_boffin, what_ever_boy, Reina363, rabblescum, savage_daughter, geenakmom, xladyxdreamer, ThebeMoon, littlemisspoet, The_Gingerbread_Knight, Annabelle6784, Lakelady, ISSTIAUTNG, madnesshpff, Rubbo, pphrts, irka0123, BookNook621, Amurray, smallhello, Kasycleo, KalopsiaWitch, shadystilinski, Briseis_of_Lyrnessus, SpuffyCarrie, Minuet33, Blutlust898989, coyg_81, CopperFish, minholythighs, ashish123, glitterkitty73, happycat101, Royan_Andor, GahMeep, RavenHallow, TamiM, Jennanicolep43, SSJ10, widuwairna, ohsiriusly, shoesoffplease, rrrowan, PersephoneB, Shygirlj, Arararagi, Rabradley09, Essie321, borealvalley, NotThatFarAway, Toothfairyliz, bakasid, backtoboomerang, Sossyboi0909, Hermione4Life23, hermixne, gingerteaandsympathy, alrischa, idolsgrave, atylermac, Random_Fandom0720, crochetwife, whatsherwhat, rjardina, anemrac947, harrysshands, Arastas, YunniexJoongie, Heavens_doors, KimberlyBQ, Binity, terry012227, SecretNerds, Paige_96, BSnape20, MythalGivesYouDreams, Mariamceia28, fightandfade, vjeklova, mischiefcat, sylithsenjak, Nicole_R, SweetEvil09, pennyhound, Kew_la, Iristar, maikomenagerie, Affectiion, Txtornado65, littlesunhikari, Caitlin237, literaryknowitall, honeypotts, CinnamonFreckle, mostardentlee, Lulu_Lollipop, Etherhial, sabmcd94, FullerCat, theriverandthedale, g3n2m, pinkdreams, EF686, K_I_A, CasperlikeJ, Gizzy161, SlytherinBadGirl, Little_Miss_Potato, QueenBeaNYC, miihsdn, LittleJalapeno, SnakeInTheGarden, JennaRose86, Bella_Rose301, Smile_Semi, LetteMom, mombi99, EsmeWeaver, winderah145, belleandtheotherguy, MintChipandBooks, hlharriss, SlyOnez, GreenGlitterSnowFlake, Reygrey48, ashegtn, EnviedFable, Kerriebee, katiek0828, irish_angel, oando313, deepnight_brightstarlight, psalmoflife, sarah_seasoning, Rougeaux35, silv3r_eyed_stranger, emberfey, Sparebrainchange, Logan_Lady620, Nightlycrazex, BenBitchops, Virabelle, m_winnike, TheAdamsAdministration, AliceHns, bluepanda, happiness8000, Lyanna_T, miscreant, TeaandKnittingNeedles, Sheedy, ale101417, Pastryplate, casling, Qer, FerchKalvaNiibi, Kedvamp, RainbowCraeyons, Enm1ty, TheWildDays, snowrose, book_owl, Luvanint, RiaRoo400, SCrabtrey125, Badassboymom, Micherie, Crydders, Noxem, Chiyozora, dreamer89, sophie10130, pinwheel, JPerks, EmilyDLu, xXMizzAlecVolturiXx, meryshelley, charlie_rj, DaysToRemember, sashaann88, altissimozucca, MileyMalfoy, Shesellsseachels, 3am_Reading, levrispero, Calindy, Mkcaraher, ShayVixen101, lucystevoo2027331, Crimson_19, LabelmeNot04, dawndream9435, Niggles, Nightingale_Blackbeak, ThePhoenix1011, Jacemilia, whitejadebush, misshardwicke, XxLorixX, ladymatilda, Aerinax, Jholmes1224, ekstarr, ForeverWithGirlsGeneration, envlurve, Roseberry_Topping, echoWonderland, Mariana_Monteverde, km2139, camdynisc0nfused, afrancum1, Georgiathewholedaythrough, Jarjar92, Nithara13, timnin, ShadowedScribblings, mlmrl, mbenj, silvercrowncookiemonster, Dreiks, volchitsa70, Lazergirl7, viciastra, nevea6, alk5434, Jsarys, Babymoonishere, corcor10 and emiie
             as well as 
          227 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
