      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               13 Reasons Why (TV)
              Relationship:
               Justin Foley/Clay Jensen
              Characters:
               Justin FoleyClay JensenMatt JensenLainie JensenClay Jensen's Aunt &amp; Uncle
              Additional Tags:
               ComfortFluffpossible future smutPost season threebrosnuggleCuddling &amp; SnugglingsleepingFeelings RealizationProtective Clay Jensenvery mild sexual contentPartial NudityKissingFirst KissChristmas FluffChristmas DecorationsChristmas TreeNew AgeModern DruidismAwkward Justin FoleyValentine's Day FluffThoughtful Justin FoleyEaster EggsChocolateInnuendoImplied Sexual Content
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2019-10-14Completed:2020-04-13Words:11667Chapters:11/11Comments:88Kudos:320Bookmarks:33Hits:6315
      Bro Hugs
      Uthizaar
          Summary:
              Clay felt like his life was divided into critical moments, some more important than others: the moment he brought Justin back, the moment he became more than just leverage, the moment he realized he really cared about Justin, the moment things began to feel reciprocated…
  Notes:
    (See the end of the work for notes.)
      Chapter 1
    Chapter Text
    Clay wasn’t sure how it all started, he wasn’t sure what it had developed into, what it was becoming. But that didn’t seem to matter, Justin never asked him to label it and Clay himself wasn’t willing to have that conversation. It just was. Whenever they needed each other, the silent, unspoken agreement was triggered; like a stressful school day or a sudden blast of unwelcome memory. He’d look at Justin, see the million dollar grin that lit up his eyes and then… “You wanna watch some TV?”
It was an innocent question. But then, everything they were doing was innocent. It was only afterwards, lying awake on his back as Justin snored softly in the other bed across the room that Clay questioned whether his own motives were as pure as Justin’s seemed to be. As the night dragged on, Clay threw his mind back to the first time it happened.
“Hey, what are you watching?” Justin leaned on the couch behind him, the faint smell of sweat and deodorant wafting down to Clay.
“Hmm, just some military film.” He replied, unconsciously flaring his nostrils as he breathed in the scent of fresh football practice. “Been ages since I just sat and watched something. No idea if it’s any good, but lots of explosions so far. I’m only about twenty minutes in, if you want to join?”
“Uh, sure.” Justin answered, somewhat unexpectedly. He vaulted the couch and landed next to Clay with a grin. “Training was brutal today and Jess is studying, so why not, right?”
“Cool.” Clay shrugged and resumed the film. As it played out, he became more aware of Justin’s proximity. The way their shoulders were pressed together despite the couch being large enough for three people to sit comfortably, the way Justin seemed to lean into him during the action sequences, the strange tingle he got whenever his bare arm brushed against Justin’s own. 
But as the film wore on and the explosions inexplicably lessened, Clay became aware of Justin leaning his head on his shoulder, his breathing slowing, falling asleep. He didn’t say anything, didn’t push Justin gently off to the side. Clay just left him there, privately enjoying the unexpected human contact. And once the film was over, he quietly turned the TV off and rested back in the couch, content to let Justin wake up in his own time.
Clay had expected that it wouldn’t happen again, that Justin would just shrug it off as being over-tired after practice or exhausted from the previous weeks of suspicion and drama. Neither of them said anything the next day, neither acknowledging it as more than just that; tiredness. And yet Clay secretly enjoyed the contact with Justin, not in some erotic or lewd way, well, not entirely. 
Justin was handsome and Clay was…coming around to the idea that sexuality really was a spectrum. The fact that they were living together, soon to be adopted brothers was a complication he blatantly ignored, focusing rather on the fact that they were close friends, willing to do anything for each other.
But the next occasion he was watching TV, this time a crime serial that was hitting a little too close to home, Justin rolled off his bed where he had been flicking through his English textbook and came over. The same question, the same exchange as last time, the same vault over the back of the couch to sit next to Clay. The same grin that made Clay feel things that weren’t exactly fraternal. 
He didn’t expect Justin to stay so close to him, to remain pushed against him, a reassuring heat and pressure from the contact of his warm pullover against Clay’s bare arms. After the first episode, Clay leaned back and stretched, catching Justin’s eye as he lowered his arms. “What?”
“Nothing.”
“Well, do you want to watch another one?”
“Yep.” Justin smiled at him. He slid lower on the couch than Clay, leaning over to rest his head on Clay’s shoulders as the episode started. They remained silent for the cold open, Justin only speaking as the credits rolled. “I don’t know why you’re watching this, it’s years out of date.”
“I like NCIS,” Clay replied defensively. “Ok, so the first few seasons were sexist, and the crimes never really have a satisfying conclusion, but there’s plenty of episodes.”
“Mmh,” Justin grunted against his shoulder. “I guess, but you’d think a show about the Navy would have a lot of eye candy. There’s barely any.”
“Well, most of the Armed Services are men so…” Clay trailed off as he felt Justin chuckle. “What?”
“Nothing.” Justin closed his eyes and sighed. “Is this ok?”
“Huh?”
“This.” He gestured at them both before looking up at Clay’s face. “Right now?”
“Yeah.” Clay answered after studying him for a long minute. “I like this.”
“Mmh, me too.” Justin smiled and closed his eyes again, this time reaching his arm across Clay’s chest to keep him in a loose hug. They didn’t speak for the rest of the episode, watching in silence until at some point near the end, Justin had fallen asleep against him.
Clay cautiously placed his hand over Justin’s forearm, playing gently with the fabric of his pullover. He tilted his own head towards Justin’s until they were barely touching and then let himself slip away into a pleasant snooze.
The pattern played out over and over, so familiar and reassuring that Clay felt weird whenever he was watching TV alone. It wasn’t jealousy that touched him whenever he saw Justin and Jess together, even if they seemed more like friends than lovers now. The truth about what happened on the pier had changed their dynamic, at least, that was how Clay rationalized it. He didn’t want to consider that there was something else happening, that Justin’s feelings had shifted away from Jess and towards…someone else.
He rolled over onto his side, watching Justin sleep on his stomach, his snores quietened as moonlight speckled across his handsome face. Despite the problems they faced, the unanswered questions, the fears about the future, Clay felt a measure of comfort and security at Justin’s presence, even if he was a few feet further than was preferable.
      Chapter 2
    Chapter Text
    One day, during the meaningless passage of time that characterized the shift from California Fall into Winter, the sun dimming and weather containing trace amounts of the true cold from the east, things changed. It wasn’t abrupt or even surprising, more of a natural evolution from where things had been going before. Clay hadn’t even set out to make it happen, it was just a beautiful confluence of events colliding together on a path that, it seemed, they both wanted.
He had come back from the airport on the other side of Oakland, leaving his parents to their flight. It meant he and Justin had the place to themselves, but that hardly mattered since they had the carriage house anyway. It was a cold day, the wind cutting through Clay’s jacket, although he didn’t take much notice as he left the comfort of his car and let himself into the carriage house.
Justin was sitting on the couch, flicking through the channels. He turned and smiled at Clay as soon as he entered. “Hey, did they get off ok?”
“Yeah, they won’t be back until Monday night.” Clay walked over to him, leaning down on the back of the sofa the same way that Justin always did. “You alright? What’s with the sweater?”
“I can’t get warm,” Justin shivered and rubbed his hands together. “Probably a side-effect of…you know.”
“Yeah, yeah, I know.” Clay replied softly as Justin avoided his eyes. “You’ve been doing well these past few weeks, did you have a, err, a-”
“No, no, I’m just cold.” Justin cut across him, this time looking directly at Clay. “You believe me, right?”
“Of course.” Clay nodded. There was something about Justin’s eyes, the way his brows pulled together, the gentle part of his lips, the abject sorrow that seemed to flow out from his gaze that always got to Clay. It was the type of expression that made him believe Justin even at times against his instincts, the type of expression that made him want to...protect him, make the past disappear. But for all that his heart hurt at Justin’s pain; it always vanished the moment Justin smiled at him. Clay wetted his lips and glanced at the TV. “So, what are you watching?”
“Nothing good.” Justin shrugged. “I don’t feel right.”
“Your feet are cold?”
“Everything is.”
“Hmm, ok, why don’t you use my laptop?” Clay suggested, explaining after Justin frowned. “You can watch it in bed; that should keep you warmer than staying out here.”
“Uh, yeah.” Justin stood up and tucked his hands into his pockets, holding Clay’s gaze. “You wanna watch with me? I was thinking of some sort of movie, you can join me.”
“Sure.” Clay answered carefully, not thinking too far ahead of himself. “Why don’t you pick something out; I’ve a big library on my hard drive. And I’ll make you a drink to warm you up.”
“Alcoholic?”
“No, hot chocolate.” Clay grinned at his expression. “It’ll make you feel better, trust me; the heat will keep you warm, the chocolate and marshmallows are sweet, and the milk will settle your stomach if you’re feeling nauseous too.”
“How did you know?” Justin smiled weakly. “I haven’t thrown up or anything, but don’t feel great there either.”
“Yeah, I gotchu.” Clay reached out and touched Justin’s shoulder, his fingers lingering against the thick synthetic wool. “Back in a minute.”
“Lord of the Rings, huh?” Clay asked as he put the tray down on the long chest of drawers that ran along the back wall between their beds. Justin had opted to set up in Clay’s bed, perhaps because the socket was closer for the laptop cable, perhaps for some other reason. “That’s like a nine hour movie marathon, bro.”
“Pretty sure it’s closer to eleven hours with all the added scenes in the expanded films.” Justin replied, already under the duvet, positioning himself closer to the wall, leaving the other half of the single bed for Clay. “Plus it’s like five in the afternoon and I don’t have any plans.”
“I guess that’s a good excuse.” Clay smirked and handed him a large cup of hot chocolate, the marshmallows at the top melting into a gooey, delicious mess. “Here, put that in the cubbyhole so you don’t spill it. Oh, and I got these when I was driving back from the airport, I know they’re your favorite.” He offered Justin a plate containing large, thick-cut cookies, chunks of milk chocolate visible throughout. 
“Woah, thanks!”
“I had to get gas.” Clay muttered as though he hadn’t intentionally diverted off the highway to pick them up. “You comfortable in there?”
“Yeah, beginning to warm up.” Justin nodded as Clay slipped his shoes off. “I’m cold but you’re not; you can take off your jacket if you want.”
“Hmm, don’t wanna melt, true enough.” Clay smiled and put his jacket over the end of Justin’s bed. He shook out his t-shirt and flipped the edge of the duvet back before getting inside. The bedsprings creaked and Clay moved over until he was closer to Justin, both of them sharing his stack of pillows. “Good?”
“Yeah.”
It was natural for them to fall into this pattern by now, so Clay wasn’t surprised when Justin scooted down more in the bed and shifted closer to him, resting his head on Clay’s chest after a pause of a few seconds. He adjusted the angle of the screen so that Justin could still see and put his right arm around Justin’s shoulders and back, his thumb and fingers stroking casually against him. “Can you see it?”
“Mmmh, yeah.” Justin murmured, turning more fully on his stomach. He was closer than usual to Clay now, slipping one of his legs in-between his own, his face touching against the crook of Clay’s neck. “Hmm.”
“Pretty sure you can’t see it.” Clay whispered, glancing down at him to see Justin arch his brows silently. “But I guess that doesn’t matter.”
“No.” Justin replied softly, his lips gently brushing along Clay’s Adam’s Apple in a way that sent shivers of something down his spine. “I can still hear it.”
“Mmh.” Clay slowly reclined more against his pillows until he was lying at an angle rather than sitting, the laptop off to one side on its cooling plate, the Fellowship delving into the Mines of Moria. Justin had moved with him, still pressing against him, his arms wrapping more easily around Clay’s torso as he angled his own body closer. Clay took a careful breath and raised his left hand and placing it on Justin’s hip, silently encouraging him to lie more fully against him. “Better?”
“Perfect.” Justin smiled at him again, unaware of the chaotic tumult that his expression caused in Clay’s chest. “Thanks, bro, I feel a lot warmer now.”
“Heh, me too.” Clay managed as Justin settled back down. He could feel the tickle of Justin’s breath on his skin and Clay swallowed thickly before he pulled his hand away from Justin’s hip and instead placed it on the back of his head. Clay felt a triumphant rush when Justin murmured contently at his touch and he began to stroke his hands through Justin’s wavy black hair.
Clay could feel his eyes closing even as Justin settled against him, his even breathing indicating that he had already nodded off. There was a pleasant heat between them at the points where they touched, and Justin’s body was a reassuring weight on top of him as Clay drifted off to sleep.
      Chapter 3
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    It was something he had yet to get used to: sleeping in a bed with another person. For all his life, Clay had slept alone, unused to sudden shifts in the mattress or being disturbed from his dreams by an errant elbow. And yet, for all the strangeness, there was nothing better than the sensation of waking up with Justin pressing into him, arms wrapped loosely around his torso, Justin’s face resting on his chest, his breath hot against Clay’s skin.
It was perfect though, the most perfect feeling in the world to be held, to hold Justin, to just exist in that moment. Sometimes he drifted back to sleep, other times he simply experienced it and mentally catalogued each second until Justin rolled over or moved away, yet other times, Clay found his thoughts pulled out of the warm comfort of their embrace and listing instead into reality and all that existed outside of his bed.
That first time, watching films, became normality, an almost nightly ritual when each knew they would be undisturbed. While Justin was frequently cold or feeling unwell, there were other times when there was nothing wrong, well, not physically. He had become used to the feeling of Justin’s weight on top of him, of the welcome contact and slow echo of his heartbeat above his own. On those occasions when Justin just wanted to be near him; whether under the sheets or on the couch, Clay always agreed readily, although he had never given voice to his own desires. 
It seemed like they were going in the direction that he longed for, although only within the safety of the carriage house. Their interactions outside, in school, on the way home, among friends; it was all…platonic. There had been nothing platonic about Clay’s fantasies in the shower the past few weeks, and while he wished Justin would give some indication that there were mutual feelings, Clay was still afraid that voicing his desires would rob him of the comfort he already had gained.
There had been a change the night before though; a subtle difference in the balance between them that Clay had easily assented to when Justin offered. The same as before; a film, an early night, Clay’s bed, Justin lying on top of him, facing the bright screen of the laptop. The room was warmer than usual, both having spent the Saturday inside, catching up on assignments. Faintly stuffy, but bearable, at least before getting under the duvet.
“You alright?” Clay murmured as Justin shifted against him. 
“Too hot.” Justin replied, rolling his head back to look up at Clay. “Gonna take my sweats off.”
“Yeah, fine, I’m already in my boxers anyway.”
“I know.” There was a change in his voice with those words, but Clay wasn’t sure what it meant. Justin smirked at him and rolled off to one side, Clay’s arm pinned under his back. 
After a struggle and partially kicking off the duvet, Clay could feel the soft fabric of Justin’s sweat pants with his feet. He felt a spark of fire erupt in his stomach when Justin rolled back on top of him, resuming his previous position. Although Clay had been vaguely aware of the shapely bulge that pressed against his thigh before now, without the sweat pants to obscure it, he was suddenly acutely conscious of the semi-hardness that tented out the soft cotton of Justin’s trunks. Justin shifted against him, dragging his bulge up and down Clay’s underwear covered hip and then along his bare thigh. He could feel his own hardness springing to attention and inched his pelvis away from Justin enough that his arousal wouldn’t be obvious. 
Justin didn’t seem to notice, although Clay was constantly aware of his hardon; the stress and desire making his heart beat faster, his t-shirt sticking to his skin uncomfortably. “Hmm.”
“You ok?” Justin asked him, echoing the earlier question. “You’re sweating.”
“Yeah, uh, I can-”
“I’ll move.”
“No!” Clay blurted out, cheeks flushing when Justin grinned at him, the special smile that drop-kicked his stomach into orbit. “I’ll, um, I can take my shirt off, if you’re ok with that?”
“It’s a good idea.” Justin nodded. Instead of rolling off him as usual, this time Justin cast his leg across Clay’s waist and sat up, straddling him. 
“Uh…” Any protest died on Clay’s lips as he watched Justin slowly pull off his t-shirt; the smooth, defined abs of his lower stomach coming into view. Clay’s eyes followed the lean torso upwards to the slight musculature of his pecs and then finally to the sweeping tattoo that covered Justin’s collarbones. The t-shirt was tossed to one side and it took Clay a moment to realize that the only thing Justin was wearing were his trunks and a devilish smile. “Um, wow.”
“C’mon, take it off.” Justin whispered to him, gesturing for Clay to sit up enough to pull his t-shirt over his head, thrown aside to join Justin’s own. “Mmh.”
The air was cool enough to dry the sweat on his back and torso, but Clay felt himself flushing again, keenly aware that the other guy had to feel his hardon with the way the Justin was still straddling his waist. Justin smiled again, that special little grin that was Clay’s undoing. 
The laptop was placed on the floor, the movie playing on unheeded. Instead, Justin pushed Clay gently back onto the pillows, before sliding down himself, lying back on top of Clay. Neither spoke, not even as their crotches brushed, hardons struggling against the other, occasional grunts and moans hinting at something more than just comfort being exchanged. Clay wrapped his arms around Justin and held him loosely, his hands confident on bare skin while Justin rested his head half on the pillow, half on Clay’s shoulder, the touch of his lips on Clay’s neck could have been a kiss or an accident. 
Sleep came like slipping into a hot bath; smooth and unrushed. Although dreams and night motions pulled him in and out of consciousness throughout the night, Clay was unaware of anything save Justin’s reassuring weight on top of him, of his smooth skin under his fingers, of Justin’s heady mix of cologne and sweat in every breath.
Pale rays of light came too soon, patterning across his face through the blinds. But contentment sat in his stomach as Clay savoured the gentle breathing from Justin, the glorious warmth that held them together, becoming slowly aware of his morning wood resting ever so perfectly against equal hardness. 
“Mmh,” Justin moaned sleepily at him. “Morning.”
“Good morning.” Clay muttered back. Even in drowsiness, Justin’s mouth was pulled into a puckish grin, and Clay felt an overpowering surge of confidence. He arched up abruptly, pressing his lips against Justin’s, the kiss chaste even if it was full of desire. It lasted a brief moment, Justin’s eyes fluttering open in surprise. Clay pulled back, fear overruling lust when Justin’s brows pulled together. “Sorry, I-”
“Don’t be.” Justin replied softly, returning the kiss. “Glad you finally took a chance.”
        Notes:
          There will likely be other chapters for this story, although I’m about to start another story for my main fandom so it’ll probably be early 2020 when I update this again. Thanks for checking this story out and I hope you enjoyed reading it!
      Chapter 4
          Summary:
            This is a short update for this story, taking Clay and Justin into the Christmas spirit.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Thanksgiving had been difficult; when the truth came tumbling out about Justin’s troubles, and although they had been mostly dealt with, Clay still felt a gnawing anguish inside that never seemed to fade away. Not even when he was with Justin in their special, intimate way. And things had become serious between them, not serious in some macabre reflection of their outside lives, but an importance to each other that translated into a deep, abiding fondness that just seeped through the air between them. Others had begun to notice it, outside the safety of the coach house, beyond their shared realm of peace and tranquility. It made Clay nervous and Justin…it was difficult to get a read on how Justin felt about their public selves. Perhaps he just wanted things to stay as they were; friends, soon to be brothers, accomplices in the lies-the other lies. Sometimes Clay wanted to throw all of that to the wind and take Justin’s hand in the hallway and damn the consequences. Sometimes it looked as though Justin wanted him to do that too...  Winter Break was a welcome relief from the pressures of school and friends, Christmas offering a collection of family traditions, each new to Justin. Clay liked seeing the happiness in his eyes, the eager excitement in throwing himself so completely into the Jensen holiday rituals. Putting up the tree had been a strange experience; moments of surprising confusion as Justin didn’t understand about having to water a living tree, other moments of bitter heartache as Justin’s cheeks became wet on being invited to hang a decoration, shared satisfaction at the end of the evening when the tree was adorned and the house cheered to sparkling lights and quirky decorations from his parents’ travels in their younger days.They had a smaller tree for the coach house; about a foot in height; a twirl of multi-colored lights strung through its prickly branches and a few baubles hung up to catch the light and reflect it across the main room. Justin had kissed him when they were done; a press of his lips on Clay’s smooth cheek at first and then, after he turned his head, their lips brushed together. An electric spark of fire ignited between them, passion and desire that culminated in a locked door, closed blinds, and messed-up bed sheets, their clothes tossed on the floor.Later, as Clay snuggled up against Justin’s naked back, their hands loosely clasped together around his stomach; he could hear the even rhythm of Justin’s heartbeat, smell the intoxicating mingled scent of sweat and aftershave that Justin always wore, heard his whispered gratitude at more than just their forty minutes of unity. Out of all the things that had happened this year, Clay was determined that Justin would remember this Christmas best of all, that it would be a bright, shining beacon to drown out all the horrible things that had forced themselves into their lives. They would feast and laugh and sleep, Justin would get to meet Clay’s eccentric druidic aunt and pottery spinning uncle from the Mid-West, they’d share gifts and food and each other, and nothing would shatter the perfect Christmas bauble Clay was determined to construct around them.
        Notes:
          More to come over the weekend. I’ll do about three or four chapters for this update. I have considered doing smut for these two, but I don’t think it’ll fit this story, so there may be a companion piece that has explicit sexual content for Clustin if there’s any interest, of course. Regardless, thanks for reading!
      Chapter 5
        Notes:
          The style of this chapter will be a little different; there’ll be a lot more dialogue, and it’s from Justin’s POV.
    Chapter Text
    It was Christmas Eve by the time Clay’s aunt and uncle arrived; his father having gone to pick up the relatives. Justin couldn’t stay still; standing near the front bay window, then pacing around in a circle next to the empty fireplace, idly reaching out to touch the edges of the stockings hung up the day before, other times sitting down next to Clay almost too close, their shoulders and hips touching. But every time Clay glanced over at his Mom, busy swiping at something on her tablet, she didn’t seem to notice. Clay gave Justin’s hand a reassuring squeeze and gestured with his head for them to go into the kitchen.
“What’s wrong?”
“Nothing.” Justin muttered, looking away from him.
Clay pressed his lips together and took Justin’s hand in his own again. He tightened his grip as Justin instinctively tried to pull away and instead looked at him. “You can tell me anything, remember?”
“Yeah, it’s…they’re your relatives, I just feel…out of place.” Justin mumbled, finally looking at Clay. “Like I’m just your friend or something, like a…visitor.”
“You’re so much more than that.” Clay replied, maintaining his gaze with Justin before he smirked and shrugged. “And to them, to everyone soon, you’re my brother, so don’t worry. Besides, my aunt and uncle are cool; they’re New Age, hippy-dippy, you’ll be fine.”
“Uh huh.” Justin frowned, but he seemed to have relaxed. There was reluctance as he pulled his hand away from Clay’s on hearing the car returning to the driveway. “Um, you never told me their names, by the way.”
“Yeah…I know, try to stay serious when the introductions are going.” Clay gave Justin a smirk and hugged him briefly from behind as Justin turned towards the doorway, voices and the thump of suitcases coming from the hallway. He withdrew his arms in time as his Mom poked her head around the door and gestured for them to follow. “Yeah, we’re coming.”
Justin followed Clay, staying behind him as the visitors exchanged greetings and hugs with Clay and his Mom. He chewed his lower lip and stuck his hands in his hoodie pockets-originally belonging to Clay-watching the man and woman enter the living room. They were slightly older than Clay’s parents; the man wearing a large, bright green woollen sweater with embroidered black and silver reindeer under an orange full moon, his head of greying thick hair was barely tamed, while beneath it, he wore a massive thick beard that looked like something out of the Russian Revolution. His wife, Clay’s Aunt, was dressed quite the opposite in a long, flowing silver dress with various trailing tails of different colored cloth and wavy gauze that made Justin think of a dandelion in the wind. She had a bright, open expression with sparkling green eyes and a ready smile.
He felt Clay nudge him, and Justin inched forward, extending his hand. “Hi, I’m, uh, Justin.”
“Mmh, Justin.” Clay’s Aunt nodded sagely as her husband shook his offered hand. “Coming from the Latin Justinus or Justus. You are fair, just, righteous even! It is a honor to meet you."
“Uh.”
“She writes those baby name entries for websites, you know, if you don’t know what to call your kid.” Clay explained as Justin took his hand back, whispering to him, “She’s never forgiven my Mom and Dad for naming me Clay!”
“That’s only the day job.” She waved his words away airily. “I’m a soul energy inspirationalist. That is my true calling.”
“Oh, err, cool.” Justin wet his lips nervous. “I didn’t catch your name, um.”
“I…am Skychild Fairtree.” She pronounced with a flourish as Clay’s Mom rolled her eyes from the doorway. “It is my druid name: Earth Mother chose it for me during the Spring Equinox in ’93.”
“Oh, um, that’s,” Justin searched for the appropriate response as Clay’s face stayed perfectly neutral. “That is an interesting name. And, err, your husband?”
“Frank.”
“Uh huh. Oh-ok.” Justin nodded again.
“You have a very strong energy about you, Justin.” Skychild said, moving towards him, causing Justin to back nervously into Clay. “Both of you do; that shared space you occupy has strengthened your auras considerably.”
“Err, yeah, I like Clay, err, I like living with Clay.” Justin stammered as Matt took the Fairtrees’ luggage upstairs and Lainie gestured for Frank to come into the kitchen. “Uh.”
“So, um, how was the flight?” Clay cut in before Justin got even more flustered. 
Justin mouthed his thanks as Skychild sat down on the couch and started to recount the story of their trip; from the commune’s bus that brought them to the airport, to the TSA agents who took offense when she tried to bless the security line with calming lavender, to the screaming babies in the row ahead who just didn’t seem to enjoy her melodic re-enactment of whale mating songs. 
By the time Frank and Lainie returned with tea and coffee and cookies, Justin had managed to keep his expression fixed in a rictus of polite interest, while Clay was much more animated, somehow. They sat side by side on the small sofa, perhaps a little too close together from the impish winks Skychild was giving him each time he looked her way. However, her attention was diverted when Clay’s father brought up the possibility of them going to Midnight Mass and in the ensuing debate over whether the Earth energies could be properly venerated in a cold metal and stone box instead of in the equally cold, and also windy, forest clearing before an ancient oak tree, Justin and Clay’s proximity was forgotten. Justin followed the debate with puzzled interest as Clay just smirked and over-indulged in the Christmas cookies they had baked and decorated together the day before. 
Finally, after much back and forth, it was agreed that Matt and Lainie would go to Midnight Mass as they usually did on Christmas Eve and Skychild and Frank would go to the local park to celebrate a late Winter Solstice by dancing with vim, vigor, and occasional nudity around whatever oak tree they found there. Clay quickly declined both offers and made a grand show of how tired and stuffed he was. Justin shook his head when Skychild asked if he wanted to lend his strong masculine aura to their spiritual dance. 
“No, I’m, I’m good. I’m gonna go with, uh…” Justin trailed off and looked helplessly at Clay.
“C’mon.” Clay grinned and stood up with Justin, both of them leaving the room. They made their way out to the coach house, stopping only to grab their stockings from the mantlepiece and for Clay to swipe another stack of the sugar cookies. He grinned at Justin as they finally closed the door on their sacred space and were alone in quiet sanctity. “You survived, right?”
“Just about.”
“Haha, you were fine, perfect even. Well,” Clay grinned lazily at him as he went to tie the end of their stockings to his bed. “You’re always perfect.”
Justin didn’t reply other than giving him a puzzled smirk and instead followed Clay over to the bed, collapsing on top of it. He flicked his gaze back to Clay, “You coming?”
“Hmm, we’re going to watch a film or something, right?”
“Later,” Justin grinned suddenly as Clay nodded and pulled off his sweater, a strip of pale flesh coming into view across his clenching and twisting abs. “I could really do with recharging my masculine aura right now!”
“Yeah, I guess I could help with that.” Clay crawled onto the bed next to him, lying comfortably on the pillow as Justin rolled over and hugged him, one leg slipping in-between Clay’s thighs, hooking them together. Justin rested his head on Clay’s chest and sighed contentedly when Clay held him loosely, one hand on his back, the fingers of his other hand slipping between Justin’s own fingers so they were clasped. “Ok?”
“Perfect.” Justin whispered into the fabric of Clay’s t-shirt, his eyes closed. “You know I could stay like this forever.”
      Chapter 6
        Notes:
          Sorry for not updating this story sooner, I've been very sick the past few days. The last (for now) chapter will be out tomorrow or Friday.
    Chapter Text
    Christmas morning washed over them in a haze of warmth and duvet wrapped comfort, Clay waking up to find that they had shifted positions during the night. He was lying on top of Justin, held in his embrace, the beating of Justin’s heart just under his cheek. Clay didn’t move for a few minutes; savoring their proximity, straining his ears to try and pick up on any sounds from outside the coach house, becoming subtly aware of the pleasurable press of Justin’s morning hardness against his own, dual layers of cotton trunks separating them. He smiled to himself and closed his eyes, drifting off into another light sleep.A cheerful knocking on the locked door of the couch house roused him a second time, Justin waking too, and Clay shouted hoarsely that they’d be out in a few minutes. His Mom acknowledged him and said that they were waiting in the living room to open the presents under the tree, but for him and Justin to exchange stockings first. Clay huffed to himself until he heard the footsteps fade away and then he looked up at Justin. “Morning.”“Hey.” Justin grunted, his hair messed up from sleep, his expression vulnerable after the unexpected wake-up call. “Glad you locked the door last night.”“Could have been worse.” Clay smirked and pulled himself up until his face was level with Justin’s own. His placed one hand on the mattress to balance himself as his other hand was drawn sensually along Justin’s lap and up over the edge of his waistband. Clay let his fingers slip under Justin’s t-shirt and felt his pulse quicken as his touch caused Justin to moan softly and clench his ab muscles. He moved closer to Justin and kissed him once, whispering, “We could have been doing this…” A second round of knocking-this time from Clay’s Dad- twenty minutes later got them out of bed and stumbling around the studio in a disorganized daze. Clay finally managed to find his shirt from the night before while Justin sat on the edge of his bed, dressed only in sweatpants, holding his bright red and patterned green stocking in his lap, staring down at it. The fabric was bulging with various different shapes and there was colorfully wrapped paper sticking out the top of the stocking. Clay glanced over at him, his breath catching as he took in Justin’s handsome form. He blinked and shook his head, gesturing towards the door. “I think they’ll both come next time if we don’t get a move on.”“Yeah, I just…I’ve never…” Justin choked, his lips pressing tight together as tears welled up in his eyes. “I’ve never thought someone would…You did all this for me?” He held up the stocking and looked at Clay, his lips parted in that crushingly vulnerable way of his.“Of course.” Clay replied, quickly sitting down next to Justin, one arm automatically wrapping around him while the other slipped into Justin’s own, clasping his fingers. “I wanted you to know how much you mean to me, and it’s just some small stuff, Justin, it’s not expensive or anything.”“It’s the thought that counts.” Justin managed before he burst into tears and buried his face in Clay’s shoulder. Clay held him tighter, turning into him so that both his arms were circling around him protectively as the emotional torrent tore through Justin. He could feel his t-shirt getting damp, but Clay didn’t care, lowering his head so his lips touched against Justin’s neck, his hands moving in slow, soothing motions against his back.“It’s ok, it’s gonna be ok. I’m here for you.” Clay whispered as Justin’s sobs began to fade away and his tight grip on Clay’s shoulder began to loosen. “I’m never gonna leave you.”“Sorry.” Justin muttered, keeping his head bowed and his eyes squeezed shut. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to-”“You don’t have to apologize, c’mon, let’s get cleaned up and go inside, ok?”“Mmh.” Justin let Clay lead him into the small bathroom off to the side of the communal area and he started running the water. Clay was still behind him as Justin washed his face, resting his chin on Justin’s shoulder, Clay’s hands clasped loosely around his waist, a secure anchor among the storm of emotion. Justin shut off the tap and looked at their reflection, steel returning to his gaze. “Ok, I’m ready.” Clay’s parents, aunt, and uncle were waiting for them when they came in, patently sitting on the couches surrounding the Christmas Tree. Skychild looked at Justin, her expression uncomfortably piercing, and he leaned more towards Clay than he normally would have done in public, but then she smiled and patted the empty space on the couch next to her. Justin sat down as Clay hugged his parents and then perched on the arm of the couch beside Justin. Pleasant chatter was exchanged over steaming cups of coffee and fresh pastries as the adults related their separate celebrations of the night before; Justin stayed quiet and listened politely, feeling Clay’s leg pressing reassuringly against his arm. The gift exchange was uncomfortable for Justin, if only because he was unused to people actually caring enough to get him something in return. Well, other than his friends, of course, but that was different. Clay’s family actually felt like family, like what a family should feel like; they fought and had disagreements, sometimes powerful ones, but at the end of it all, they stayed together and even with high emotions, the only things that got hurt were feelings. Clay’s Dad seemed happy with the book Justin got him, and Clay’s Mom looked at him with a beaming smile when he explained that he had made the journal he gifted her in school with Jessica’s help. It had been difficult to decide what to get Clay, how to express his gratitude for being more than just…friends. Clay didn’t wear jewelry, he wore monotone grays and browns, he didn’t play sports, he was perfectly lean and toned, but he didn’t work out, he was kind of techy, but not enough that Justin could buy him something, he didn’t have a sweet tooth, and getting Clay a voucher for the coffee place Justin worked in seemed pretty weak. “It’s a robot.” Clay muttered, glancing at him, a smile playing about his lips.“A transformer; it goes from a pretty generic robot into a pretty badass hero.” Justin explained, looking only at Clay, feeling his cheeks heat and his stomach twisting uneasily.“Cool, thanks, Justin, I love it.” Clay grinned and leaned down from the arm of the couch to give him an awkward, one armed hug. “I know the perfect place to put this. I’m just glad he’s going to have a companion.”“Huh?”“You better open yours next.” Clay grinned wider at him. “After all, that’s what we have most in common, right? We both love robots, especially ones that can transform and, uh, slot together perfectly.”“Something like that.” Justin whispered, abruptly aware that Clay's aunt was smirking at him again.
      Chapter 7
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Christmas dinner was almost a mirror of Thanksgiving, although somehow with more food. Clay and Justin had spent the afternoon sitting on the couch next to each other, chatting with Clay’s Dad and Frank, telling stories, remembering the past, Frank talking about his life before he had found redemption in a pottery shop in the middle of small town America. Meanwhile, Lainie and Skychild were in the kitchen, cooking and baking and preparing, snapping short refusals any time he and Clay offered to help out. Justin wasn’t entirely sure what Clay’s uncle had been doing before he became a potter, although it must have been something disturbing as Frank got a far away look in his eyes and the grip on his coffee cup went white-knuckled. He was somewhat relieved when dinner was finally called, and Justin took his seat next to Clay without thinking. Skychild had given him a meaningful look, but Clay pointed to the seat on his other side and she moved away after a longer than comfortable moment.Any lingering awkwardness was forgotten as Lainie reluctantly allowed Skychild to say grace, interrupting her a few seconds into the blessing to remind her sister-in-law that she was not the commune right now and there would be no nude dancing in the garden after dinner. Clay caught Justin’s eye and they sniggered into their sodas. Dinner passed in a heavy indulgence of courses until finally the cheese board was produced and they staggered over to the couch to recover. Any risk of a nap or food-induced doze was averted when Frank pulled out his Christmas present and persuaded everyone to join him in a game of Trivial Pursuit. Clay and Justin played together as a team while Frank and Matt faced off against Lainie and Skychild.The questions were difficult, well, some of them. Justin did well on Sports and Leisure, while Clay excelled at History and Geography, and after about thirty minutes of playing, they had collected enough cheeses to fill their wheel and start trying to return to the middle of the board. Justin had never played any board games before, but Clay was surprisingly good at it, and despite various furious challenges and loud disputes over the questions and answers on the cards, an atmosphere of enjoyable competition pervaded the air. They were ultimately defeated some forty minutes later after a stunning run by Skychild and Lainie who collected their remaining three cheeses and stormed to victory after rolling the dice successfully turn after turn.  Justin smirked at Clay as he yawned and stretched his arms above his head. “That was a lot of fun.”“Yeah, we used to play board games every weekend when I was a kid, but I guess I’ve lost the knack.” Clay yawned again and looked over at his parents. “Uh, we’re gonna head out to the coach house, maybe watch a film over there. We’ll leave you guys to talk or whatever old people do!”“Clay!” Justin elbowed him playfully as Matt rolled his eyes and Lainie just shooed them away. “C’mon, you’re the one who’s yawning like he’s worn out.”“Don’t forget to hang the dreamcatcher over your bed,” Skychild reminded them from where she was sitting cross-legged on the floor. “Oh, and Clay and Justin, in case you’re asleep when Frank and I leave tomorrow morning, I wanted to invite you both to our commune in the spring or summer break. Your positive energies and melding auras will just be a joy to every-”“They might have plans before heading off to college, Sky.” Lainie interrupted as Justin stood up quickly. “We’ll let you know.” He replied, offering her a grateful smile. “Thanks though.”“Mmh, yeah, thanks. Let’s go, Justin.” Clay grunted and stood up, leaning into Justin’s supporting hand on his back as they walked towards the back door just off the kitchen. “I’ll wait and say goodbye to my aunt and uncle, you go out and put on the TV.”“Ok, anything in particular you in the mood for?”“Something with space.”“I’ll find something then.” Justin smiled and gestured at the fridge. “Could do with some snacks though.”“Seriously? After all that food? And the cheese?!” Clay stared at him as Justin shrugged. “Fine, fine.”“I’m still growing!”“I know one part of you that’s growing.”“Haha.” Justin chuckled to himself as he stepped into the back garden, walking slowly across the grass. He stopped and twirled around, tilting his head back so he could look up at the sky overhead. The light pollution wasn’t so bad that he couldn’t make out one or two pinpricks of genuine stars as well as the moving lights of planes or the too-bright twinkle of satellites in low orbit around the Earth. If he compared his life now to where it was a year ago, to where it had been heading, he might as well have been on a different planet. There was only one person he could credit that change to; one person who had dragged him out of despair and back to life, one person who seemed to want him just for him, one person who had made it so abundantly clear that he’d have Justin’s back no matter what. That kind of…devotion was more alien to Justin that any holiday tradition, especially when it came with no strings, no limitations, just…love.“What are you thinking about?” Clay’s voice behind him made Justin turn around and smile.“Nothing, everything, you.”“Hmm, that seems a lot to be thinking about.” His arms were full of chip bags and sodas. “Will you give me a hand?”“I’ll give you both.” Justin took one of the bags and cradled several soda cans in-between his arm and his body, using his free hand to take Clay’s in his own. He smiled at the surprised expression on his face and tugged Clay towards the coach house. “C’mon.”“What if-”“I don’t care who sees us or what they think, I only care about you.” Justin smiled again as Clay blinked and then shrugged.“Ok.”
        Notes:
          That’s all for now, more to come in future updates, especially when the fourth season comes out in a while. Thanks for reading!
      Chapter 8
        Notes:
          A short Valentine's Day update! This popped into my head today and I felt like writing it.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Clay closed the lid of the laptop guiltily when he heard the key in the door of the coach house and looked up in time to see Justin come in. The other guy had one earphone in, the other hanging by the cord, his dark jacket half open, and his school bag slung over one shoulder. “Hey!”
“Hey.” Justin paused when he spotted Clay and nodded cautiously. “What’s wrong?”
“Nothing.”
“Uh huh.” He walked over to the counter and placed his keys and phone on the surface, placing his bag softly on the ground. “What are you working on?”
“Nothing.” Clay repeated, too quickly from Justin’s arched brow. “Uh.”
“Hmm, fine, keep your secrets.” Justin smirked at him and crouched down next to his bag. “You know what day it is today, right?”
“Yeah, Valentines, pink confetti everywhere and lovesick idiots disrupting every damn class.”
“I did notice how much of a grump you were at school.” Justin laughed softly as Clay glared at the back of his head. “No feelings of love in the air?”
“Not at school. Here is different.”
“Yeah, it is.”
Clay took the opportunity of Justin facing away from him to crack open the lid of his laptop and try and get to the mute key before the video he was watching could resume playing. He tapped it successfully, but as relief surged through him, Clay realized he could smell Justin’s aftershave right in front of him. “Oh.” He looked up at the guy as Justin tilted his head to see the screen.
“You were watching porn, weren’t you?” Justin grinned at him, his hands clasped behind his back. “Guys or…?”
“I was doing research.” Clay muttered defensively. “For a story.”
“Uh huh.” His soon-to-be brother’s grin got even larger and Justin’s eyes sparkled deviously. “You gonna tell me?”
“It’s just…I wanted…it’s only…” Clay sighed and pulled the screen open fully, turning to show Justin. “Happy now?”
“Hmm,” He hummed to himself and reached out with one hand to tap the spacebar, resuming the playback. “Ok, so, it’s a flexing video? The guy’s hot: I didn’t know you liked them that smooth and muscular though.”
“Mmh.” Clay pressed his lips together and shrugged as crimson raced up his neck. “He, uh, jerks off later. And he is, err, very Greek statuesque, but, uh, I like you more.” Justin grinned again and Clay placed the laptop on his bed behind him. “It really is just research, Justin.”
“It’s cool, I like learning more about this side of you, you don’t talk about what you enjoy in bed; discovery is fun, but now I have a better idea.”
“It was one video.”
“Uh huh, well, I hope, um, I got you something.” Justin winced awkwardly and held out a small wrapped box with a snazzy bow that sat in the palm of his hand. “If I had known you wanted a gun show, I would have trimmed down and covered myself in oil!”
“What?!” Clay’s eyes snapped up to Justin’s smirk. “I…I’m seriously beginning to regret showing you that.”
“Uh huh, you’ll have to tell me about the story later. All the details.” Justin shrugged out of his jacket and sat down on his own bed, watching as Clay turned the box over in his hands. “Just open it already! And be careful; the side with the bow is the top.”
“Hmm.” He undid the bow and pulled the ribbon off before sitting next to Justin. The lid was pushed off easily and Clay smiled as he looked at the individually wrapped truffles dusted in different coatings. “Aww, thanks!”
“I saw them on my way home from the coffee shop, I could have gotten a dozen roses too but-”
“My allergies thank you for not doing that.”
“Exactly.” Justin smiled as Clay leaned into him, their heads turning until Justin moved forward and pressed his lips gently against Clay’s. “Mmh.”
“So, what’s on them?” Clay muttered when they broke apart with a breathy intensity. “Coco dust for sure, but this one?”
“Peppermint, she said, and the other one is expresso.” Justin pointed them out as Clay smiled happily. “It’s just something small.”
“It’s perfect.” Clay sniffed when the emotion unexpectedly rolled over him. He smiled as Justin hugged him close. “Just sorry I didn’t get you anything, I wouldn’t have thought you’d care about celebrating this holiday.”
“Not normally.” Justin stood up and slowly peeled his shirt off, smirking as he noticed Clay’s attention shift from the truffles to his torso. Once he had the garment in his hands, Justin tossed it away and let his hands drift down his stomach to his belt. “But then again, if you’re doing research for a story, maybe a sexy story, maybe this is the perfect time to get romantic!”
“Mmh, live inspiration is so much better…” Clay managed as his own hand slid towards the cords that tied up his sweat pants. “Alright, show me what you got lover boy!”
        Notes:
          As I said, this is a short update for today’s holiday, I’ll probably do another one for Easter, maybe even sneak in a St. Patrick’s Day update in about a month. Thank you for continuing to enjoy this story! I hope you’re having/had/will have a wonderful Valentine’s Day!
      Chapter 9
        Notes:
          This is the start of a three chapter Easter update, hope you enjoy it!
    Chapter Text
    The weeks seemed to glide on by, becoming months with startling ease, and just when it seemed Christmas was a recent memory and Valentine’s Day was mere days before, Easter arrived with clear skies, warm weather, and the bursting of nature all around them. The Jensens didn’t have much of a garden other than a neatly trimmed front lawn and a leafy, treelined back garden with some flower beds around the curve of the path that led to the coach house. But Justin could feel the change in the air, hear the birds twittering loudly in the early morning, see the blossoming of green buds along the otherwise bare arms of the trees. As he lay in bed, the ever earlier beams of sunlight crept over his duvet and along his naked skin until it bathed his face in warmth. Usually the sun never got that far as Clay would have rolled over with mumbled protests and Justin would get up to close the blinds fully.
The weekends were their best times; so easy to distance themselves from everyone with excuses of homework and due assignments and time spent with Clay’s parents. Even if all they ever seemed to do was lounge around, enjoying each other’s company, enjoying being together. It was an open secret at school, though, at least that’s what Justin thought, Clay still didn’t want to bring attention to it, to their “special” relationship. And Justin wasn’t going to pressure him into doing it, not when they were so close to graduating. 
He glanced down at Clay as the other guy shifted against him, his cheek lying on Justin’s chest, his hand somewhere below Justin’s midriff, the precision lost in the comfortable heat that kept them together. But Clay was waking up, moving around more erratically than the usual peacefulness of his slumber. Justin raised his hands and folded them behind his back, keeping out of the way in case Clay was in an active dream. Those sequences Clay said seemed so real, they often made him roll over and kick his legs out or wrap his arms tightly around Justin’s torso, sometimes with an accompanying thrust of his hips to grind more against his body. The first time it happened was disturbing, but by now he was used to Clay’s bedtime quirks.
“Hey,” Justin whispered softly as Clay’s eyes blinked open and he grunted softly. “Good dream?”
“Hmm, confusing.” Clay rolled over so he was lying on his back, his head resting against Justin’s bicep. “Detailed, like all the others, fast-paced…erotic.”
“Oh really?”
“Chocolates and hot guys, I don’t know what that means.”
“Well, clearly, I’m the hot guy!” Justin smirked as Clay tilted his head back to roll his eyes at him. “And chocolate…well, I mean, it is Easter, so that makes sense!”
“Hmm, I guess so.” Clay murmured, his hand reaching down to adjust himself. “I really have to pee.”
“Err, ok?”
“But I also really don’t want to move, this is the best part of the day.” Clay had closed his eyes again, a lazy smile pulling at his lips when Justin crossed an arm across his chest, hugging him loosely. 
“So, any Easter plans or traditions I should know about?” Justin asked, letting his fingers move in slow circular motions against Clay’s skin. “Your parents went to church at Christmas, are they doing the same this holiday?”
“Err, no, they only go at Christmas because my Mom likes the singing.” Clay shrugged, rolling onto his front and climbing half on top of Justin with a smile. “They did tell me last night that they’re going upstate to see some friends later this morning and they’ll be back on Monday.”
“Why are you only telling me this now?”
“Mmmh, I forgot.” He smirked again. “You came home late from football practice, remember? And Justin Foley in nothing but mud, sweat, and a jockstrap is too much for my mind to handle, I must have pushed out all the unimportant things!”
“Hah,” Justin barked a laugh and then nodded. “Ok, so they’re gone for two nights, that’s pretty sweet.”
“Uh huh. I promised no house parties though.”
“Yeah, uh, I don’t like house parties…” Justin muttered as stomach lurched uncomfortably, memories of his failure that night at the party with Jessica flashing through his mind. “Uh, that just means more time for us to be together, right?”
“Exactly.” 
“So, do you have Easter traditions?” He asked again, moving away from the other topic quickly.
“Mmh, well, there was this one I used to do every year when I was a kid; it’d feel kinda pathetic if I did it by myself now, but with you here…well, it fits right in with our favorite pastime.”
“Huh? But you were-”
“I meant our other favorite pastime!” Clay interrupted him hotly as Justin sniggered and let his hands run down Clay’s back towards his cotton clad ass. “Netflix and chilling…and snacking.”
“Ok, let’s hear it.” Justin nodded encouraging. “I love your traditions, they’re so wholesome!”
“Err, right.” He shifted position again, this time moving closer to Justin’s face, his bare skin flush against Justin’s chest and thigh. “So, um, my Dad actually introduced me to this crazy old English film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang! and it’s always had a special place in my heart ever since. We’d watch it at Easter and just pig out on chocolate as we did so.”
“Haha, I like that tradition, so simple!”
“Thanks, usually, my Mom makes some chocolate themed snacks and treats, but with her heading out of town…I guess we’ll have to make do with Easter Eggs this year.”
“Are the ingredients still there?” Justin asked as a plan clicked together in his mind. Clay nodded silently. “Ok, so, how about we bake for ourselves?”
“You’re terrible in the kitchen.”
“I can help.” Justin replied frostily until Clay laughed and he chuckled along. “Well, why not?”
“Yeah, I mean, ok, it shouldn’t be too hard to follow the instructions,” He nodded and then gestured behind him. “And with the kitchenette here, we can make a mess and not have to worry about it.”
“Oh, I plan on making a mess in here in just a few minutes!” Justin grinned and hugged Clay tighter, rolling over so he was on top of him. “Do you still want to talk about choc-”
“Just get your pants off!” Clay interrupted him breathlessly, his stomach clenching excitedly from the gleam in Justin’s eyes. “We can discuss desert later!”
      Chapter 10
        Notes:
          I changed the rating to Mature as the innuendo gets real this chapter!
    Chapter Text
    After seeing his parents off, Clay and Justin gathered the ingredients for their chocolate themed feast from the kitchen in the main house and brought everything over to the coach house. Well…Justin carried as Clay supervised and ensured they had what was needed. By the time they had returned to the kitchenette, Justin was flushed, his sweater cast to one side, Clay’s gaze skipping lazily over his bare arms and up to his handsome face, memories of the night before dragging themselves up in a slideshow of lustful images.
“Uh, can you…” He pointed at the counter and then at the packets of graham crackers. “Take them out and crush them into small pieces, I’ll melt the chocolate and get the marshmallows.”
“Is this for rocky road?” Justin glanced at him. “I thought they had nuts?”
“My Dad is allergic, so my Mom always uses graham crackers, she says it gives the same texture.” Clay explained, pulling out a glass bowl with one hand as he set the hob on high with the other. He smiled at Justin’s concerned expression. “Don’t worry, I can multitask.”
“Yeah, I know; your hands are very good at doing two things at once.” He smirked and shook his head as Clay barked a laugh. “But, um, it’s not like we’re on deadline or anything, you can slow down.”
“Mmh, yeah, but I figured if we get everything going early, that just leaves all afternoon for…our other pastime.”
“Oh? Oh, well, you’ve convinced me!”
“Ah, and I didn’t even have to try.”
“You never do.” Justin replied softly, holding Clay’s gaze long enough to make his insides tremble. “Um, so I just crush them?”
“Yeah, that’s right.” Clay nodded, his cheeks flushed as heat purred through his body. He turned back to the pan, watching the butter melt before adding the chocolate a little at a time. “How’s it coming?”
“Fine.” Justin answered in between grunts. “How big do the pieces have to be?”
“Uh, anywhere from dust to, err, thumbnail size.” Clay glanced over his shoulder, watching as Justin tipped the crushed biscuit chunks into a bowl. “Yeah, that looks good.”
“Ok, what next?”
“Toss the marshmallows in and leave them next to the baking tray, I just have to wait for the chocolate to melt fully.”
“Hmm, let me see.” 
Justin peeked over his shoulder, his proximity making Clay’s heartbeat creep higher. He could feel Justin’s warm breath on the back of his neck, the familiar scent of aftershave and sweat and deodorant that came together in such a perfect mix of smells that it made him giddy just being in the air around him. Clay leaned back slightly, a smile tugging at his lips when he felt Justin’s arms wrap slowly around his waist, his hands clasped loosely above the strings of Clay’s sweatpants. “Careful, I have molten chocolate here.”
“Mmh.” Justin grunted again. “I can see that…there looks to be a lot of calories in this snack alone.”
“Ah, yeah, probably, but we’ll work it off. I’m sure you can think of a way to do that.”
“Oh yeah, especially since we don’t have to worry about keeping the noise down anymore!” Justin winked at him as he moved back to the other end of the counter, letting Clay turn off the heat and take the pot off the hob. “It has to cool?”
“Uh huh, then we add the graham crackers and marshmallows, leave it to set and done!” Clay nodded. “The multi-layer chocolate Easter Egg nest is after that.”
“Ambitious much?”
“I gotta give you the genuine experience, don’t I?” Clay shrugged. “Plus, I want to over-indulge; you said you wanted to go on a cut after this holiday, get all lean and ripped for summer, right?”
“Are you saying I’m not muscular and defined enough for you now?” Justin arched a brow at him and tilted his head in a way that made Clay’s ass muscles clench reflexively. He pulled up the front of his t-shirt and continued on. “Because, I thought you liked my abs?”
“Hmm, I don’t know, maybe they’ve lost a little definition.” Clay smirked and folded his arms nonchalantly. “How about you flex and clench, show me I’m wrong?”
“How about now?” Justin asked as he twisted his torso back and to one side, before releasing the pose and letting his ab muscles bunch and tighten.
“Mmh, I can’t really see…you better take your shirt off.”
“Yeah, that’s a fair point.” Justin smirked and pulled his t-shirt slowly over his head, tossing it onto the bed behind him. When he looked up, Clay had got closer, his eyes filled with lust, his sweats bulging appreciatively. Justin continued to flex and moved equally nearer until they were inches apart. “How about now?”
“Mmh,” Clay moaned between closed lips, feeling Justin’s words against his skin, an almost magnetic attraction pulling their bodies closer. “We really should get the ingredients in before the chocolate…hardens.”
“I’m such a distraction, huh?” Justin whispered, but he left Clay to complete his task with unsteady fingers. “Let me help you.”
“Oh!” Clay started when Justin stood close behind him, pressing his crotch into Clay’s ass and hooking his fingers into the hem at the front of his pants. “You’re really eager today.”
“Can I lick the spoon?” Justin asked as Clay rolled his head to one side to look at him. The devilish twinkle in his eyes was too much to refuse and a wooden spoon half coated in chocolate came towards Justin’s mouth. “Oh, so what do you want me to do?”
“Lick it.”
“With long licks?”
“Yeah, lick it!” Clay moaned as Justin’s tongue licked a long strip across the top. “Mmh, put it all in your mouth!”
“Oh yeah!” Justin groaned, his lips wrapped around the girth of the spoon. “Ohh, it’s so big!”
“You like that?”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah?” 
“Yeah!” Justin grabbed his hand and stopped Clay from pushing the spoon in and out of his mouth. “But now I think it’s time I grasped the thick handle!”
“You are the worst.” Clay groaned with a rueful shake of his head, before he closed his eyes. There was a sudden rush of cool air against his thighs and navel and then the sensation of Justin kneeling down in front of him. “Oh, you’d don’t have to…oh! Oooh!”
“Well, I think we lost about an hour’s baking time.” Clay said, leaning against the doorframe of the bathroom as Justin gargled mouthwash. “And that minty fresh breath of yours doesn’t exactly go well with chocolate.”
“I think I’m done tasting, I did just have-”
“Yeah, I know.”
“You still think it’s gross?” Justin asked as he straightened up, dabbing his mouth and neck with a towel. “You get used to the taste.”
“It just weirds me out.” Clay shuddered. “I don’t mind you doing it, I just don’t want to swallow.”
“That’s cool.” Justin came back over to him and kissed his lips gently. “Just like I’m happy to watch you bake, but I don’t really want to get involved in the actual measuring and weighing.”
“Cool.” Clay put a hand on Justin’s chest when he made to move back into the main room. “I’m gonna have to ask you to put your shirt back on though, bro, you’re just too damn distracting otherwise.”
“You got it, bro.” Justin echoed back to him, his voice soft as a smirk flickered around his lips. “Whatever you need.”
      Chapter 11
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Easter Sunday arrived with a long lie-in and a slow, sultry shower that Clay and Justin enjoyed together in the main house’s bathroom, making full use of the jets and advanced settings from the bathtub nearby. Once dressed and sated, they had breakfast on the patio at the rear of the house, Justin sipping coffee and looking at the birds as they flitted and flew across the lawn to peck at the nuts in the birdfeeders hanging from the sturdy branches of an ash tree. Clay was busy on his phone, bending the truth just enough so they wouldn’t be disturbed by their friends.It always felt like an unnecessary complication, just another lie to get entangled in when there were already so many different ones playing out. But Justin didn’t want to force the issue, he didn’t want to make Clay feel uncomfortable about discussing it again. And with the pleasant morning so far, Justin was looking forward to spending the entire day with Clay all to himself. Happiness surged through the center of his chest as he smiled over at Clay. “Is it too early to start on Easter Eggs?”“You just ate two chocolate croissants!” Clay stared at him as Justin licked his lips seductively. “I mean, if you get an upset stomach later, don’t blame me.”“But you’ll be there to look after me, right?”“I’m always prepared for anything,” Clay said with a long suffering sigh, the effect undermined by the smirk he directed at Justin’s careful expression. “Yeah, I’ll always take care of you.”“You did before, I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for you.” His expression changed, seriousness pulling at his eyes, his mouth tilted in less of a cute pucker and more morose. “Clay, I…”“I know, you don’t have to say it, I love you too.” Clay replied softly, holding Justin’s gaze long enough to force his mind’s eye away from those memories that still haunted him. He stood up abruptly and nodded towards the coach house. “Let’s get set up, huh? There’s plenty of movies we can watch today other than the traditional one.”“Did you already put the lamb in?”“Uh huh, while you were at the bakery; everything is ready, we can just chill today.” Clay extended his hand, smiling genuinely when Justin took it and the pair walked across the lawn towards their private sanctum. The afternoon passed in a slow, delicious tableau of gorging and overindulgence, Clay and Justin sprawled out on their couch, resting in-between moments of renewed feasting. It was hot in the coach house, but they didn’t put on the aircon, using the extra warmth as an excuse to strip down to just underwear, Justin in his well-fitted trunks, Clay a little more self-conscious in his boxers. He still wasn’t expecting any visitors, but the door was locked just in case, the blinds pulled shut, only the glare from the tv giving any light.In the chocolate scented haze, they came closer together, the final traces of modesty cast aside so they could lie naked against each other. Justin was behind him, arms wrapped loosely around Clay’s chest, one leg raised and pulled under Justin’s to hook them tighter together. He smiled when he heard the gurgle from Justin’s stomach and the stifled pained groan from behind him. “I told you you’d get a stomach ache.”“Urgh, it was worth it…” Justin muttered and shifted against him. “That chocolate nest cake was too heavy, with the whipped cream and broken Easter egg on top of it, ughhh.”“You had three slices, I warned you-”“Mmmh, I’ll feel better soon, right?”“Let me get you some peppermint.” Clay began to get up, but Justin pulled him back down. “What?”“No, don’t go, I’ll suffer through,” Justin pressed his lips together and arched one brow as Clay shook his head. "I need you here, bro."“Don’t pull the hurt puppy look on me.”“It always works though.” Justin smirked as Clay sighed. “Right?!”“Emotional manipulation.” Clay grunted as he sat on the edge of the couch, Justin still hugging him, resting his cheek on Clay’s shoulder. “But you’re right...I hate that these have been the best six months of your life.”“What?” Justin sat up and moved beside him, confusion replacing his content expression. “What does that mean?”“We haven’t done anything: we stay home, and we hang out, mostly normal stuff.” Clay swallowed thickly. “Uh, like I hate that you never felt safe before now, I hate that your Mom was-is-such a…I hate that you spent all that time on the streets, in juvie, so much lost time. I just wish I had talked to you sooner, I wish I had gone after you sooner, not been so damn afraid.”“It’s ok, I’m here now and so are you.” Justin threw his arm around Clay’s shoulders and hugged him tighter. “You’re my shining light, Clay, you’re my brother, you’re the one I love than anyone else, ever. And, yeah, the past sucked, but I don’t live there anymore, not when I’m with you. When I’m with you, everything is…perfect. There’s no effort, there’s no judgement, I know you have my back and I hope you know that I’ll do anything for you, you don’t even have to ask.”“Thanks.” Clay replied, leaning closer to him. “Sorry I got so emotional.”“It’s cool, and hey, my stomach feels better!”“Another slice then?” Clay stood up as Justin smirked.“You know me too well!”
        Notes:
          That’s it for now, folks, I’m not sure when I’ll update this next, but I’m thinking of letting the boys go on a little road trip over the summer! Get them out of the coach house and onto the beach! Thanks for reading!
  Notes:
  I've never written for this fandom before, but this story has been rattling around in my mind for the past two weeks since I binged the entirety of Thirteen Reasons Why in one go! I'm thinking there'll be three chapters with the possibility of smut in the last one. I'm not sure yet, I just really liked the idea of them comforting each other, and honestly, we all need some fluff from time to time! Thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (88)
  Comments
          Angel2912, Brownie86, vitaminelf, EmilyisSOgay, New_level_of_Death, Help_I_ship_everything, mxrthe, chewing_pink_bubblegum, candicegemini, braelinnotherern, Hydrakinz, SuperJawnAvenger, pannymoomins, Larryiskife, The1eldritchapple, Multi_fandom7, TheNightCircus, PurplePoppies, rodas97, JustWestofNowhere, sarka_jencikova, ohnofrances, Indulger, KagayaSenpai, Book_lover_1506, V_cameos, toxicwastepond, AussieGirll1988, MissInsignificance, NerdyWizard64, Midhel, LunaTulli97, BonsajB, lionc, MaxLoserDuxx, Takeme_faraway, Shaunalaw, Isabella1324, Loser_baby09, Shadowoftenshi, magda_dl, eattoast, Niamh_9804, Windofstrategy, Art_L, luvsthemall, Faengwen, WildRabbit97, Rune_Akeru, Babybird1821, 
               and 99 more users
            lana1696, juanjoingles, OrangeColoredSky, trix5842, Tanukichan, eathechildren, Safana, MyownFairytale, wxizzer, Annatheweirdo, literallyjer, Haunted_bungalow, spring_and_summer, Yall_its_me_nicole, Lucds, Vhopejikooktrash, picassos, Randi_Kat, bluemoon1204, Robzzz, Xante_lewis, gaysontodds, Hxrcrvx, Faeriemaid, LoveOnTheBrain, TrulyIncredimazable, choviez, Mariessa, Thomymsosa, Otaku1231, Tigercat20, manapiro, Heatherb27, TheZodiacNerd, codeman6100, Rasmuda, SarahHunter152, StrangledAvatar, glowmist12, foxanddeer, dmw327, xRisiesx, maokan, guess_im_a_lesbian, DATALIENPHSYCO, Hexe94, LeonXAether, Beautiful_Benevolence, Jaykill_101, Elapse, Imechii, LunaxVersnoyen, annahale14, Fedoraz1, Frvrmnchxld, Amadea, Whenahitashu, SuzzyGallagher, Shadow_Belle2017, Janneke, soulcomposer, lynnnieee, FaneLothaireBloodpaw, SaCnoodles, AnimePanda, Cassanfrq, lunarylight, AprilWolf, Lolamiou7, fairenouf, lvamelia, Engel0895, UguuBeef, c_kriss, LylaMackenzie, BellaStark, cutiemarkie, bnjjad, Laura99b, PlumeNoire5, NfunnierS, HELLBENTAUTHOR, AsterKosmos, thiamlover815, TheFoxyFox123, TBGkaru, alivefornaomy, Sanella1987, aga2250, 0_0Uta12, nonaaa14, TVTime, astrospace, ksz13, idontknow11, DebbyMorningstar, themermaidwriter, Creamyblues and eliott_le_raton_laveur
             as well as 
          171 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
                    Fusedtwilight
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 13
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:35PM EDT 
        Not going to lie, Clay and Justin are a ship of mine and I really enjoyed you capturing a more tender and sweet side to them. If it does go to sex that will be great but I just love how you wrote them like this.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:15PM EDT 
        Oh, thank you! I just recently watched the show, but I've always liked the actor who plays Clay, so I was hooked when I realized he played the lead. Throughout much of season two and certainly three, it felt as though Clay and Justin were getting closer and closer, so after I finished watching, I just really felt their connection. Plus the show is so dark and real and full of drama, I didn't want to do a story like that, they need some fluff!I'm not sure if there will be smut in this story, I can see doing that in the future as a one-shot, but I'm actually thinking I'll keep this one with the cute and fluffy vibe it has. There might be inferred smut in the final chapter, but I'm not committing to anything.Thanks for reading and commenting!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    idontknow11
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:58AM EDT 
        So excited to see where this goes
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:16PM EDT 
        Thanks, glad you liked it! I'll update again shortly.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    astrospace
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 02:13PM EDT 
        very good beginning for the Story , lets see when they will become boyfriends .Can hardly wait for the next chapters .
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:16PM EDT 
        Thanks! Glad you enjoyed it! More to come in the future!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    JR22
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:49PM EDT 
        You're alive! I've been emailing you for the longest, Uthizaar. This is Jatori and I completed my trilogy, I wanted you to read my final story, so could you help a brother out and shoot me an Email, so we can chat?  Jravenell21@gmail.com
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:13PM EDT 
        Err, yes, I haven't checked that email account for a while now. I'm glad you've completed your story, I hope everything worked out for you. I'm currently very busy with work so I don't have a lot of free time. I reckon closer to Christmas I'll have some free time so if you drop me a message then I'll read your final story.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    JR22
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:40PM EDT 
        Two weeks before Christmas, I'll send it to you. Great to see you're doing well. I can't wait to talk to you about what I've been writing over the past six months.I've been doing wonderful, and I look forward hearing from you.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 08:46PM EDT 
        Aaahhh! This story was such a delight to read! I haven't seen the show, so my opinions are based purely on your presentation of the characters and they were certainly super adorable and cute! I quite like the way you described the cuddling too, the way it happened and became a routine thing, and Clay's headspace in general. LOL, I also got a kick out of this bit:
  "...you’d think a show about the Navy would have a lot of eye candy. There’s barely any.”
  “Well, most of the Armed Services are men so…” Clay trailed off as he felt Justin chuckle. “What?”
Sounds like Justin's bisexual and being a bit obvious, but Clay just really isn't picking it up! Looking forward to seeing where you take this!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 14
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:22PM EDT 
        Haha, thanks, glad you enjoyed despite having no context! I tried to avoid spoilers in it since the characters themselves know their histories and interactions and fans of the show already know what's up. I'm curious if you googled them though; they are both super cute and hot :P Thanks, yeah, I've been thinking about the story-and the snuggling scene-a lot lately so that part was well imagined. The rest just sorta happened without any planning so I'm glad it fell into place so well. It's not activity I do a lot, but it is something I've kinda missed the past few weeks and these characters felt like they both needed a good snuggle, lol, preferably with each other!Yeah, that was a not so subtle way for Justin to put himself out there, but Clay can be surprisingly dense about these things and get caught up in his own head. There's definitely canon support for Justin being bisexual (even if his previous encounters with guys weren't the best experiences) and same for Clay too, even if he's much more towards the center of the scale. But I figured that he didn't want to have that mental conversation while Justin is hugging him. I'm thinking that it'll be a relatively short story, something that I can go back to whenever I need the fluff, lol. Smut will probably happen in a different story-I have one in mind already. But I think with the narrative style of this one, I can allude to them getting intimate without having to spell it out.Oh, and they're pretty much the same age, only a few months between them, so even though Clay mentions that they'll be "adopted brothers" soon, there's no blood relationship between them or age difference. It's a...quirk of the show's plot.But thanks for checking this out, I'm behind on everything else I have to write, but I'm glad you took the time to read and comment :D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Fusedtwilight
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 20
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 11:29PM EDT 
        Another sweet and cuddly chapter. I'm loving it.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 21
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 05:19PM EDT 
        Thanks! I enjoyed writing it too :D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Creamyblues
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 21
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 06:31AM EDT 
        This is sooo cute. Can't get enough of it. Absolutely need more
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 21
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 05:20PM EDT 
        Aww, thanks, glad you're enjoying it as much as I am writing it! More to come next week and possibly after that...
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BellaStark
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 23
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 06:13AM EDT 
        That was so sweet! I really loved it. Can't wait forbtge next chapter 😘
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Thu 24
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 08:55PM EDT 
        Thanks! Glad you liked it!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BellaStark
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 27
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:12AM EDT 
        :)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    astrospace
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 23
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 07:52PM EDT 
        another  great chapter , perfect movie choice  , for their cudlling , can hardly wait for the next chapters .
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Thu 24
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 08:56PM EDT 
        Thank you, pretty cute huh?!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 27
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 12:30AM EDT 
        This chapter was so adorable and sweet! Hmm, this part of course was a bit intriguing and I'm sure something related to the plot of the show I'm unfamiliar with:
  “I can’t get warm,” Justin shivered and rubbed his hands together. “Probably a side-effect of…you know.”
  “Yeah, yeah, I know.” Clay replied softly as Justin avoided his eyes. 
But anyway, whatever is the reason behind why Justin can't get warm, certainly made for a great premise for their cuddling. Wow, and eleven-hour movie binge! Haha, that's some hardcore movie watching right there. Although of course they ended up falling asleep and not making it all the way through, but just the thought of an eleven-hour movie marathon gives me anxiety!Anyway, I hope you've had a better week and I'm excited to see what you have in store for us in the final installment of this series!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 27
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 01:02AM EDT 
        Ah, hey, good to hear from you! Glad you liked the chapter, I'm trying to keep them short and simple, and yet still have that cosy comfort level.Yeah, that's a reference to a character specific plot point that both of them know about, and anyone who has watched season 2 and 3 would know. But it's also a major spoiler and I didn't want that. However...it also helped them off the couch and into the bed :PI've never done all three LOTR movies (extended) all in one go, although I can see myself binging on it once since the trilogy is so damn good. Unfortunately I've noticed that I start falling asleep while watching TV or films now, something I wasn't doing even a year ago, ugh! At least Clay and Justin had some comfortable arms to rest in ;)Err, the less said about this week the better...I have a training exercise to oversee and lead next week, but it's local so I'll still be on post. That's good both for me and my writing! Final chapter for this tomorrow, but I wouldn't be put out to maybe update it in the future; I feel like they're a really good match for fluff and cuddles! TMW is about 40% done on its next chapter, want to hit my monthly target on that, and Eternity is getting a smutty (spoiler free) spin off that, all things going well, should be out in time for someone's nuptials...In any case, I hope you're enjoying your weekend and are looking forward to next week; it being Samhain and all!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 27
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 02:17AM EDT 
        That's a really great idea about keeping the chapters short and simple and infused with that cozy, comfort vibe! Actually reading this series has made me really want to get back into one of my fluff series.That's awesome that you were able to get the best of both worlds in a sense -- the character/plot reference without the spoilers, AND a solid excuse for them to cuddle up in bed!Ohh, sorry to hear you've been getting the TV/movie sleepies! My boyfriend is like that too. He'll just fall asleep right in the middle of something. LOL, makes it tough for the shows we try to watch together since even though I'm super not trying to "cheat" and watch ahead...I still end up ahead just by virtue of staying awake :POh boy! You got me a smutty, spoiler-free Eternity spin off as a wedding present?! Dawww, you shouldn't have! Haha, but I'm certainly glad you did! (LOL, I know it's not really for me, but that's certainly an awesome treat to look forward to! :D)Darn, I was hoping this past week had been a more pleasant one for you. Hopefully things ease up soon. I think I just followed the news a lot less this past week, but it didn't seem like there were quite as many distressing headlines. At least your training exercise next week is local and won't interfere with your writing schedule! Good luck with it and have a great rest of the weekend!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 27
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 09:30PM EDT 
        Thanks, it's what I've been trying to do with Eternity in the current arc, although for different reasons. But I like being able to do short chapter and feeling like I've achieved something since I rarely get the chance to do long writing sessions like I used to. I thought I'd get the next chapter for this done today, but I spent it on TMW so good and bad. At least I have a solid idea of how to start that chapter. I was thinking too that I'd "complete" this story with the third chapter, but may update it in the future as the need or desire for fluff came up. I think too that smut for "Clustin" will have to go in a separate story. Oooh, I wonder which fluff series that is? If I had to guess I'd say it was the Scott/Isaac one that takes place in Scott's bedroom, right? Or is that complete? lol, sorry XDIt's also pretty helpful too though; there a Youtuber I can watch/listen to and in about five minutes I'm asleep, lol. So, good for those days when you need to sleep, haha. I can see how that would be awkward though when you're watching a series or something. At least I can just rewatch it over again, even if that sometimes means watching it a few times, lol.Yeah...not really a wholesome wedding gift is it, lol?! Ah, the fates aligned on this one. I was thinking about something wedding themed actually, but I couldn't remember which two characters you liked the most, plus I'm not really a good wedding writing; lots of my characters have been having relationship problems or breakups lately, so not a good thing to get into the mood for that type of fic. But the recent Eternity chapters will enable the smutt-off to work. Like all before, it's an alternative to an existing chapter, but not story compliant. In any case, it'll be spoiler free so you can read it whenever it takes your fancy. Assuming that it'll be well after next week since you have to consummate that marriage to make it legit ;PFollowing the news is always dangerous to your health! But anyway, I hope you're charged up for the week and what's to come!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    astrospace
              on Chapter 3
            Wed 30
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 08:46PM EDT 
        very good  new chapter , they have kissed , perfect ,now lets see them becoming boyfriends , can hardly wait for the next chapters .
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Thu 31
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 10:00PM EDT 
        Thanks, glad you enjoyed it.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    idontknow11
              on Chapter 3
            Thu 31
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 02:24AM EDT 
        oh god, you did it. this is an amazing story and i love it so much, i was very happy when i saw that you updated!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Thu 31
                                                 Oct 2019
                                                 10:00PM EDT 
        Thanks, glad you're enjoying the story so much!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BellaStark
              on Chapter 3
            Tue 05
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 05:16AM EST 
        I love this story, it's so beautifully written. I really hope you'll continue writing for that fandom and especially for that ship. Thank you for that story! Xoxo Bella
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Thu 07
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 10:00AM EST 
        Thank you, I'm glad you enjoyed it so much. I like doing stories from time to time where the plot is lightweight and there isn't much dialogue. So I'm happy that there was enough emotion coming through from the descriptions.I definitely do want to write more for Clay and Justin, there's a lot of potential in this ship. Thanks for checking this story out!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BellaStark
              on Chapter 3
            Sun 05
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:32AM EST 
        First i want to apologize that it took me so long to answer. Life and work can be so busy sometimes. I really enjoyed your story. And I love all the fluff and tenderness. I hope to read another story of yours soon A lot of emotions in that story. I could feel their love for each other. Xoxo Bella.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Sun 05
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 03:08PM EST 
        No problem, I appreciate that you took the time to answer at all! It's been a very busy opening to the new year for sure.I'll update more in the future, whenever season 4 comes out or if an idea that suits this story comes to me. I write a lot of different types (action, drama, horror mostly) of stories for my other fandoms, so it's nice to concentrate on fluff and sweetness for these two characters, especially with how stressful their outside lives are.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BellaStark
              on Chapter 3
            Mon 06
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:29PM EST 
        😊 I'll always try to answer in time, and I feel it's very rude not to answer. Yeah hopefully season 4Comes out soon. Very excited for it already. Definitely will check out your other story's. Not a big fan of horror, but I'll have a look. I like some smut sometimes and if it's darker that's ok too. But fluffy happy endings are my favorites 😇
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Mon 06
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 01:39PM EST 
        Thanks, I appreciate that!I write mostly in the Teen Wolf fandom, but I have expanded recently.Hmm, you might enjoy An Eternity in Your Eyes. It's not finished yet, but it has some nice fluffy moments. The Madness Within is definitely not fluffy and I'd probably avoid that one if you're looking for comfort, although it is among my favorite stories. The Happy Hunt is kinda fluffy, kinda smutty, although I should warn you for twincest as that might not be your cup of tea. The Silence of the Snow is a nice fluffy story and has a happy ending eventually. The seven parts of The Cycle of Theodric take place across a year and follow the various Teen Wolf characters pulled back in time to the era of actual druids and darachs, gods and myths. There's some smut (a lot actually), some action, drama, magic, some fluff. I would consider it to have a happy ending, but it might be a little bittersweat.Oh, the Places We’ll Go, and the People We’ll Kill! is a fun one tbh! Theo's Perfect Moment is a very short fluff piece you might enjoy. I would generally say to avoid the Building a Better Chimera parts just because you said you don't like horror and that story leans into the grim and the bloody throughout. It's my longest story and the one I'm most proud of, but it can be a difficult read if you have a fondness for certain Teen Wolf characters...New Pack Rising is pretty fluffy, especially with Corey and a protective Theo.The series Silence and Memories is very much in the same style as Bro Hugs so you might want to check that out first. Finally, The Catalyst from the Arrow and Flash tv universe is also pretty fluffy and nice. 
    Hope that brief guide helps you if you decide to read something else I've written :D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 3
            Mon 18
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 09:37PM EST 
        I just realized I somehow missed the notification for the final chapter! What a lovely final chapter it was too. I like how it seemed to usher in a new period for Clay and Justin with them taking off their shirts and cuddling with erections. Looks like it's only a matter of time now until they cross that remaining line. At the same time though, I like how things remained innocent and tender between them. It was definitely the right tone for them in this story -- hot as some smut would have been!The final kiss at the end was just perfect! This story put me in the mood to work on my Scisaac fluff piece, Bedmates, but I think you handled the premise of "two bros cuddling in bed" much better and much more realistically than I managed. The pacing and gradual escalation here are amazing! I can't wait to see what you write in this ship next if you decide to do another project with them!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Wed 20
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 04:19PM EST 
        Aw, thanks for checking this last chapter out; I figured the notification probably got lost in the mountain of work you're doing :PYeah, I think that's fair, and I did want to leave them in that sort of promising situation where it's clear there's a mutual attraction. So, there's a lot of potential in future chapters or a sequel or something. I think it's hard to get that balance right between sensual and innocent, but it sounds like this one works! Thanks! Clay's character was kinda easy to inhabit and Justin makes some canon comments that seem to indicate he's not 100% straight so that's always easier. Plus their onscreen chemistry in the second and third seasons is already brilliant so it's just a matter of sliding it into a different setting.Probably be the new year before I get to anything new since I'm falling behind on a lot of other stories and potential stories. I'm really tempted to focus a lot on Carpe Diemright now since I've started watching the new season this week. Glad I did too since there's a lot going on there and a lot of potential for my own story to fit into the drama!I am absolutely shattered however, and it's only Wednesday...so, I'll leave any decisions until the weekend! Hope your week is going smoothly!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 3
            Mon 25
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 10:29PM EST 
        Yep, that's exactly what happened! It's crunch time at work as I try to somehow cram five days work into three days so I can finish a big project before the holidays. It's not going to be pretty, lol. I'm going to bed in a bit though and planning to wake up early so I can get in a couple extra hours in the morning since we have to do our holiday grocery shopping tomorrow after work and I won't have the opportunity to work late live I've been doing. Oh man, you struck that balance perfectly! For such a relatively short story it really packed the feels and had some steamy images and sensuality. Ahh, really makes me want to watch the show all the more now to see Clay and Justin's chemistry play out on the screen!Oooh! You started the new season of All American?! That's awesome! Aaah! I'm loving it so much. It's definitely my favorite show right now. I just hang on every single scene and wind up watching most of them twice before I'm ready to move on, lol. They've really done a great job making all the characters complex and likable. How far along are you? LOL, do you see what I mean about Asher this season? He's totally awesome and lovable! And oh man, I can't wait to see what you do with his and Jordan's dynamic in Carpe Diem. LOL, because let's be real, Jordan is kinda the worst right now, but at the same time he's still a character you root for. I'm eager to see how closely you stick to canon, especially with regard to the latest plotline they revealed. I won't give any spoilers, but it's certainly a game changer!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 3
            Wed 27
                                                 Nov 2019
                                                 03:09PM EST 
        I hope your crunch is going well and you're near the finish line! It sounds like you've had a very busy week, but I bet that makes the prospect of the holiday seem even better than usual :PThanks, I've been thinking about how to keep the story going and I think it'll probably just be more of the same. I really like how little dialogue there is in the scenes and it feels a lot more intimate that way, or maybe it just feels like that to me, lol. I'd like to do some smut with them eventually, but then I already have a lot of smut to get through on my other stories so I'll just throw that on the pile! I've actually been putting off updating Wolves because the next chapter is Jackson's first threesome with him, Oscar, and a guy they met at a club called...Justin. Haha, no prizes for guessing where that inspiration came from! I'll get to it at some point, although I think I'm going funnel all my smut productivity into the twincest Christmas fic. I'm going to use my own experience earlier this year at that Spanish wedding to essentially set them up, and then the story from there will be Aiden realizing that he does actually want to mess around with Ethan alone. So, there'll be be a "standard" suck, rim, fuck sequence, then I think I'll indulge a fetish of my own-oil and muscles- the twins are jacked so it works! And I'll probably end it with a kinky blowjob and fingering as Ethan or Aiden (haven't decided yet) are driving back. I'm gonna start working on that next week, it'll need time to marinate in its erotic juices ;PYeah, I'm at episode 3, haven't had much time the past week due to work and travelling, but I am enjoying the season a lot so far. Jordan is such a douchebag manwhore right now and I can't even believe it. I follow most of them on IG so I think I know about the plotline you're talking about, something to do with a girl and inadequate protection, right? I don't know if it's legit or not yet so that's some drama to look forward to! Asher is dope as fuck though, I love his drive right now and him stepping up for his team. I'm not remotely surprised that he's longing after Olivia and I could see that pairing coming from leagues away. He's gotten a lot fitter and cut too compared to last year and I really like how seriously Cody takes training for the show. And then JJ...mmh! There's another guy who's improved his body a lot over last season, and there really wasn't that much to improve. I kinda disappointed that he's become Jordan's wingman and enabler for all the crazy stuff that happens in the opening three, but then I've always felt JJ was very much a follower rather than a leader, interested in the parties, the drinking, the girls. But I do love his antics and his style actually. And you're right, every one of the characters is very well written and fleshed out and the story is super tight!Well, Carpe Diem is currently at a very low point for Asher; he's got an alcohol problem, he's been kicked out by his father, his mother doesn't want him, he's been staying in his car and is generally feeling pretty worthless. Jordan on the other hand went into total denial and ultra-straight bro-dude mode after the Homecoming reveal, so I think you'd be more disappointed at this version than even the canon one where he just blocks Asher out. The one bright spot for Ash is his boy JJ though. They're a lot tighter and closer in this story than in canon, and that will kinda be the direction they'll stay in until the end of season 1. There'll be a bridge between the seasons during Winter Break that will set up a much altered season 2. I'm interested in seeing where they go with Jordan though, because it's very easy to brush off his bad parts and remember the good in him. I especially loved that scene in episode 3 when he finds Asher on the field using the jugs machine and he takes over. And suddenly it's like they're best friends all over again. So, I'm keeping my options open for what might happen between them.It's likely that I'll keep that canon plotline of "Jordan knocked a girl up" (If that is the reveal) because that ties in with his behavior right now of trying desperately to appear straight and sex-obsessed. I'm actually toying around with the idea of going Asher/JJ at least for a little but. I'm not sure if readers have picked up on it but there's some pretty clear foreshadowing for JJ being bisexual and having a crush on Asher. Right now he's in that "super best friend who brings food and lets you sleep on his spare bed" zone, so I'm not sure how readers would react to a shift in that dynamic.But anyway, here I am rattling on about ideas that probably won't reach fruitation before summer 2020! I'm going to grab an early dinner and come back for the other two threads.
      Comment Actions
    Cancel
    Thread
        Parent Thread
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
          Cancel
                    Elapse
              on Chapter 4
            Thu 26
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 03:52PM EST 
        Woah! This is awesome! Whole story is so cozy and sensual. Can’t wait for another chapters or even companion piece :)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 4
            Thu 26
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 08:22PM EST 
        Thanks! Glad you've enjoyed it so much! I really want that cozy and safe vibe to come through for both of them.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    astrospace
              on Chapter 4
            Fri 27
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 02:12AM EST 
        very good  new chapter , so clay has an aunt  how is a Druid  , very interesting  ,she must have magical powers , she could Protect them , can hardly wait for the next  chapters .
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 4
            Fri 27
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 08:05AM EST 
        Thank you. Well, she follows druidic traditions, that doesn't mean she has any powers, just that she's very New Age and believes in nature and humans' connection to the Earth.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Jpvolz
              on Chapter 4
            Fri 27
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 09:44AM EST 
        Love the story so far and your absolutely right i love when they comfort each other and would love to see a companion piece but i always love clustin stories so i may be a bit biased. Either way keep up the good work
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 4
            Fri 27
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 01:14PM EST 
        Thank you, glad you're enjoying it so much. They really have the perfect relationship for this type of comforting behavior and that sort of relationship evolution. Haha, yeah, it'll be later in January before I get around to any sort of companion piece, but I think they'd be a lot of fun to imagine :P
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 4
            Sun 29
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 07:09PM EST 
        As I recall you said today would be the last day of your vacation and that you were heading back to base -- or I suppose by the time I write this already on your/back -- so I hope you had a delightful rest of your vacation and don't find it too difficult to get back into the swing of things! Will you also have a day or so off for New Year's? If it were me, I'd definitely appreciate being able to 'ease back in' after a long vacation by coming back on a short week. Anyway, I was so happy to see these two new chapters of Bro Hugs and they were the perfect in-bed reading to do on my lazy Sunday! 
  And things had become serious between them, not serious in some macabre reflection of their outside lives, but an importance to each other that translated into a deep, abiding fondness that just seeped through the air between them. 
Wow! That sounds intense and awesome for them. I really like how this story, as I recall you discussing the premise, was largely inspired by not only Justin and Clay's chemistry together, but also as a way to counterbalance all the dark and heavy things happening around them as a result of the show's plot with a more positive, private space where they could heal and be happy. And that deep, abiding fondness permeating the air around them certainly sounds like the perfect restorative foundation for them....But now they have the challenge of reconciling their public and private lives and struggling not to out themselves at school. Aww, and it's sweet how meaningful this Christmas is to Justin. I don't know their backstories of course, but it sounds like Justin must not have grown up in an environment that celebrated Christmas/the holidays, and doesn't really have those traditions and experiences of his own to draw from. If I understand things correctly, their parents are engaged and that's why they're living together and soon to be step-brothers? Is it's Clay's mom and Justin's dad or the other way around? Anyway, I'm a bit curious how Justin's parents reacted to all this too, if it was also outside their life experience and what they felt realizing how affected Justin was. Daww, their little mini-Christmas tree in the coach house sounds adorable! Ooh, and things really heated up after that Christmas decorating! Haha, nothing like decking the halls and trimming the tree to get the passion pumping I suppose!An electric spark of fire ignited between them, passion and desire that culminated in a locked door, closed blinds, and messed-up bed sheets, their clothes tossed on the floor.Sounds like quite a night! :DAww, and the post-sex cuddling was really adorable and sweet too. I love that Clay is determined that Justin will remember this as the best Christmas of all!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 4
            Sun 29
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 08:15PM EST 
        I'm not back long, but I am back in SC now. I wanted to have this evening to get myself back into the swing of things and I'm glad I did; can feel myself getting sick. Damn recycled air in planes :( Vacation was great but am looking forward to getting back to work and catching up with everything. I'll be working all this week, no break for New Years, but that's ok, I've never really been one for celebrating it.Happy to get your comments for sure, but I think I must have given you the wrong impression of the family setup, I guess I didn't want to drop any major spoilers. So, Justin lives with Clay and Clay's parents, Matt and Lainie (they're married). Matt is a college professor iirc and Lainie is a lawyer. During season 1 we see that Justin comes from a troubled family background; his Mom is either an alcoholic or drug abuser (it's unclear which) and has the worst taste in men. No mention of Justin's father. At the end of the season, Justin becomes homeless and is sleeping rough in Oakland CA (their town is outside the city). In season 2 for reasons I won't spoil, Clay goes and finds Justin and brings him back, letting him live in secret in his room until eventually it's not a secret anymore. A lot of other things happen, but the bottom line is that Justin is being adopted by Clay's parents and that's how they'll become brothers. Hopefully that cleared things up and will probably change your perspective on things!Anyway, with that clarified... Yeah, for sure, they need this comfort and support with each other, and it's great to have someone there in the evenings and the mornings, but Clay wants to take the leap beyond their safe space. Neither of them have come out either, so that does make it difficult, but at least they're honest with each other.So, yeah, with Justin's Mom being such a mess, he definitely doesn't have good memories of Christmas and what those sorts of family traditions are like.Haha, I actually have a mini Christmas tree that I put on my desk every year; it folds away and comes fully decked out so it's super handy!I'm thinking that I'm going to keep this story smut free, maybe some casual eroticism from shirtless torso and suggestive bulges, and then sometime next year do a companion piece for it that has some smutty adventures. Perhaps each time it's inferred in the main story-like this chapter-I'll have a smut sequence in the companion piece.Haha, well, the cuddling between Justin and Clay is what we're here for tbh!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 4
            Tue 31
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 11:33PM EST 
        I know you said you weren't much for celebrating, but I wanted to wish you a Happy New Year! Especially since as everyone is fond of pointing out, it's a whole new decade too. Anyway, I hope you were able to stave off that illness you felt coming on a few days ago. I hear that recycled air on planes is indeed horrible for spreading sickness. Wow! I sure did have the wrong handle on things with Justin's situation! That all makes so much more sense now! Plus, that's just generally a much better plotline and more interesting situation. Haha, and that's adorable and funny that Clay just tried to hide Justin in his room! 
  Anyway, with that clarified... Yeah, for sure, they need this comfort and support with each other, and it's great to have someone there in the evenings and the mornings, but Clay wants to take the leap beyond their safe space. Neither of them have come out either, so that does make it difficult, but at least they're honest with each other.
That does make a big difference, and I'm glad to hear that! I wasn't sure exactly how they had defined things, or if indeed they had at all. I could see them having been honest about the situation and their feelings, or just not discussing what was going on or what they were to each other at all. Ohh, that mini Christmas tree does sound super handy and fun! What a great way to add some quick, convenient festive ambiance! We haven't had a tree of any kind in years. We have a reusable one that got pushed to the back of the garage when we moved, and we just never feel like digging it out! That idea for a smutty companion series for this one sounds awesome! I really like that concept of adding an installment each time something is inferred here in the main story. I think you're right though that smut wouldn't really fit the tone of this piece though. 
  Haha, well, the cuddling between Justin and Clay is what we're here for tbh!
Haha, so true! They're super cute together, even without having the show as a frame of reference. Anyway have a great New Year/Decade!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 4
            Wed 01
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 10:39AM EST 
        Thanks for the New Years' wishes, Happy New Year to you too! I hope you had a good one and rang in the new decade well. Yeah, all my soldiers were talking about it being the "roaring 20s" again until I banned the term in the operations room, lol. I don't really want a return to prohibition or another economic crash! That and ain't no one wants to feel old XDYeah, no such luck there, I've been sick the past three days, but the doctor put me on heavy duty meds so it's not as bad as it probably would be otherwise. I can't taste anything and have a nasty cough, but Sunday night I had a bad fever and elevated heart rate, so it was kinda scary. I haven't experienced that sort of flu, err, pretty much ever. Anyway, yes, planes recycle their air and winter is always terrible for sick people flying. At least it was a domestic flight so less time flying and less foreign illness (hopefully) present. I've been able to work this week though and we're very busy given what's happening in Iraq right now. Haha, yeah, it was kinda funny to read your assumptions, lol. But at the same time, I'm curious if I did a bad job explaining their situation for readers who haven't seen the show. I'm actually really surprised by the feedback on this story in terms of hits and kudos. Kinda like Carpe Diem I guess, that's been doing surprisingly well. Small pond syndrome, I guess. Yeah, there was actually a pretty funny scene where Justin went to have a shower and Clay's Dad was about to enter the bathroom and Clay managed to forestall him, saying he was about to shower, resulting in Clay having to stand in the bathroom while Justin is showering. Honestly surprised there's not more smut based on that whole sequence :PI think they're still in thre realm of "no labels" but Justin is probably a bit more honest about himself; I think he slots into the bisexual but favors men more position, while Clay is more like 90% gay, 10% "I thought I loved Hannah". So, you might notice I never call them boyfriends because they haven't taken that step themselves yet; they're still friends or brothers. But they have that easy honesty that comes from not holding back with each other and having total trust in the other, even he's the only person the other can trust.What...no tree? That is actually kinda super sad. I guess if you don't spend Christmas at home, but still, what do you put your presents under? The cabin I was at came fully decked out, it was actually pretty damn sweet; a real tree and everything! Usually I'd try and have a real tree "at home" wherever home is that year, lol. It feels closer to the pagan roots of the holiday :P
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    astrospace
              on Chapter 5
            Sat 28
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 06:00AM EST 
        very good new chapter , Clay Aunt is good  and eccentric , and good Druid , but i suspect that she has magical powers since   since immemorial times  The  first Druids ,had amazing magical powers ,  according to Legend , Merlin  lived  almost  at the same time and he was born of Magic ,  had amazing magical powers  . the First  Supreme arch Mage , according to legend , in witch i believe. Can hardly wait for the next chapters .
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 5
            Sun 29
                                                 Dec 2019
                                                 07:32PM EST 
        This was such a great chapter! I think the switch to Justin's POV and writing it more as real-time scenes versus a narrative were really good calls for this chapter, and especially for the introduction of Clay's aunt and uncle.Aww, Justin was cute being all nervous like that about meeting more of Clay's family. Ah, and so I see that it's Justin's father and Clay's mom. Hmmm, I wonder if Justin's father had met Skychild and Frank before. LOL, seems like his fiancee should have gone with him to pick them up! It sounds like she had some last minute preparing to do though.Clay reassuring Justin and generally being a good boyfriend was great, and I like how he convinced him that he was an important part of the family and just a visitor. It reminds me of how I felt the first year at my husband's family's big Christmas Eve family party. All the aunts, uncles, and cousins was certainly a bit overwhelming and I felt a bit like an out-of-place visitor. LOL, I love how Clay warned Justin to brace himself for the introductions but wouldn't actually tell him their names or exactly what to expect! Sounds like Clay wanted to have a bit of fun seeing Justin's reaction.Oh man, and Frank and Skychild Fairtree were such a hoot! I love how Frank's there in his casual Christmas sweater while Skychild is wearing a full-length silver gown! Her telling Justin what his name meant was delightful too. 
  “She writes those baby name entries for websites, you know, if you don’t know what to call your kid.” Clay explained as Justin took his hand back, whispering to him, “She’s never forgiven my Mom and Dad for naming me Clay!”
Actually, I kinda would have expected "Clay" to go over quite well with Skychild! Both because the meaning must be along the lines of something that can be shaped and moulded to create something, which is nice from a meaning standpoint I think, and also since it seems very much in line with her New Age philosophy and life outlook! LOL, if anything I could see her naming her own son Clay! Ooh, and isn't Frank a potter who uses clay to shape things? Oh man! Clay would have been the perfect name for their son! 
  “You have a very strong energy about you, Justin.” Skychild said, moving towards him, causing Justin to back nervously into Clay. “Both of you do; that shared space you occupy has strengthened your auras considerably.”
Ahh, looks like it didn't take Skychild long to suss them out at all!I got such a kick out of Skychild's account of how their travels had gone! LOL, especially the part with the melodic re-enactment of whale mating songs somehow failing to calm a crying baby on the plane! I'm just picturing the looks the other passengers must have been giving them! Not just having to put up with the original crying baby but now the whale song too! Haha, although really, some calming lavender can hardly be the worst thing that ever disrupted a TSA security line.Ah yep, Skychild has Clay and Justin figured out for sure! I like how the respective couples decided to go off and do their own thing together at the end of the night. 
  Clay grinned lazily at him as he went to tie the end of their stockings to his bed. “You’re always perfect.”
Daww, Clay is being quite the charmer! Mmm, yeah, and Justin better share some of that masculine energy so Clay can recharge his aura! Really though, I like how Skychild's assessment of them healing each other's spirits does line up so nicely with that overall concept of them helping each other through the challenges their facing. And another really beautiful and sweet moment to end this chapter on -- right before things heated up again no doubt!As I recall you said there was one more chapter coming as part of this little holiday arc for them, is that right? Certainly looking forward to it! Especially seeing how they decide to ring in the New Year together.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 5
            Wed 01
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 10:57AM EST 
        Thanks, glad the timing and the shift in POV worked well. I've kinda gone for a mix of the two in the next chapter, but I am concentrating more on Justin in this seasonal update in general. I think Clay is very much the reassuring one in the relationship and Justin is more publicly confident for them. So, that's an interesting dynamic for them to have and to explore. As a result of Clay being so protective of him, I think that comes through from the rest of the family too and Justin feels safe and secure with the Jensens without any sense of being a burden or owing them, which is a new feeling for him. I know that outsider feeling for sure, haha, I remember the first time I met all of Kyle's extended family and it was a lot, like forty people with spouses and children taken together, all knowing each other, all having these years long grudges and stuff, it was insane!I think if your aunt was called Skychild Fairtree you totally use that to have fun with your friends! I was actually debating if I wanted Frank to be Stoneraven Talonclaw, a name Sky Father gave him in a yurt in '89, but I thought it might be pleasantly jarring for him to just be Frank.Haha, good points, could be that aunt Skychild was pissed that her boring regular relatives got to name their kid something so whimsical and meaningful. She probably wanted the name for her own kid!Nothing quite like some strangely dressed woman waving her arms and crying out like a whale in heat, lol.Haha, I think it's pretty safe to say that Clay has fallen in love with Justin! Poor Justin just isn't quite sure why.Uh, two chapters actually. The next one went up about an hour ago; Christmas morning, and then the next one will be tomorrow. That'll be Christmas Day night (if that makes sense).Thanks for reading and commenting on this chapter! I hope the first day of the new year is starting well for you :D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    xRisiesx
              on Chapter 6
            Wed 01
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 04:27PM EST 
        I love this fic so much, I think it's my favourite Clustin fic out there😊 These recent chapters about the aunt made me laugh so much haha
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 6
            Thu 02
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 11:11AM EST 
        Thank you! That's phrase indeed since this is my first Clustin fic :D There'll be more chapters in the future after I finish this Christmas/Winter update. Glad you're enjoying it so much!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
