      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               明日方舟 | Arknights (Video Game)
              Relationship:
               Executor/Flamebringer (Arknights)
              Characters:
               Flamebringer (Arknights)Executor (Arknights)Vermeil (Arknights)Magallan (Arknights)
              Additional Tags:
               FluffRandom &amp; Shortwe need more fluff yallSleepy CuddlesI love them fourtbh they're like familyNot Beta Read
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-10Words:3378Chapters:1/1Hits:0
      a polaroid, a penguin blanket and an angel
      KuyaReCom
          Summary:
              There are three things Flamebringer don't expect for him to be a part of or have some sort of connection to:1) A polaroid picture (At least the quality is good, he doesn't know much about photography)2) Magallan's precious penguin blanket (The one which she brings with every time they have a movie night. Which is often)3) Executor's furnace/body heater/hug pillow (He's still trying to figure this one out)Or; to simplify things, Executor thinks that Flamebringer is a great person (demon) to crash into. And oh, if you ask him, he'll tell you that Flamebringer's so warm.
  Notes:
    (See the end of the work for notes.)
        Work Text:
          Flamebringer labels himself as a very observant person, managing to notice minor details anyone will usually miss. It's a skill he developed from his mercenary days, and even more at the beginning of his combat years. Seriously, a single misstep will lead to a minefield blowing up in his face, or that's a gentler way to explain W's explosive expertise in trying to scramble his limbs to pieces. This leads to a beneficial life when he joined Rhodes Island, he doesn't use his ability often since he can count the amount of people he interacts on a daily basis with his two hands, but who says he's not an all-rounder? He's a jack of trades, thanks once again to W's troublesome habits.He doesn't jump in shock if Phantom suddenly appeared behind him, he knows how Ceobe will try to steal some candy out of his jar (she's the only one daring enough to steal from him) - but he also sees and records small flits such as how Gummy doesn't do things continuously for three times or Rosa's action of picking up a paper cutter from a desk before putting it back down. Flamebringer doesn't have an innocent reason as to why, he is just simply bored.He's just bored when he created a mental file in his head entitled A Study of Executor because he never met someone like him before. Someone so stoic and robotic, that's what others say, but oh no, Flamebringer's stuck with him since day one. Vermeil keeps giving him sharp glares and Executor doesn't even blink as he introduces himself, like, how conspicuous is that? Terribly.Flamebringer thinks that Executor has the function of a robot, sometimes. Executor works efficiently, he colour-codes his files, chases after his clients if he needs to, writes boring ass documents that Flamebringer can't understand with his leftover sanity - most importantly, he shoots through a thick piece of armour like it's a piece of plain, rice paper. So whenever the Sankta does something not robotic, Flamebringer assumes that he's just malfunctioning.However, there's one major flaw that he can't overlook - he sees it in every hard-working Operator, which is; being a workaholic. It's normal, unless you've learned the art (and drugs) to stay awake for 3 days straight. The Medics in Rhodes Island are a bunch of lunatics, but he can't blame them for waking up at 3 am to respond to an emergency drill.But Executor?He totally underestimated the level Executor could reach. It starts normally and subtly, just a normal day in the base.Flamebringer is checking the clipboard he's given by the doctor, translating the jumble of foreign Southern words which he can understand perfectly. He leans on the wall of a corridor, twirling a pen between his fingers.He hears a pair of footsteps stopping at his left and looks up to see Executor standing beside him. He's holding his usual briefcase and is wearing his outdoor attire, so Flamebringer guesses that he just finished doing his errand. Executor watches his hand playing with his pen, and Flamebringer being accustomed to the way the man has a habit of analysing things, continues doing his work with silence. He knows how busy Executor always is, which irks his curiosity when the man doesn't move after a surprising amount of 3 minutes. Of course, Flamebringer ignores this because he wants to. But Operators that pass them keep giving Executor concerned looks before turning into horror as they see who he's standing next to. After Beagle squeaks when Flamebringer glares at her, he decides that trying to find out why is Executor not moving at all is more fun than translating the word topography. He turns around and sees Executor with his eyes closed, thick eyelashes fanning his cheek and breaths even. Flamebringer blinks, then he says loudly."Oi, are you sleeping?"Instantly, those pale eyelashes flutter open, revealing hazy aquamarine irises that sharpen as Flamebringer jumps back in shock.It's Executor's turn to blink, he answers defiantly. "No."Flamebringer looks down at him, unimpressed, "You're bad at lying, you know that?"Executor keeps his neutral face that can make strip poker runs for its money as he repeats, "I was not sleeping."He amuses, "U-huh. If you say so." before returning back to the clipboard. Executor shuffles beside him and finally walks away, though Flamebringer can see a hint of drowsiness in the way he moves. Flamebringer's the one who approaches him this time. He's been circling the base trying to find any sign of Executor, but there's no sign of him, even Vermeil answered that she hadn't seen him at all. His office is his last resort as Flamebringer crosses the bridge to enter the Special Ops block.He doesn't bother to knock as he twists open the doorknob, "Coming in~"If there's one place that reflects Executor's personality, it's his office. Flamberinger has breached a lot of offices but nothing looks as sterile as Executor's, the marble floor makes squeaky noises and his paperwork is neatly stacked on his desk, rivalling even the steepest of Kjerag mountains. There's nothing hanging on the walls except for an electronic clock and an arms inventory, where ammunitions dangle down threateningly. Only two chairs sit in the wide berth, giving an interrogating vibe. Flamebringer has long accepted that Executor doesn't have an interior design bone in his skilled body, the man is an interesting (plus rare to find) minimal décor type. The only normalcy in the room is the potted plant on his desk, bursting the usually desolate room with red gardenias. Flamebringer squints his eyes at the dark, adapting them in a few seconds. He sees the room clearly as he walks inside, leaving the door open to let some light in. He goes around the desk, avoiding the tower of paperwork and rigidly stops.There, with his head buried in his arms on the desk is Executor. Flamebringer takes in the unlikely scene as disbelief poured over him, he squints harder and squeezes his eyes. Yep, still there. Executor is goddamn sleeping. Taking a nap? He doesn't know as he risks to poke his shoulder, Executor doesn't move. He inhales deeply, he grips Executor's shoulder and shakes him, "Wake up, Executor."Flamebringer has never heard Executor's tone shifting from a pitch or an octave low, his voice is already naturally deep and straight forward, fitting his porcelain face. So, he nearly gets a heart attack as Executor mumbles sleepily, "Hngh?"He praises his amount of self-control as he shakes him harder, "Wake up."Executor slowly lifts his head from his arms, he turns around and gives Flamebringer possibly the most adorable face and one that he knows Executor will never let anyone caught him dead with. As a result from being aroused awake, he looks sleepy and unguarded, lips dry and eyes moist. No sign of his aloofness anywhere, just a pure and sleepy Executor, the heck?"Yes - " Executor says huskily as he registers his presence, "What do you need me -" He yawns quietly, covering his mouth with a hand, "Need me for, Operator -" He stops and rubs his eyes, "R137?"Flamebringer doesn't know if he should be combusted with giddiness over how unbelievable this is or the fact that Executor just addressed him using his file number. He decides on a mixture of both."The hell, when was the last time you slept?" He says.Executor stops rubbing his eyes, he pulls out a scrunching face, that's the first time Flamebringer sees him thinking with a facial expression on. He croaks, "4 days ago."Flamebringer can sense a headache coming in, "That's an excuse for you to fall asleep here?"Executor gives him a deadpan look, and Flamebringer knows his awareness is quickly creeping in. "This is my office."He offers a small smirk, to which Executor stares, "I thought that you're a robot, but this just shows that you're human, huh? Anyway, Magallan wants me to tell you that she's taking a short break from her expedition -" You'll think that since he had caught him sleeping, Executor will finally put a stop to his very complicated sleep schedule? However, this is Executor he's talking about, someone who follows logic and apparently sticks to his actions. Which means that this must has been going on forever and there's finally a breakthrough. Which means Executor's not stopping anytime soon. Between them both, Flamebringer's always the impulsive one, but he's been regarded to have sufficient self-control in some matters that don't include fighting. Executor's always in control, thus it's weird to see him losing his grip on a simple matter for normal people such as sleep.Flamebringer breaths heavily as he plops into the jeep, he settles his swords beside him and looks outside as the others enter the vehicle. The aftermath of the bloodbath lays in front of him, a narrow alleyway that Elysium manages to navigate into with their big RI jeep. It's a suitable battlefield for him and Executor to cover, he works best with W, but Executor's a reliable partner when it comes to minimal fighting ranges.He taps the windowsill unrhythmically as Executor sits beside him, making them to occupy the back row. Elysium turns on the ignition and chats mindlessly, they rev through the dingy area, occasionally taking a sharp turn here and there. Elysium switches channels and begins conversing with the other squads, leaving them to their own devices and reflection. The jeep drives through an uneven road, they rocket through bumps and pitholes. Flamebringer exhales deeply, he can have some shut-eye at last -Something heavy settles on his shoulder and Flamebringer nearly jumps in his dingy seat.He looks and confirms with skepticism that Executor has fallen asleep on his shoulder. He looks peaceful, as if he didn't just obliterate their enemies, his hair tickles the sliver of skin Flamebringer doesn't cover with his turtleneck. This close, Flamebringer can smell strong gunpowder and cotton candy wafting from the head of silver, a scent he'll never relate to Executor (except for the gunpowder part, Executor carries the gunpowder smell like cologne).Flamebringer stares at him as Executor dozes off, unaware of his surroundings for once. He continues staring as Executor's mouth parts open slightly, his plump lips grazing his neck with featherlight touch.Someone squeaks. Flamebringer glares at Elysium, the man smiles nervous and proceeds to try forget what he just witnessed. Even if he's friends with murder, he isn't that suicidal to try and challenge Flamebringer's glare that can stand toe-to-toe with death, they both know that much.It continues, and Flamebringer lets the scenario play out.They'll claim the back row, where no one will try to sit at because number one, there's Flamebringer, number two, there's Executor and number three, if you value your life, never try to be their middleman unless you're Vermeil or Magallan. Their designated driver will begin driving, and in less than 5 minutes, Executor will lean and place his head on his shoulder. Then he'll descend down to dreamland. Flamebringer adapts himself to this quickly, the opposite of everyone. Elysium still looks as if he wants to be anywhere but in the car, Magallan just smiles and continues chattering about penguins and Vermeil makes a disgusted face but she has nothing to comment on.After who knows how many times, Executor still finds his shoulder as a better pillow rather than the frumpy headrest or glass window. Flamebringer just sighs whenever this happens, until he decides to break the habit.They've just finished fending off another wave of attack in an underground alleyway, this time with Gavial patching them up. He registers his exhaustion as Executor falls asleep on his shoulder, he blinks sleepily and fights the urge to fall asleep. He can't remember how many minutes did he slept last night, maybe he didn't, Oripathy likes to mess with his sleep schedule.Flamebringer turns a bit to watch Executor's slumber, his cheek digs a bit into the concrete halo and he places it there. He stares hazily at him, noting how soft and angelic Executor appears. His blankness disappears whenever he takes a rest. Not a resting bitch face, but more like a 'I need to shut down and your shoulder is an acceptable substitute for a pillow'.Flamebringer lifts a hand and begins to thread it through the head of white hair, he's amazed a bit at the softness. His fingers part the white strands smoothly, spreading the sweet scent further. He hums in approval and continues to play with Executor's hair, not stopping until they arrived at the base. If Executor finds his hair like a disturbing bird nest when he wakes up, it's his fault for submitting himself to Flamebringer's care in the first place. To Executor's utmost deserved credit, he does perform a countermeasure ever since Doctor stared with petrification at his hellish bird nest for a hairstyle. Flamebringer knows because gossips reach his ears that Executor says to Doctor and a team of traumatised Casters that, "It's what I have to get for a bargain since Operator Flamebringer's shoulder is too comfortable as a headrest for me to pass on."He isn't expecting for Executor to be the one making it official, trust an innocent question to let him yank the cat out of the bag.Flamebringer can't decide if Executor's toying with him or he's just making things easier when he starts to fall asleep in the middle of their movie night too.Whenever Magallan takes a short break from her expedition, she spends her free night with them to watch movies in Flamebringer's room. They do this a lot of time already that both him and Executor know to search for movie clips during their errands, and Vermeil to prep some snacks that only she and Magallan touch. That night, it's Magallan's turn to pick, she sorts through the box where they hold all the clips."Wow! Let's watch this one!" She exclaims cheerfully, showing them a cover about animated penguins.Flamebringer rolls his eyes, he takes his spot on the couch. "Sure. But it better not be another documentary.""Hey! You're the one who recited half the facts about plants after we watched Gardening 666!" Magallan points a finger a him before fiddling with the film projector."Vermeil! Please turn on the switch! Nice! Who found this?" She asks as she straightens her back, she sidesteps the potted plants around her to reach the table where an assortment of food, from popcorn to a packet of candies. You name it, they probably have it, she pops a gummy into her mouth."It's me. I stumbled upon it during a resource search, and I remember that you prefer Northern stories." Executor answers as he appears, holding two mugs and having Vermeil popping behind him in tow."Thanks, Exe!" Magallan smiles while unfolding her thick blanket, a simple yellow cloth with penguins dotting everywhere."You're welcome." He hands one mug at Flamebringer. He mumbles a thanks as he takes the red ceramic mug, gently brushing with the cold fingers of Executor. Sipping the drink, he indulges in the taste of hot cocoa. The movie starts to roll in, Executor sits pressed at his left while Vermeil leans at his right. Magallan turns off the lights, leaving them in dim lighting, she rests beside Vermeil, huddling them underneath her blanket, and the movie starts.The movie isn't bad, the targeted audiences seem to be children and people with majestically high fascination, aka Vermeil and Magallan. When he turns around to look at them, they're both fixed at the scene of the penguin trying to befriend an eagle, eyes mesmerised. He smiles as he lifts his mug to his lips, drinking the now lukewarm chocolate. Flamebringer steals a glance at Executor, who's watching intently as the penguin asks its newly made friend to teach it how to fly. He loses track of the movie as he watches Executor quietly. He often sips his own mug of cocoa, a blue one with horizontal orange stripes matching him. He looks soft in a peach turtleneck sweater belonging to Flamebringer, which is one of the many things his group of friends took from him alongside his reluctance at making friends. Other than that, he's absorbed completely, cold aquamarine orbs intense.Executor directs his gaze at him, and Flamebringer feels something burning his veins as those cold aquamarine orbs gaze intensely at him. He breaks the connection between them when he hears Magallan sobbing. It turns out that the penguin's friend had died, and Vermeil's now sniffling quietly as Magallan dabs her eyes using the corner the blanket. Flamebringer's pretty sure a key point for the plot won't die at the first 15 minutes so he guesses he had lost track of time.He forces himself to watch the movie, it's not hard to catch up with whatever's going on as the plot's easy to understand. He senses Executor staring at him, but he ignores him. Eventually, Executor stops and also watches the part where the penguin's desire to fly gets even stronger.It's probably halfway through the movie when Flamebringer feels the couch dipping a bit, he checks to see what's wrong just to be greeted with Executor curling up at him. Instinctively, he goes rigid, and alarms start to blare off inside his head as he takes in the sight. Then he catches the telltale sound of Executor breathing deeply, and he thinks, ah, he's sleeping.Flamebringer gently pulls out the mug from Executor's clenched fists, settling it and his own on the table. He sees that both Magallan and Vermeil are still deep in with the movie, so he puts an arm hesitantly around Executor, pulling him closer. He tucks in the blanket cautiously, and as if responding to his deed, Executor plants his head on his chest, flushing them together. Flamebringer can feel the tips of his ears reddening, but he doesn't move, grimly trying not to let Executor steer awake.Executor's always been cold to touch, his skin is equivalent to a porcelain doll, cold and smooth, finely decorated, yet fragile. Flamebringer's never seen him willingly touch anyone other than them three, as if protecting himself from a crowd of untrusted individuals. However, now, when Flamebringer presses his lips to his forehead, he thinks that maybe he appreciates Executor's presence in his personal space on a higher level than he expected. Magallan clicks on the button, the camera shutters as Vermeil chews on a jelly. She grabs the picture and shakes it a bit before holding it down so they both can look at it at the same time."You don't think Flame's going to be mad, right?" She asks carefully.Vermeil looks at the picture with mixed emotions, she furrows, "I don't think so. He'll mostly wave this picture in front of everyone. On the other hand, Exe will like this, I think."Magallan's lips quirk up in a huge smile, she pockets said picture, "Well, we better get going and leave these two alone.""You're not going to take the blanket?" Vermeil asks as she tips her boots on the floor.Magallan trails a finger on the doorframe, "Hmm. Probably tomorrow. I don't want to disturb them right now. Not when they look so peaceful."Vermeil contemplates this, she sneers, "Can't believe we just got to see the peak of their oblivious feelings.""Each person has a different type of realisation. Anyway, god, that ending -" They exit the room and head towards their respective dormitories. They wave each other good night, and when Magallan entered her room, she grabbed a marker from her cluster of stationeries and scribbled behind the polaroid picture.[[A polaroid picture: Positive-coloured Frame: Flamebringer is holding Executor in his arms, who is burying his head deep into his chest. A penguin-spotted yellow blanket cover them both and two mugs, one coloured red and one coloured blue on the table can be seen on the table in front of them. Both subjects appear to be deep in sleep, a small smile can be seen grazing Flamebringer's lips.]]
  Flamebringer + Executor cuddling on the couch! Movie night: watching A Penguin's Journey! :)
  Notes:
  This is so random and messy lmaoI've been playing arknights for a long time already but I only started getting into the groove last month - damn, do you know how suckerpunching it is that I've missed flamebringer's free event? Like a lot. Cries.I'm not a huge fan of demon/angel trope but flameexe caught my eyes, it might've been because of how unnatural their personalities are. In a tragic world like Arknights, everything's vague, even the concepts (especially background) for the characters. There's a lot of variation, and I like it? Flamebringer's also not your typical cocky guy, he's fun to expand around. (And also, he's husbando material. Tbh, all of the guys are husbando materials. You need to admit it-)Elysium. ah. bird guy. PLEASE COME OUT SOON IN GLOBAL SERVER. I might go back and rewrite this, this is messy because my brain is messy. Stay safe and peace out, minna!Thanks
  Actions
      ↑ Top
  Comments
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
