      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. jumped the fence to the other side
2. say what you need to say &amp; play who you need...
3. i'm sorry you had it rough (i'm sorry i'm not en...
4. i guess if i'm not of use, go ahead, you can cut...
5. i hope you had a blast while you dragged me alon...
6. find a way to stop it (stop it) just let me off
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               Gen
              Fandom:
               文豪ストレイドッグス | Bungou Stray Dogs
              Relationships:
               Nakajima Atsushi &amp; Oda Sakunosuke (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu &amp; Nakajima Atsushi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu &amp; Kunikida Doppo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu &amp; Oda Sakunosuke &amp; Sakaguchi Ango (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu &amp; Oda Sakunosuke (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu &amp; Sakaguchi Ango (Bungou Stray Dogs)Oda Sakunosuke &amp; Sakaguchi Ango (Bungou Stray Dogs)
              Characters:
               Nakajima Atsushi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)Kunikida Doppo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Oda Sakunosuke (Bungou Stray Dogs)Sakaguchi Ango (Bungou Stray Dogs)Yosano Akiko (Bungou Stray Dogs)Edogawa Ranpo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Miyazawa Kenji (Bungou Stray Dogs)Izumi Kyouka (Bungou Stray Dogs)Tanizaki Junichirou (Bungou Stray Dogs)Fukuzawa Yukichi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Armed Detective Agency (Bungou Stray Dogs) Ensemble
              Additional Tags:
               Oda Sakunosuke Lives (Bungou Stray Dogs)AngstHurt No Comfortslight hurt/comfort but not really lolSad EndingHopeful EndingSort OfCharacter DeathIn a wayDazai-Typical Suicide Mentions (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai-Typical Suicide References (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai-Typical Suicide Attempts (Bungou Stray Dogs)Dazai Osamu Needs a Hug (Bungou Stray Dogs)Nakajima Atsushi Needs a Hug (Bungou Stray Dogs)Sakaguchi Ango Needs a Hug (Bungou Stray Dogs)(that's not a common tag which hurts because he REALLY needs one)Oda Sakunosuke Needs a Hug (Bungou Stray Dogs)TortureImplied/Referenced TortureRevengeAttempted Murderon several countsAmbiguous/Open EndingBroken PromisesBroken Friendshipsthe thing with making a character liveis that a lot of the time you need a fate worse than deathboth for them and the characters affected by their deathso what would be a fate worse than odasaku's deathfor both odasaku and dazai?Well - Freeformi have a lot of answers to that questionand this is only my firsti might write morei might notWho knows tbhmy usual bullshit contact namesDazai Osamu's Terrible Grieving Habits
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 3 of the Odasaku Lives Angst AUs series
    Stats:
      Published:2020-09-05Updated:2020-10-09Words:6295Chapters:6/11Comments:58Kudos:73Bookmarks:13Hits:813
      every tear-soaked whiskey memory blown away
      advanced_fanatic
      Chapter 6: find a way to stop it (stop it) just let me off
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Dazai was having a genuinely good day for the first time in months. Sure, it was awful that Kunikida was making him clean Ango’s house and then find a new housekeeper, but his partner had helped out, and now the three of them were seated comfortably in the living room, chatting, while looking for a new cleaning service that  wouldn’t  be scared away by what appeared to be a corpse in the dryer (although both Ango and Kunikida had expressly forbidden him from trying any more dryer-related suicide attempts, or any attempts using Ango’s household appliances at all, and while today was good, their friendship was still new enough that Dazai didn’t exactly feel comfortable stepping all over his hospitality. He was lucky that Ango had even decided to forgive him, really--Dazai had treated him like dog shit in the four years following Odasaku’s “death", and according to the texts about them Atsushi had forwarded, Odasaku had thought Ango deserved better than Dazai even back then). It was nice, and Dazai could almost see a whole future stretching out like this, him and Ango and the Agency, free from ghosts hovering over their shoulders, free to learn and grow and finally,  finally  be good.So when Ango was contacted about gunshots at a property he owned at the edge of town, Dazai was obviously upset at whoever was there for ruining the mood.“I need to investigate,” Ango said.“It can wait until morning, right?” Dazai whined. “I mean, it’s just gunshots.”“Yes, but it’s…” Ango sighed. “It’s where  he, er, didn’t die.”“Wait, you  own  that place?” Dazai asked.“I bought it after everything...happened. I thought it would make a fitting memorial and I didn’t want people to be building over it. I felt it would be...disrespectful of his memory, in a way. Before you filled me in on where the grave was, I visited it like I did the grave. Although, of course…”“Yeah,” said Dazai, feeling about as uncomfortable as Ango looked. They hadn’t brought Odasaku up sober since they’d made up (or, Ango hadn’t; Dazai had made sure to get at least a little drunk every time he went to speak to Ango even before they found out that Odasaku was alive, just in case), and they hadn’t brought him up at all since the third time Yosano had to treat Ango for liver failure during the month after finding out he was alive and hated them both.“Wait, uh, who are you talking about?” asked Kunikida.“Our former friend, Oda Sakunosuke,” Ango said.“We  thought  he died around five years ago--that was actually what pushed me to leave the Mafia and join the Agency--but it turns out, no, he  faked his death  and is going around as a hitman named fucking  Flawless, which is his Ability name, and, worst of  all, said a lot of rude things about us to Atsushi!” Dazai exclaimed, making his voice as over-the-top devastated as possible to try to hide the fact that he was actually upset as he said he was as Ango rolled his eyes and started pulling up video feed of the building.Sadly, it did not seem to fool Kunikida, who frowned in sympathy and awkwardly patted Dazai on the shoulder and said, “I’m so sorry, Dazai. Does, um, does Atsushi know?”“No, and as far as I’m concerned, he never will,” said Dazai, as Ango let out a strangled gasp. “Odasaku’s lucky to have someone like that in his life, and--”“Dazai!” Ango cut him off, voice horrified, and he shoved the tablet containing the security feeds into his face.Dazai looked, and had never more regretted having eyes than he did in that moment, because Atsushi was lying on the floor in a pool of his own blood, obviously shot multiple times, and Odasaku was walking away, holding one of his guns, and oh  no.This was the second time Dazai was losing someone he loved to a killer in that same building.“He is  dead  ,” Dazai snarled, staring at Atsushi’s bleeding body on the screen. “I am going to get Kyouka--Lucy will put him in Anne’s Room--Yosano can make sure we  carve him up enough  before he dies--he is  so dead, and he is going to experience  every  second of the torture coming to him  twice over.”“What?” said Kunikida, looking a little taken aback.“He killed Nakajima,” Ango said quietly, still in shock.“What?!” Kunikida growled.“He--he--maybe he didn’t,” Ango said, quickly rewinding the feed. But, no, they all watched in abject horror as Odasaku walked in, Atsushi enthusiastically greeted him, and Odasaku said something quiet and grave that the cameras didn’t pick up before getting the gun and shooting Atsushi, so many times, because the boy--Dazai’s boy--Dazai’s mentee just kept getting back  up, desperately trying to heal himself or fight back, until he just lay there, surrounded by much too much blood, and Odasaku turned and walked away.“Sakaguchi, Dazai,” Kunikida said, “I sincerely apologize in advance for everything your friend is going to go through as soon as the Agency gets our hands on him.”Ango’s eyes were hard, although tears were spilling out and down his cheeks. “Kunikida, as long as he is handed over alive to the Special Abilities Division for his crimes, your Agency may do as it pleases.”His voice was too raw with furious grief and betrayal to be properly cold, but neither detective commented on that, instead focusing on getting where they needed to be as fast as possible: Kunikida to the dorms to get the other members of the Agency, Dazai to find the man who had just killed Atsushi.Dazai had never looked too kindly on those who hurt his family, and, well.He had mourned Odasaku years ago. Now all that was left to do was to kill Flawless.
        Notes:
          I have a fun question for you: who here thinks Dazai is genuinely capable of hurting Odasaku, and who doesn't?
  Series this work belongs to:
      ← Previous Work Part 3 of the Odasaku Lives Angst AUs series
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (12)
  Comments
          Maj_ren, FanasReader, AlladaleRiver, teedotlee, kumeclouds, 4UserN0tFound4, Zoonked, dorkium_sphere, monochromexx, plsdontreadmyfics, noceuri, with_a_y, esse_oybeans, MarvelFanandHP, Lets_die_together, Hello_Im_Crazy279, aquanell, TiffanyVA, TheNeonWarrior, DancingInferno, Imalwayshungry, Ellina5, wings_of_an_angel, uvasemelancias, xyz69, iniziadellastella, HsaNlemi, umbreonblue, chizue_witchery, AkieTsuki_02, melancholy_teen, fatassnyan, CinnamonLover, Chuuuuuuuuya, CanIHaveAHug, and IceDream231
             as well as 
          37 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
