      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
5. Chapter 5
6. Chapter 6
7. Chapter 7
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Misfits (TV 2009)
              Relationship:
               Simon Bellamy/Nathan Young
        Language:
        English
        Collections:
        New Year's Resolutions 2019
    Stats:
      Published:2019-01-06Updated:2019-10-19Words:19734Chapters:7/10Comments:28Kudos:244Bookmarks:29Hits:2937
      the freckles in our eyes / are mirror images
      merrymelody
          Summary:
              Title's from the Iron and Wine song used in the show. 
Soulmates AU - in this case, you're born with a tattoo of the first words your soulmate says to you. Used a bit of artistic licence – technically Nathan's would be 'I’m not a pantysniffer', but that’s too cruel to be tattooed on someone, even Nathan; plus I feel like even he might guess. Maybe.  
It's a WIP, I'm guessing it'll be about ten chapters in full.
  Notes:
      For idareu2bme.
      Chapter 1
    Chapter Text
    Simon’s mark is on his forehead, and even his baby photos show a hat securely over the offending words. His mum cuts his hair to hide it, in an effort to avoid bullying, which is all for naught. Everyone at school soon knows that even his soulmate’s first sentence will be: ‘You alright, weird kid?’ He’s had it said to him dozen of times already, barely even notices anymore. Matt dares the prettiest girls to ask him, before they collapse into giggles at the idea. When he’s nine, he’s reading on a lounger on holiday, when a girl with a gap between her teeth and freckles asks ‘Why aren’t you swimming? That’s weird.’ It’s close enough, he figures, and he sticks to her like a duckling to it’s mother for the fortnight, eventually working up to holding her hand. Maybe it’s her? But when he asks her, she looks confused. ‘Mine says “Red or white wine?”’ I don’t think I meet him ‘til I’m older.’ She offers, and he realises, blushing, that she’d never considered him that way at all. Beginning community service, he compulsively touches his fringe. No one’s spotted it in years, but he can’t help but check every so often that it hasn’t revealed itself, that he’s not somehow blaring the truth to everyone around him. He’s been dreading meeting the others attending, he doesn’t know what they’ll have done, but he doubts he’ll make any more friends here than he did at school, or in the unit, for that matter. He vaguely recognises the tall boy, who turns out to be Curtis Donovan, the local celebrity runner, and who thankfully ignores Simon. Alisha is beautiful and terrifying – he stares at her briefly, without meaning to, but she catches him looking and mimics him with a googly-eyed expression, raising her eyebrows; and he ducks his head swiftly. Gary and Nathan fight like badly trained dogs, to everyone’s amusement but his own, apparently, and he decides the best way to get through this is to focus on his filming as much as possible; particularly after Nathan, the Irish boy, tricks him into telling the others why he’s there. He hopes maybe they’ll leave him alone after that, from what he has overheard, their own crimes are comparatively less serious, shoplifting and similar.His ears are buzzing, he can feel himself going red, barely hearing Nathan’s words, he can see from the cheeky grin and the others sneers that it’s going to be another joke at his expense. At lunchtime, Kelly disappears with her phone, and Alisha to the locker rooms. Simon trails after Curtis and Nathan, who’ve decided to utilise the community centre’s recreation room, idly playing table football as they discuss the girls. Nathan has taken to making fun of him, even without the presence of the girls to show off to, although Curtis laughs along as they decide who likes who. Simon can’t help but roll his eyes a little, nervous as he is. Kelly, at least, seems kind, and smiled at him earlier. Apparently a soulmate who’s nice to him is too much to ask for. He’s not particularly hopeful about the whole concept, girls have never paid him much attention, and he doubts any girl destined to be his soul’s one true mate will be enthused about the concept, hence her first words; but if he could choose, he thinks a girl like Kelly, loud and scary as she can be, would be nice.He thought by the end of the first day that, freak weather occurrences and nasty colleagues – co-workers? - aside, he could probably survive six weeks of this; after all, he managed five years at school, but the second day is more humiliating. He misses his phone to hide behind. Alisha appears to be pursuing Curtis, Nathan, or possibly just attention, as she regales all three of them with her story, complete with actions. ‘I don’t know if this cop is gay, or what’, she giggles, and Simon ducks his head, hunching up. Curtis may not be friendly, but he’s at least civilised, he looks almost as embarrassed as Simon feels; but Nathan and Alisha might as well be siblings, as they seem immune to shame. Nathan’s practically mouthing a blowjob himself, licking his lips as Alisha completes her pantomime. Simon can feel himself hardening a little, it’s impossible not to, and seeing twin grins of self-satisfaction, he scowls a little. It’s apt that Alisha’s power turns out to be creating lust after her impromptu show, and Nathan’s quick to inform Simon of all the disgusting things he apparently shouted at her under the influence of her touch, calling him a sick bastard, asking him what pornography he watches. As usual when needling, Nathan’s managed to hit a nerve, and Simon glares, as angry at himself for being so obvious as he is at Nathan for pointing it out. He should be feeling guilty about the fact they’re burying bodies for god’s sake, or fixating on what his new power means. The point of turning invisible when he’s spent his entire life feeling it already is lost on him, but it must mean something. Instead, he feels small and petty, cross that Nathan called him names, that Alisha embarrassed him. It feels just like it did when he saw Matt every day, and that night, wandering the streets after service has finished, he decides he might as well spend an evening with a guarantee of no humiliation, and using his newly found power, he follows his neighbour to the local bar. *Nathan’s tattoo says ‘I’m not a pervert’ and it’s on his upper thigh. Before he’s in double figures, his mother’s already tired of telling him to leave it alone, to stop fiddling with himself before she sews gloves on him, and how he and his soulmate must be a case of opposites attracting, at any rate. She worries, her son already tests her, and such a tattoo only gives him licence to push boundaries, to flirt and behave outrageously, excusing it all.~‘What’s your tattoo say?’ ‘…Allow me to treat you to a McDonalds, milady?’ ‘Nice tramp stamp’? The girl scowls, eyes hardening, which only makes her look more Oriental, the thick black eyeliner clashing with the deep blue shade. Not that Nathan notices mushy crap like that. She also has a fantastic pair of tits, obviously. ‘Don’t act like you know me, cos you don’t.’‘C’mon, I’ll show you mine if you show me yours…’ Nathan needles, but it’s no go, she’s not cracking a smile yet, although she does soften enough to at least tell him why she’s here; which provokes enough curiosity for him to start trolling the creepy bloke, kneeling near the benches like a gnome. The guy who’s soulmate is apparently his cap storms off; and their resident celebrity cokehead Curtis Donovan is chatting up the frizzy haired girl, who’s clearly hoping opening with a phrase like: ‘I know you’ will be popular enough to up her chances that it’s etched underneath the uptight prick’s bicep tattoo. She’s cute, she probably has something pretty generic, another ‘Buy you a drink?’ or ‘Has anyone ever told you how beautiful you are?’Nathan thinks the whole system sounds like a load of wank, truth be told, a trick to persuade guys to sacrifice their nuts and sign up for marriage and 2.4 kids as swiftly as possible. Most people will probably hear their phrase a thousand times, not least from their parents and doctors, so who’s to say which person is truly their mate? There’s the usual sappy shit, stories and urban legends from a friend of a friend about a couple who’s tattoos change colours or start to throb, who disappear and reappear on their skin, and for all he knows, reform to fart the alphabet; but there’s just as many people without marks, or with impossible ones like ‘Hi’ or ‘Excuse me’. His dad swears blind he doesn’t have one himself, and actually, breaking the habit of a lifetime, Nathan’s inclined to believe the selfish bastard. Nathan’s mum has ‘Just out for a walk’ on her elbow, and although his parents split when he was nine, he does remember hearing rows about it, her begging his dad to say it; him telling her it’s too late, and why should he waste his time when he’s not even her true love, over and over at varying volumes. Growing up in Ireland, almost no-one’s parents were a match, the older generation scorning the younger generation and the romantic trend to try and find your match. Mike wasn’t Catholic, another bone of contention for his parents, but he’s apparently traditional enough to marry the mother of his kid, or at least, the first one, mark or no. About the only thing more depressing than the whole concept is ditching it for the first girl who’s dirty enough to let you raw it and religious enough not to take the morning after pill; so Nathan figures if he can’t afford to be choosy, he can at least be halfway clean, and tries to carry a condom. Most of the time. His soulmate’d probably be proper filthy anyway, up for a bit of bum fun. Soulmates might be bullshit, but he supposes it’s not such a jump from magic tattoos to magic powers. The fact that Kelly can hear his thoughts is pretty fucking terrifying, not just the embarrassing homeless situation, but also that he’d like to bang her chavvy self silly. He really needs to get a grip, sure, he’s not at his full pulling powers at present, he can’t see bringing many girls back to the community centre and it’s flat, stained looking mattress, and spending 8 hours a day painting benches is hardly bringing in the cash; but there’s no need to lower his standards. The old hump and dump should cover it, all this moping around is so lame. He tries not thinking about her, she’s apparently already overheard him mentally thrumming it out a couple of times today, and there’s a thin line between flattering and a wanker like the creepy kid. Instead, when he's bored, he teases said creepy kid, who's name he can't quite recall. At first it was taking the piss for his obvious virginity, but after what he said to Alisha, idle curiosity's shifted to fascination, and he’s a man on a mission to find out the other boy's mark. It’s got to be hilarious, what kind of psychopath would be his soulmate? Especially since he can apparently turn invisible, which pretty much proves there’s no god – Nathan should have the best power of all, magnetised pussy or shitting gold; and that little perv has a license to spy? No panty shop in England’ll be safe!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (2)
  Comments
          meelie98, doriande_r, Kaetian, dotdotdotcolonO, lukesanxiety, Gabry_Kaufmann, Jumpymuffin, ladyamante, ClaraAyres, I_Are_Bagel_Jesus, HarleyxQueen, The_Merchant, DrRainbowfish, luxy27, Enailuj, stccldnbrg, expensiveporridge, guitarsongsYAY, HorizonWoof, darkflame, Croixiz, TheArchfiend, MayTheDevilStealMySoul, LazyNoodleDragon, DreadWolf, antspaul, slytherinjennie, Im__satan, TheAwkwardQuintet, EvaTheBold, Stph, Marvelous_Singing_Coconut_Crab, midnightsolace12, TheTeenage, SpacemanKole, rockjjing, yogibear1989, Whatthef0ucault, urinette, TheUKButGood, yrmmbggy, Grace521, quietlyintoemptyspaces, 4everfangirl, Wonkie, robinhoodred, n_adine, AverageDemonBoy, hypothetical_otters, theweakestthing, 
               and 81 more users
            radioactiveNonconformist, pandacircles, overthemoon, allyss, CheshireCat587, biblically_accurate_angel, Antisepticblep, Just_an_account_type_thing, Dan_loves_Suga, awkwardblogger, mayfriend, Skarlettefox, Seabloom, RobinReaper, WantedButcher, gvzingstvr, Sheepywritesfics, GeorgieGirl999, Zanzibaralien, Eburnean, Aqasa, jumboflamingo, VODLIX, FitzisShitz, Richie_toaster, algebraicmutiny, Phoenix_Fire925, SpectralFix, runrarebit, a1c2e31, 1_hurray1, faythful12, TheRealPenguin, Irritableizzy, panwide, NerdyGingerandProud, LostInRed, spikedpoppies, KotaRiverRoad, 27ou27, SkyeWater24, DontOffendTheBees, Edgedancer, jesusonafrickinboat, draig_aswec, Abcde301, Anbessette, BuckyVaRog, llivend, I_write_gays_not_tragedies, JustKitsune, thelobstermobster, Hailbilinski, TalkAboutWhat, theinternetruinedmylife, Adolescently, Hinnatochka, LemmoLamp, hibari, wearealltalesintheend, Cimila, RaouldeChagny, The_Dresden_Files, AnarchyAnagrams, Killer_Rabbit_of_Caerbannog, goathell, bidean, NotCalledGreg, Flyingwiththebirds, wxizzer, AllTheShips3190, Crossblaze, ChocoKit, FantasySwap, howtogetawaywithprocrastination, WolfOfSherwood, kevndcy, frankanthonyierojr, MissMistiBlurryface, lugubrious and idareu2bme
             as well as 
          113 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
