      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,219  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    (Character Tags added for even minor appearances)
  This tag belongs to the Character Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      No Fandom
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      The Tale of the Musketeer
      by
      Dandajiro
      Fandoms:
      僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
 Teen And Up Audiences
 Graphic Depictions Of Violence, Major Character Death
 Gen
 Work in Progress
    30 Mar 2020
  Tags
    Graphic Depictions Of Violence Major Character DeathMidoriya Izuku &amp; Shigaraki Tomura | Shimura Tenko Kurogiri &amp; Midoriya Izuku Midoriya Izuku &amp; Sensei | All For One Bakugou Katsuki &amp; Midoriya Izuku Midoriya Inko &amp; Midoriya Izuku Midoriya Izuku &amp; Todoroki Shouto Midoriya Izuku &amp; Toga Himiko Midoriya Izuku &amp; EveryoneMidoriya Izuku Shigaraki Tomura | Shimura Tenko Kurogiri (My Hero Academia) Midoriya Inko Bakugou Katsuki Bakugou Mitsuki Yagi Toshinori | All Might Sensei | All For One Todoroki Shouto Asui Tsuyu Todoroki Enji | Endeavor Akaguro Chizome | Stain Iida Tenya Giran (My Hero Academia) Toga Himiko Dabi (My Hero Academia) Muscular (My Hero Academia) Sako Atsuhiro | Mr. Compress Bubaigawara Jin | Twice Iguchi Shuuichi | Spinner Izumi Kouta Aizawa Shouta | Eraserhead Uraraka Ochako Shouji Mezou Aoyama Yuuga Tokoyami Fumikage Usagiyama Rumi | Miruko Chisaki Kai | Overhaul Eri (My Hero Academia) Toogata Mirio Ujiko Daruma Gigantomachia (My Hero Academia) Tobita Danjuurou | Gentle Criminal Aiba Manami | La Brava Nezu Kayama Nemuri | Midnight Snipe (My Hero Academia) Maijima Higari | Power Loader Ishiyama Ken | Cementoss Kan Sekijirou | Vlad King Yamada Hizashi | Present Mic Shuuzenji Chiyo | Recovery Girl (Character Tags added for even minor appearances)Villain Midoriya Izuku Dark and Light sides Canon Divergence will get way more divergent later Bakugou Katsuki Swears A Lot Midoriya Izuku Does Not Have One for All Quirk Midoriya Izuku Needs A Hug Adorable Midoriya Izuku Fluff and Angst Emotional Hurt/Comfort grape boi mentioned only once so far Canon-Typical Violence BAMF Midoriya Izuku Bonding Midoriya Izuku is a Nerd Midoriya Izuku is a Dork Midoriya Izuku is a Nerdork Midoriya Izuku is a LOT of things Probably won't add more tags to avoid spoilers
    Summary
      Izuku Midoriya was always a strong child.In spite of his tears, his childlike innocence, and that go-getter fanboy attitude, his inner strength drove him to seek out the chance to save people. He dared to dream he might one day be able to give people hope, just like All Might gave him hope.That dream, that hope, and those leaky eyes are beginning to dry up, as his faith is called into question. But that inner strength still remains. And now it begins to flare with a dangerous new strength. The question now is who it will burn.In the pursuit of information on All Might, Izuku gets mixed up with the villainous side of society. Taken under their wing, for better or for worse, his life might never be the same.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    169,951
    Chapters:
    68/?
    Comments:
    818
    Kudos:
    2626
    Bookmarks:
    566
  Hits:
  61785
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
