      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "sherlock (tv)" m/m NOT "sherlock holmes/john watson"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Prologue
2. ᵂᵉ'ʳᵉ Fᵃⁿᵗᵃˢᵗⁱᶜ, ᴺᵉᵛᵉʳ ᴾᵃⁿⁱᶜ
3. ᴷᵉᵉᵖ ᴵᵗ Qᵘⁱᵉᵗ
4. ᴸᵉᵗ'ˢ ᴳᵉᵗ ᴬⁱʳᵇʳᵘˢʰᵉᵈ
5. ᴮˡᵃᶻᵉʳᵒᵈ
6. Sᵉˡᶠ ⱽᵃʳⁱᵉᵗʸ
7. ᴬ ᴳᵃᵗʰᵉʳⁱⁿᵍ ᵀᵒ ᴼⁿˡʸ Sʰᵃᵗᵗᵉʳ
8. ᴾʰᵃⁿᵗᵒᵐ
9. ᴱⁿᵈˡᵉˢˢ ᴾᵒˢˢⁱᵇⁱˡⁱᵗⁱᵉˢ
10. ᴬ ᴶᵒʸᶠᵘˡ Cᵒⁿˢᵗʳᵘᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ
11. Sᵘⁿᵇᵘʳˢᵗ Sᵘʳᵖʳⁱˢᵉ
12. ᵀʰⁱˢ ᴵˢ ᵀᵒᵒ ᴹᵘᶜʰ
13. ᵀʰᵉ ᴹⁱˢᵗᵉʳ
14. ᴱⁿᵈᵗᵃᵖᵉˢ
15. ᴾʳⁱᵐᵉ ᵀⁱᵐᵉ
16. Cᵒᵈᵉⁱⁿᵉ
17. ᴵⁿᵈᵉᶜⁱˢⁱᵛᵉ
18. ᴾⁱᵗʸ ᴾᵃʳᵗʸ
19. ᴬ ᴿᵉᵍʳᵉᵗᶠᵘˡ Sⁱˡᵉⁿᶜᵉ
20. ᵀʰᵉ ᴮʳᵉᵃᵏⁱⁿᵍ ᴼᶠ ᵀʰᵉ ᵁⁿᵇʳᵉᵃᵏᵃᵇˡᵉ
21. ᴰᵉᵐᵒⁿ ᴺᵒʳ ᴬⁿᵍᵉˡ
22. ᴳʳᵒʷⁱⁿᵍ ᴾᵃⁱⁿˢ
23. ᴰᵉᵃᵈᵐᵃⁿ ᵀᵉˡˡ ᴺᵒ ᵀᵃˡᵉˢ
24. Sˡᵒʷ ᴸⁱᶠᵉ
25. ᴾʰᵃˢᶜⁱⁿᵃᵗⁱᵒⁿ ᴾʰᵃˢᵉ
26. ᵀʰᵉ ᴳᵃⁿᵍˢ ᴬˡˡ ᴴᵉʳᵉ
27. ᵀᵃⁱⁿᵗᵉᵈ ᴹᵃᵗᵉʳⁱᵃˡ
28. ᴴᵃⁿᵍᵐᵃⁿ
29. ᴴᵉᵃˡⁱⁿᵍ ᴴᵘʳᵗˢ
30. ᴮᵉˡᵒʷ Zᵉʳᵒ
31. ᴴᵃᵛᵒᶜ
32. ᴺⁱᵍʰᵗᵐᵃʳᵉˢ ᴿᵉⁱᵐᵃᵍⁱⁿᵉᵈ
33. Sʰᵃᵖᵉˢ ᴬⁿᵈ ᴸᵉᵗᵗᵉʳˢ
34. Sᵒᶜⁱᵃˡ ᴰⁱˢᵗʳᵃᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ
35. ᴿᵉᵐᵉᵐᵇᵉʳ ᴹᵉ
36. ᵂʳᵉᶜᵏⁱⁿᵍ ᴮᵃˡˡ
37. ᵂᵃᵗᵉʳ ᵁⁿᵈᵉʳ ᵀʰᵉ ᴮʳⁱᵈᵍᵉ
38. ᵂᵃᵗᵉʳ ᵁⁿᵈᵉʳ ᵀʰᵉ ᴮʳⁱᵈᵍᵉ ᴾᵃʳᵗ ²
39. Sᵗᵒⁿᵉˢ ᵁⁿᵗᵘʳⁿᵉᵈ
40. ᴾʳⁱˢᵐ ᴬⁿᵈ ᴾᵘᶻᶻˡᵉˢ
41. ᴾⁱˡˡˢ ᴺ' ᴾᵒᵗⁱᵒⁿˢ
42. ᵀʰᵉ ᴮˡᵘᵉˢ
43. ᴬᵉˢᵗʰᵉᵗⁱᶜᵃˡˡʸ ᵁⁿᵖˡᵉᵃˢⁱⁿᵍ
44. ᵀᵉqᵘⁱˡˡᵃ Sᵘⁿʳⁱˢᵉ
45. ᵀʰᵉ ᴿᵉᵗᵘʳⁿ ᴼᶠ ᴿᵉᵈ ᴿᵘᵐ
46. ᴸᵒᵛᵉ ᴵˢ Fᵒʳ Sᵘᶜᵏᵉʳˢ
47. ᴴᵉᵃᵛᵉⁿ ᴰᵉˢᶜᵉⁿᵈˢ
48. Sʰᵉˡˡⁿᵃᵗⁱᵒⁿ
49. ᴮˡᵒᵒᵈ ᴿᵉˡᵃᵗᵉᵈ
50. ᴰᵃʳᵏⁿᵉˢˢ ᴰᵒᵉˢ ᴺᵒᵗ ᴰᵉˢᶜᵉⁿᵈ
51. ᴺᵒᵗ Sᵒ Sʷᵉᵉᵗ
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Categories:
               M/MOther
              Fandoms:
               TMNT - FandomTMNT2k14TMNT2k16Turtlecest - FandomBayverseTMNT
              Relationships:
               Donatello/Michelangelo (TMNT)Leonardo/Michelangelo (TMNT)Leonardo/Raphael (TMNT)Raphael/Leonardo (TMNT)Leonardo/Donatello (TMNT)Raphael/Donatello (TMNT)Raphael/Michelangelo (TMNT)Donatello/Leonardo/Michelangelo/Raphael (TMNT)Michelangelo/Donatello (TMNT)
              Characters:
               Michelangelo (TMNT)Raphael (TMNT)Donatello (TMNT)Leonardo (TMNT)Agent John Bishop (TMNT)Angel (TMNT)Cody Jones (TMNT)Splinter (TMNT)Ancient One (TMNT)
              Additional Tags:
               RomanceDramaDrama &amp; RomanceBlood and GoreTurtlecest (TMNT)FanfictionTMNTSlow BurnFantasyFictionTerrapinExplicit Sexual ContentVampiresImmortalityRapeViolenceKidnappingTemporary AmnesiaPregnancySexAnal SexRough SexRough KissingOral SexRough Oral SexbeastialityGay Sex
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 2 of the The Poison Trilogy series
    Stats:
      Published:2019-12-04Completed:2020-08-11Words:171931Chapters:51/51Comments:83Kudos:28Bookmarks:6Hits:2201
      ᴾⁱᶜᵏ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ ⁽ᵀᴹᴺᵀ⁾ (Book Two)
      Hydrakinz
          Summary:
              " ᴾⁱᶜᵏ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ "ᴵˢ ᵇᵃˢᵉᵈ ᵘᵖᵒⁿ ᶜᵒᵐᵖˡᵉᵗᵉ ᶠⁱᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ ᵃⁿᵈ ⁱᵈᵉᵃ'ˢ ᴴʸᵈʳᵃᵏⁱⁿᶻ ʰᵃˢ ᶜᵒˡˡᵉᶜᵗᵉᵈ ᵒᵛᵉʳ ᵗʰᵉ ᵖˡᵒᵗ ᵒᶠ ʰᵉʳ ᶠᵃᵛᵒʳⁱᵗᵉ ᶠᵃⁿᵈᵒᵐ ᵒᶠ ᵃˡˡ ᵗⁱᵐᵉ, ᵀᴹᴺᵀITS OFFICIAL, BOOK THREE IS COMING!This is BOOK TWO, if you haven't read book one then you won't understand the upcoming plotline. I suggest you read BOOK ONE if you haven't already. Thank you and Cowabunga!This Story Contains #Turtlecest. ໓໐ຖ't likē, ໓໐ຖ't rēค໓.In the second installment of The Poison Trilogy, the story continues but is a thousand times different than the last. The turtles continue to face treachery between the four. The boundaries they argue with daily and even the new arrival in the family.  The plot thickens even as the seconds pass by and from here, they have decisions to make and possibilities to fight against. Donnie reveals a secret that shakes Leo to his core, and Mikey learns some new moves that surprise everyone. What else is there to happen? You wanna know? Then join me on this second journey and end it for real this time! Or maybe, maybe it'll never end.
  Notes:
      Greetings TMNT Lovers &amp; Bookworms.I didn't plan on posting Book Two on here until I finished it. But that is going to take me a long time, just like the first one did. Plus, I figured it would be better if I post it here 'early' so I wouldn't go through hell catching up with fifty chapters later in the future. And I also assumed that maybe some of my viewers don't really wanna bother with Wattpad, so, here's my gift to you. What Is Your Poison (Book One) is two hundred views away from hitting one thousand and that is INSANE. If you haven't read the first book, then please do before you continue on with this one or else this story will be SUPER confusing for you.Anyways, for any further or do, I wish you well on your brand new journey if you've made it this far. I love you guys, and remember, Cowabunga!- Hydrakinz
      Chapter 1: Prologue
    Chapter Text
    ᴾⁱᶜᵏ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿᴾʳᵒˡᵒᵍᵘᵉIt was a job. One job.And the goal was to show no mercy. The guy on paper was into business. He liked flashing his loads to pretty women in the department. But soon, it turned into more. Underneath he was someone unrecognizable. The night was only just beginning and the swift but heavy movements under the barreling down rain was one hint to who was hired for the mission. They were quiet, experienced and professionally trained to the teeth. The boss knew they could pull this off with just two alone. "Richard Ramirez," spoke a gruff, but a light voice. "That him?" asked another voice, but this one was much deeper, much darker in tone. "Yeah," the other said, crinkling the image in his fist with a tight squeeze. Thunder crashed over their heads, but they didn't seem to mind the roars of weather. It had been said that tonight was going to be one of the worst thunderstorms all year round. But these boys didn't care. They lived in the thrill of it. A green hand-stretched over and took the image from the other and was practically stabbing through the paper with his stare. They were covered in black head to toe. This type of material in clothing would keep them hidden from anything and everything. Out of sight, out of mind was another goal."They ever tell this guy he's got a name that could never be forgotten?" The smaller one shrugged, "Whoever named him as a kid, wanted him dead," "Let's move then,"They took off in the heat of the night just before leaping to the other side of the building they resigned on. It was pitch black and slippery as shit out here, but their skills made up for it. Once on the roof, one of them slipped down as quietly as they could, while noticing the night guards just below under a street light of some sort. They all had guns. One in hand and a pistol on the off-hand strapped to their thigh. The bigger intruder thought briefly about how easy this was gonna be. An In And Out Job. But either way- it was gonna get messy. Very messy. "Quiet," the smaller interrupted just before slipping into an open window on the top floor. "Yeah, yeah," Once they were both in, their new objective was to find Richard's office. Which was luckily on this floor. They had gotten lucky and skipped over at least a dozen guards. It'd be like some sort of boss fight in a video game before they even reached this dude if they alerted anyone or took the short route.A few lights were on, and the place was dusty. For someone, a man of business, he sure didn't enjoy cleaning all that much. The smaller intruder crept along the wall towards the brightest light they could set their eyes on. And sure enough, once the room was made to peek into the office, a light-skinned man at the age of thirty maybe was sitting at his desk. But he was asleep and snoring loud enough to wake the whole north side of New York. The two pushed open the door, but still to be quiet. "Did you bring the rope?" The other nodded in reply and even found some tape in one of the storage drawers. Perfect. After they gagged and tied Richard up, he was carried on the larger intruder's shoulder and soon they vanished into thin air. As if they weren't even in the building. No alarms, no fights or gunshots were to be heard. It was a all heat in the moment type of situation. Luck was on their side tonight and luckily no one got hurt. Yet.The two soon appeared heading towards an abandoned building a few blocks away from the town square. They took their time entering the shattered parking lot where bricks and dust could be swept up just be a sneeze at this rate, and sitting in the lot was a four-door SUV. As the intruders had gotten closer, the men in the car got out and only one seemed familiar.  "No trouble?" John simply asked, motioning for the boys to put Richard down. "As requested, absolutely none," the smaller confirmed just as the larger threw the man from his shoulder, which shook him from sleep, and he instantly began panicking and squirming at John's feet. "For your first go, I'm honestly impressed. After all, this was your idea, Leonardo," John beamed glancing down at the squirming man. Leo glanced up at the larger form and removed his mask, as did the other. "We wanted to help," Leo explained, "Right, Raph?"Raph chewed on a toothpick he soon put between his teeth just after taking off the balaclava, "Uh-huh. More like clean this place up. Nobody ever worries about the south side anyway and now we do," "Very well," John says, motioning his men to get rid of Richard and two of them came forth and lifted him from his feet and shoulders and put him in the car. "What's gonna happen to him?" Leo questions watching John's men carry him away. "Well, I'm stuck between killing the poor bastard or just throwing him in a cell for the rest of his life. But, that part worries me, he's uh, got a lot of money. I mean, I've got more, but there is a possibility he could get a lawyer, and have every inch of proof of being involved with the city murders and getting out clean. It's a battle between life and death here," John explains, waving his hand towards the turtles."Why not just kill him?" Raph questions with a sneer. Leo shoots him a glare, "Raph, if there is another choice other than that, the man would just suffer in prison for the rest of his life. He would suffer at nothing if someone killed him," "Relax you two, I'll figure it out. For now, here's your payment, as promised," John says just before handing out two stacks of bills to the turtles. They both were paid with enhanced utility for getting the job done right. Both at least one thousand apiece. Which wasn't much in Raph's eyes, but well worth it for his save bank. "Thanks again for this. We kinda need it right now," Leo says and John smiles at that. "I know, kid. Even though I said I'd take care of whatever ya need. But if you prefer to work at it hard, then fine, I'm okay with that too, but all ya gotta do is just let me know when you want outta the game. Now, both of ya's, get back home and be sure to check on Angel for me," John orders before walking away and getting back in his car, where the turtles were soon left to be alone. Once gone, Raph gave Leo a quick high five before leaving the lot. Leo wasn't so sure that this was what he wanted anymore. This kinda life. But he was just so damn stubborn and independent. He couldn't give up now, not ever. And Raph, well. Raph did it for the thrill. ᵀᵒ ᴬ ᴺᵉʷ ᴮᵉᵍⁱⁿⁿⁱⁿᵍ
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (12)
  Comments
          TurtleLover84, Mrs_Turtle9000, PastelThicc, Jamaica_tan, Sorumeito1, Midnight_Shadiw_Hunter, BrightLotusMoon, Kinich, Nightgirl08, and Deliciousdame
             as well as 
          18 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
