      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               F/FGen
              Fandom:
               The Owl House (Cartoon)
              Relationships:
               Amity Blight/Luz NocedaEda Clawthorne &amp; Lilith ClawthorneAmity Blight &amp; Edric Blight &amp; Emira BlightAmity Blight &amp; Luz NocedaAmity Blight &amp; Lilith ClawthorneMinor or Background Relationship(s)Camilia Noceda &amp; Luz NocedaAmity Blight &amp; Camilia NocedaAlador Blight &amp; Amity Blight &amp; Odalia Blight
              Characters:
               Amity BlightLuz NocedaCamilia NocedaEda ClawthorneLilith ClawthorneEdric BlightEmira BlightWillow (The Owl House)Gus (The Owl House)King (The Owl House)Willow ParkHooty (The Owl House)Gus PorterAlador BlightOdalia BlightViney (The Owl House)Jerbo (The Owl House)Barcus (The Owl House)Boscha (The Owl House)Skara (The Owl House)
              Additional Tags:
               Hurt/ComfortAlternate Universe - Canon DivergenceWorried Siblings Edric and EmiraActually not slow burn for onceLove ConfessionsFalling In LoveLuz is a dork and still hasn’t realized she has a crush on Amitybut reality is about to catch up on her real soonAmity has very much accepted she’s in love with Luzand she’d tell her if she didn’t keep getting interruptedDorks in LoveLuz and Amity read fanfic togetherLiving Together(by accident)There’s going to be so many dates in this oneAlso Amity gets in trouble with yet another principalintroducing Amity to human stuff she doesn’t know yetlesson one: don’t get hit by a car please thank youOne chapter in and everyone’s already cryinggood job meheads up there will be even more crying in future chaptersMeeting the ParentsHugsso so so so so many hugsAlso kissesCamilia actually just means wellAmity’s parents don’tMeanwhile the others try to find a way to get them back to the Boiling IslesBisexual Female CharacterAmity bravely fights a toothbrush at one pointCredits to GoG_Kudos for helping me come up with that idea XDFluffAngstFluff and AngstMinor InjuriesCharacter Developmentalso there’s an entire grudgby-side plot now because I have no self-controlWHY IS THERE SO MUCH CRYING IN THIS FIC WHAT IS WRONG WITH MEthis is turning out a bit more slow-burny than originally intendedwhoopsI swear at least half of the fic is established relationshipbut I also have zero self-control so everything is turning out way longer than originally intendedI Wrote This Instead of Sleepingcamilia is a good momSemi-accidental adoption
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-08-10Updated:2020-09-30Words:39738Chapters:7/?Comments:593Kudos:3099Bookmarks:466Hits:42904
      Locked Out
      EleenaDume
          Summary:
              “Belos gave me a choice. He told me to get rid of Luz, one way or another. And I did. Now everyone’s back in the realm they belong in, nobody got hurt and Luz is forever out of danger. It’s best for everyone involved that way.”“Keep telling yourself that, Lily.” Eda glared daggers at her sister. “Oh, and solid job on locking your own protégée out of the Boiling Isles, by the way.”“What are you talking about?”“Amity went through the door after Luz,” Emira chimed in. Her voice was scarily monotone. “Now she’s trapped on the other side of the portal you just destroyed.”—Summer has come to an end, which means Luz is forced to return from ‘summer camp’ and resume her regular life back at home with her mom. When she leaves, she promises she’ll be back soon.Unable to overcome her fear of telling Luz how she feels about her before she steps through the door, Amity finally finds the courage to do it when the door closes behind Luz and makes the rash decision to follow her.Then something goes wrong, and now Amity is stuck in Luz’s realm with her crush, far away from everything she’s ever known.Getting back home might prove more difficult than she’d originally hoped...
  Notes:
    (See the end of the work for notes.)
      Chapter 1: A Heartfelt Goodbye And A Rash Decision
        Notes:
          The first chapter has some spoilers for Enchanting Grom Fright, so I‘d recommend watching the episode before you start reading!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  Luz was straight up shaking. She wasn’t ready for this. She wasn’t ready to leave already. 
  Time had flown by since her arrival on the Boiling Isles, and just like that, the three months she was supposedly ‘at summer camp’ were over, and her mom was expecting her back at home. In just two days, she was supposed to go back to regular human school rather than Hexside, and she already got bored just thinking about that. Not only that, but there was also the fact that she had basically no friends at home, and there was quite a few people she didn’t look forward to seeing again after summer break that she hadn’t missed in the slightest.
  Luz didn’t fit in at home. She’d never been quite as happy there as she was here.
  She’d miss everyone she’d met here so much. 
  She’d miss her comedy hours with King, hanging out with Willow and Gus, getting into all kinds of semi-legal but awesome messes with Eda, joking around with the twins, and... Amity. 
  Oh god, how much she’d miss Amity.
  The two of them had not started out on the best terms, but slowly, Amity had softened up to her, and hidden behind that mean, cold demeanor was easily the most amazing person Luz had ever met.
  They’d all had so much fun together over the summer, and Luz was overjoyed with seeing Amity and Willow becoming friends again after everything that had happened between them. 
  But now it was time to say goodbye...
  “I don’t wanna leave you guys... I’ll miss you all so much...”
  She was full-on ugly crying again, and she didn’t care in the slightest. This was hard. These guys were her best friends – her family. And now she had to leave them. Even though it was only temporary, she deserved to be upset.
  “Awww, we’ll miss you too, Luz.” Willow pulled her best friend into another tight hug. She was visibly on the verge of tears as well. “Promise you’ll come visit often?”
  “Of course. I promise.” 
  Luz had no doubt she’d have no trouble at all keeping that promise. If she could have, she would have stayed on the Boiling Isles entirely. Obviously she’d come visit this wonderful magical fantasy world with all of its’ terrifying monsters as often as she could.
  “Good. I’ll hold you to that. This is so you, you know, don’t forget me.”
  Willow handed Luz a little pot, then held her hand over it to make a small flower grow out of it.
  “I could never forget you, Willow. And is that...?”
  Willow nodded and smiled at her.
  “The same kind I was healing when we first met.“
  Luz beamed.
  “Awesome! I promise I’ll treasure it forever! And also try to not forget to water it!”
  Luz did not have the best history with that, admittedly. But she’d try. 
  ...it was the thought that counted, right?
  “I made some more magic letters to tell you goodbye!” Gus smiled at her when she turned her attention to him.
  “If it’s another ‘GOODBYE FOREVER’ I swear, I’ll-“ Willow growled, but her friend lifted his hands in defense before she could finish her sentence, interrupting her.
  “Of course not! I promised I’d get rid of them, remember?”
  The blue letters over their heads spelled ‘SEE YOU NEXT SUMMER!’, and then he pulled out another sentence saying ‘HOPEFULLY SOONER‘.
  Willow nodded in approval.
  “Don’t you dare forget about us when you get back to your cool human school, you hear me?”
  Luz chuckled a bit as she hugged Augustus.
  “Gus, I’ve told you before, there’s nothing particularly ‘cool’ about human school. And there’s no way I’ll ever forget any of you or this place! I love you all so much.”
  “And we love you, Luz! Hoot Hoot!”
  Luz smiled and turned to King next.
  The little king of demons jumped into her arms and sobbed silently.
  “Awww, I’ll miss you, too, little guy.”
  “The King of Demons misses nobody!” He protested, cuddling up to her. Then, he sighed. “...but maybe I will miss you.” He continued on, so quietly that nobody but her could hear it.
  She beamed and patted his head.
  “Don’t worry, your secret’s safe with me.” He hugged her once more. “And we’ll always be connected through our friendship necklaces, remember?”
  “Yeah! Of course! So don’t miss me too much, okay?”
  Luz chuckled.
  She took a couple more seconds to hug him, then turned to her mentor. 
  This was so hard. So incredibly, incredibly hard. She was leaving behind so much here. She didn’t want to leave, not even temporarily... because leaving the Boiling Isles meant leaving behind a part of her. A huge part of her.
  But she had to go. She missed her mom, and she didn’t want her to be worried. But that she had to didn’t make saying goodbye any easier...
Luz had thought that saying her farewells to her classmates the day before had been hard – but this was so,  so much worse.
  With every person she said goodbye to, she felt like she was leaving behind another huge part of her. She felt her emotions being torn in too many directions at once, and it hurt, and she also felt like the last words she said to everyone before leaving needed to be perfect, despite knowing that they couldn’t and wouldn’t be.
  “Eda...”
  Luz didn’t even know where to start. There were so many things she wanted to say, so many things she wanted to thank her mentor for, and the reality that she was leaving now made her so emotional that all of it got stuck in her throat. 
Thankfully, Eda  did  know where to start.
  “So... you really made it through the summer without getting lost or eaten, huh? Color me impressed!” Eda grinned as she ruffled Luz’s hair. “Seriously though... you did good, kid. You’re one of the toughest witches I’ve ever met. I’ll miss ya. See you soon, okay?”
“Yeah.” Luz wiped some tears off her cheeks, then pulled her mentor into a hug. “And... thanks, Eda. For everything. You know, this might sound a bit silly, but... you’ve kind of become like a second mom to me. You know, the  weird, criminal kind.”
  “So, the best kind, right?” Eda chuckled, but was visibly tearing up when she hugged Luz back. “Now come on, kid. Hurry up with the rest of your goodbyes before your human mom reports you missing. It’s time to finally make good on my promise to get you home.”
  Luz nodded and sighed as more tears streamed down her face. Just Amity and the twins left.
  The human girl wasn’t sure why, but something inside her told her she should save saying goodbye to Amity for last. The thought of leaving everyone here hurt, enough to make her unable to sleep... but when she thought about leaving Amity and not seeing her again for several months, she felt like all air had been sucked out of her lungs.
   ‘Come on, Luz. This is the last time you’ll see her in a while. Don’t make an idiot of yourself for once, okay?’ 
  She sighed sadly as she walked up to Amity and the twins. 
  Edric and Emira were giving their sister extremely weird glances time and again, and Amity looked like she was about to implode.
  “So... this is it, I guess? Edric, Emira... you guys are pretty cool. Thanks for, you know, helping me to train for Grom and stuff. I’ll miss you. See you guys next summer!“
  “We’ll miss you, too, Luz,” Emira said, looking at her brother expectantly as if she was waiting for him to add something – which he immediately did.
“But not as much as Mittens will miss you,  right baby sis?”
  Amity went beet-red. 
  She was pretty much convinced the only reason her siblings hadn’t just said goodbye to Luz at school the day before was because they were determined to embarrass Amity to death in front of her crush one more time before Luz left for the human realm.
  ...and maybe also to make sure Amity actually went through with the confession she had planned.
  Oh, how she regretted asking Emira for advice and thinking for even a single second that this could end any other way than it had. Why had she done that again?
   ‘Right. Because Emira is the only one of us that’s somewhat functional enough to actually ask someone out.’ 
  Amity send death glares in both of her siblings’ directions and growled.
  “Shut it, you two!”
  “We didn’t say anything, Mittens, I have no idea what you’re talking about,” Emira replied with a grin.
  Amity groaned.
  Luz looked up at the twins.
“Oh, and one more thing before I leave... please be nice to your sister, okay? I know you guys  can  be pretty cool, but what you did at the library was taking things  way too far , and if you ever actually hurt Amity with something you do, I’m going to stop being friends with you.”
  “Yeah, yeah, got it.”
  “Hear that, Mittens? She’s super protective of you! That’s adorable,” Edric teased Amity, winking at his little sister.
  Amity could feel her cheeks heat up even more.
  “I said shut it.” She sighed. “Sorry about that. Anyway... Luz, I’m... really going to miss you.”
  There was an instant change in the tone when Amity said Luz’s name, switching from her being annoyed at her siblings to an incredibly soft voice in a matter of seconds.
  Luz pulled her into a bear hug.
  “Me too. I’ll miss you so much, Lemon Drop. Especially our book club.”
  Amity just melted into the hug and never wanted to let go of her friend again. Her cheeks turned a light shade of pink at the new nickname that Luz had just blurted out without thinking much about it.
  Meanwhile, everyone around them was exchanging weird looks.
  “Did- did Luz just call Mittens ‘Lemon Drop’?” Emira whispered to her twin brother.
  Edric nodded.
  “And Mittens didn’t even kill her.”
  “Luz, listen, I-” Amity swallowed hard. “There’s something that I need to tell you before you go.”
   Wow, Luz smelled really nice. 
  ‘Focus, Amity!’ She commanded herself, taking a deep breath.
  Luz was looking at her curiously.
  “What is it?”
“I-” Her words got stuck in her throat.  What was she thinking? She couldn’t actually believe she’d be able to go through with this, could she? What if Luz didn’t like her back? What if she told her right now and messed up their entire relationship?  “I can’t do it,” she mumbled to herself, just quietly enough that Luz didn’t hear her.
  “What is it, Amity?” Luz repeated when her friend hadn’t replied to her question after a while.
  Amity was obviously nervous and hesitant about something, but why? Was everything alright? The longer the green-haired witch stayed quiet, the more worried Luz got.
  Amity bit her lip and pulled her friend closer.
  “I just... Promise me you’ll be back soon, okay?“
  Amity never wanted to let go again, because letting go meant Luz would actually leave, and then she’d be gone, and then... 
  The green-haired witch felt tears streaming down her face.
“Of course. I promise.” Luz audibly gasped when she lifted her head to see her friend cry.  “Amity...”
  “Sorry, it’s just...”
“You really  are  going soft on me, huh?” Amity didn’t know how to reply, so she just nodded. “Hey, it’s okay. Don’t apologize. I’ve been bawling my eyes out all day, after all.” Luz smiled at her, then lifted a finger to her friend’s cheek and gently wiped the tears off Amity’s face. “I’m going to be back as soon as I can. And I promise I’ll miss you all an unhealthy amount in the meantime.”
  Luz’s smile felt forced. Her heart was aching, and a part of her wanted to stay right here in this spot and just breathe in Amity’s nice magic perfume forever... but she had no choice. 
  She had to go.
  When Luz finally let go of Amity, she did it slowly and reluctantly.
  There was a heavy numbness in her heart when she opened the door, Willow‘s flower and the memories of this wonderful place safely packed in her back as she readied herself to return to her regular life with her mom. 
  She took a deep breath and turned towards her friends one last time. They were all smiling and waving, and Luz waved back, not even bothering to hold back her tears as she looked at the most special people she’d ever met for what would be the last time in a long while.
  “Goodbye, terrifying fantasy world. I’m really going to miss you!” 
  She’d be back soon. That was her only consolation.
  “And we’ll miss you, Luz!”
  She smiled at her friends – her second family – once more, and then she closed her eyes and stepped through the door.
  Emira put a comforting hand on her sister’s shoulder when Luz went through the door, back into her own world.
  “Couldn’t tell her, huh? It’s okay, Mittens. There’ll be other opportunities.”
  Amity didn’t even reply. She was too focused watching Luz leave... and when the door closed shut behind her, Amity suddenly awoke from her trance and abruptly started moving.
  It had finally hit her that Luz would be really, actually gone now – out of reach for her, for all of them –, and that it would possibly be a really long time before they’d see each other again.
  What if she didn’t find any opportunities to come visit them before next summer? 
  A lot could happen in a year. A lot could change...
   What if Luz came back and didn’t like Azura anymore?  
   What if she came back and had fallen in love while she was away? 
   What if Amity had missed her one chance to tell Luz how she felt about her? 
  Maybe it was the overthinking that made her do it, or maybe she just wasn’t thinking at all – but Amity went and grabbed a hair clip from the pile of human items that Eda had lying around on the table from the last Human Treasures Day and ran after Luz.
  Gus looked at her in confusion.
  “Uh... what are you doing?”
  “What does it look like? Luz forgot her hair clip. I’m going to go after her and give it back to her!” Amity replied with a grin as she reopened the door and disappeared through it.
  Edric started after his sister in disbelief and whistled.
  “Whoa. Bold move, Mittens.”
  Emira nodded.
  “But I get it. She’s a little shy. It’s probably easier for her to do without so many eyes watching her.”
  Gus just looked around really confused.
  “Correct me if I’m wrong, but I’m pretty sure that hair clip didn’t actually belong to Luz.”
  Willow just smiled.
  “Amity knows that.”
  “...huh? But why did she go after her, then?” Willow couldn’t help but chuckle a bit at the big question mark on her friend’s face. “Am I missing something here? Can somebody explain to me why all of you are looking at each other so weirdly?”
   “Oh Gus...” 
 Luz was still staring at the door of the small wooden cabin that had brought her into the magical world,the one that she was now supposed to leave, so many months ago, trying to tear her eyes from it so she could head home. It was hard, because a large part of her felt like she wasn’t heading home but actually leaving home. She’d barely left the Boiling Isles and was already starting to feel homesick.
  She already missed her friends. It took all her barely existent self-control to keep her from opening the door again and stepping back inside.
  Suddenly, the door opened again – entirely without Luz touching anything –, and a second later, Amity ran out, and barely managed to balance herself in time in order to not trip down the small flight of stairs in front of the house.
“Luz, you forgot-” The green-haired witch blushed when she regained her balance and realized that there had been no need for running  or  yelling after her friend, since Luz was still standing only a couple of steps from where she herself was standing right now. She facepalmed. “Oh great, now I look like an idiot.”
  She closed the door behind her. The last thing she wanted for what was about to follow was an audience made of curious friends and family staring at them from the other side of the door.
  “As someone who’s an expert at looking like an idiot, believe me, you didn’t. Believe me, I’d absolutely have tripped down these stairs if I were you,” Luz chuckled. Amity smiled at her as she walked down the stairs towards Luz. “And I’m not complaining, but... what are you doing here?”
  The green-haired witch shyly touched the back of her head.
  “You... forgot this.”
  She handed Luz the hair clip she’d grabbed from the table. This was the first time she actually looked at it properly. It was small, v-shaped and had a silly little pink flower glued on.
  “Oh.” Luz put her bag down on the ground and looked at what her friend was handing her. “Amity, that’s really sweet, but... that’s not my hair clip.“
  “Really?” Amity asked, trying her best to sound surprised, as if she hadn’t been almost certain that was the case anyway. “Oh well. Now that I’m here...”
  Luz interrupted her and pulled her into a hug.
  “But... it’s really sweet that you did that. Even if it’s not really my clip, that you came after me like that for something as small as this is... really cute.”
  Luz felt her heart flutter the way it had for a bit now whenever she was around Amity. There was something about the green-haired witch that made Luz feel weirdly comfortable and happy whenever they were together, so much that even the smallest gestures suddenly became extremely meaningful and that she couldn’t help but smile just thinking about her.
  Even though the clip didn’t actually belong to her, at that moment, Luz was very glad about the mix-up. 
  Maybe one more hug would make the final goodbye a little easier. Maybe if she hugged her long enough, Amity’s magic perfume would stay on Luz’s own clothes as well, and she could pretend Amity was there with her when she closed her eyes. The thought was nice.
  Amity would gladly have remained in this position for another two hours, but that wasn’t why she’d come here. 
  The hair clip had just been her excuse in case she’d chicken out again, after all. But she wouldn’t. Not this time.
  She was still freaking out about the reasons she’d stopped herself from confessing her feelings before... but seeing Luz close the door behind her had made Amity realize that she might regret it for the rest of her life if she didn’t act right now. 
  As nice as Grom had been, she still wished she’d actually found the courage to ask Luz out. And if she still regretted something like that so deeply several weeks later – despite the fact that this specific story had had a happy ending anyway –, how much would she regret not confessing if Luz actually ended up falling in love with someone else?
  That wasn’t something Amity wanted to think about, now or ever.
  She slowly moved out of the hug and locked gazes with Luz.
  “Always. But... Luz, I need you to forget about the hair clip for a second, okay? There’s something I need to tell you, and I have to do it now, because who knows what will have changed between us by the time I see you again. It’s... really important.”
  She was nauseatingly nervous, and a part of her wanted to either run away or at least quit looking at Luz and start staring at her own shoes instead.
  “Hey, is... is everything okay?” Luz looked genuinely concerned. She had never seen Amity this nervous before, and the green-haired girl seemed so serious. “You don’t look so good. You’re not...” Luz but her lip. She was really, really worried, and the thought of voicing her concerns out loud made her even more worried, but if something was wrong with Amity, she needed to know right away. “You’re not dying, are you?”
  The thought alone almost made her knees give out.
   “...what?” 
  The look of genuine confusion in Amity’s face lifted a huge weight off of Luz’s shoulders.
  “Oh thank god. It’s just, you looked so pale, and-”
  The green-haired witch chuckled.
  “Nope. Definitely not dying. Except maybe of nervousness.” Luz being so worried about her because of something as little as her being slightly pale was adorable and made Amity’s heart leap out of her chest way more than it should have. And the dumb misunderstanding had taken away at least a little bit of her nervousness.
  She took a deep breath.
   ‘Come on, Amity Blight. You can do this. You can do this.’  
  She took Luz’s hand.
  Alright. This was it. No chickening out this time. She was ready.
  “Luz, listen, I think I-“
  A deafening explosion from behind Amity cut her off, and then a wave of pain washed over her as the shock wave slammed her right into Luz.
        Notes:
          Welcome to my first Owl House-Multichapter-fic!This idea randomly came over me one night, and then I started writing it because I have an immense lack of self-control.Shoutout to IcyGauntlet for coming up with the title for this story!I’m not sure when the second chapter will be up since I have a lot on my plate right now, and I also have no idea how many chapters total it’s going to be, but I hope you enjoyed it so far!Thank you for reading, feedback would be much appreciated!
      Chapter 2: Witches In The Woods
        Notes:
          There’s a lot of panicking this chapter, both in a lovey-dovey sense and in a regular one xDToday’s hot take: Amity is just as much of a disaster as Luz, she just seems slightly more functional because she grew up on the Boiling Isles while Luz didn’t.I know I said I’d update Monday, it’s not Monday but I also have zero self-control – as proven by the fact that this chapter isn’t only earlier than planned but also almost 1.5k words longer than the last –, bear with me here xD
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  “-mity? Amity, are you okay? Can you hear me?”
  The green-haired witch wasn’t sure how much time had passed when Luz’s soft, worried voice reached her through the loud, painful ringing in her ears. 
  Everything was still black around her, her eyelids felt too heavy to open them as the voice reached her through the darkness that surrounded her.
  What exactly had just happened?
  “I-” Amity groaned a bit and tried not to move too much. Her head was throbbing and her back hurt a bit – or maybe a lot –, but she was also lying on top of something incredibly warm and comfortable that felt really nice. If the pain hadn’t already made her not want to move, the fact that the ground beneath her felt so good would have been enough of a reason to just stay there all day. “I’m fine, just a bit dizzy,” she mumbled. She still couldn’t bring herself to open her eyes, but she also really didn’t want Luz to worry about her. It was probably nothing anyway. “I landed on something surprisingly soft.”
  “Oh, did you now?”
  The smug tone of Luz’s voice and the fact that Amity finally realized how close the voice sounded to her made her come to a pretty embarrassing conclusion about what she was currently lying on, which immediately proved true when she finally managed to force her eyes open and the world around her became a bit less blurry. 
  She was on top of Luz.
   ‘...of course.’ 
  Amity’s face turned scarlet, and for a moment, she silently hoped that whatever had just attacked them would kill her before she could die of her own embarrassment.
  She was really doing extra well when it came to making herself look like a complete idiot in front of Luz today, wasn’t she?
  “Oh stars, I’m so sorry.” Realizing where she was lying had made her wide awake again in a matter of seconds. “I- I didn’t hurt you, did I?”
  She tried to get up. Her face was so incredibly close to Luz’s that their noses almost touched and Amity felt her cheeks grow redder  and redder by the second. She could have leaned in and kissed her right then and there... but she didn’t.
Now was  not  the time, and this wasn’t exactly the ideal scenario for a romantic first kiss that she’d imagined, either.Not that she’d imagined how she wanted their first kiss to go –  more than a couple of times...
  Luz shook her head.
“No, don’t worry, I’m fine. But you  did  scare me quite a bit with the whole ‘blacking out’-thing. You had me really worried for a second there. It looked like you took a pretty bad hit...”
  The sweet look of concern in Luz’s face almost made Amity forget she was trying to get up for a moment.
   Dang it, how was this girl so perfect? 
  “I... Sorry about that.”
  Amity grinned at her crush sheepishly when she finally managed to sit up properly and moved off of Luz. 
  The green-haired witch then focused entirely too much on wiping a total of fours grass stalks off her clothes in order to not have to address what had just happened.
  It took a moment for her to remember again why she’d fallen in the first place.
  “Wait, what about the thing that just attacked us?” 
  She’d been so busy panicking about lying on top of Luz that she’d forgotten about that again right away after she’d remembered it the first time.
  She looked around panicky, but couldn’t make out any sign of immediate danger. That was good, at least. 
  ...but she was still really confused. 
  “What exactly happened? I feel like I’m missing something here. How long was I out?”
  Did she hit her head? That would explain the throbbing at least...
  “Attacked isn’t the right word I think,” Luz replied, now also slowly sitting up. “I mean, it might have been an attack, but it was directed less at us and more at the door.”
  She gestured towards the wooden cabin.
  Amity blinked, unsure how exactly she’d missed this before when she realized what her friend meant... there was now a gaping hole where the green door had been previously been. There were black burn marks all around the hole in the wooden wall.
  “Oh.”
“Yeah. This could have ended a lot worse if either of us had still been on top of the staircase.” Luz sighed. “I was going to warn you, but it happened so fast that I didn’t have the time to. I see some sort of fire, and boom! Next thing I know I’m lying in the grass and you’re blacked out on top of me and not responding. I was... really scared for a second when you didn’t reply.” Luz swallowed audibly as her hand found Amity’s. “If anything had happened to you because of that stupid hair clip, I’d never forgive myself.”For a moment, Amity just sat there, unmoving, because  how exactly was she supposed to function properly while Luz was holding her hand?
  It wasn’t like they’d never held hands before, so how was she still panicking this much? Why was her heart beating so fast? 
   ‘Pull yourself together, you’ll never be able to kiss her if you get this mushy over hand-holding.’ 
  This was ridiculous. 
  She took a deep breath, and finally, she was able to formulate a proper sentence.
  “Luz, I... it’s okay, really. I’m fine.”
There was nothing wrong with a little white lie, was there? She didn’t want to make Luz upset, and while Amity had definitely felt better, she didn’t feel that bad – this was nothing a healing spell and some pain killers could fix when she got...  back home. 
  Amity froze in shock when she suddenly realized what what Luz had just said probably meant.
  “The door’s gone.”
  All color drained from Amity’s face. 
  She stood up, her legs still a bit wobblier than she would have liked them to be, and half ran, half stumbled towards the cabin to take a look inside. 
  When she entered through where the door had previously been, nothing happened. She wasn’t back home. She just stood inside a random rundown wooden cabin.
  “Amity, what are you-” Luz stepped inside to see her friend sunken onto the floor, staring at some small green splinters in her hands that were now the only thing that remained of what had once been a magical portal. Luz kneeled down next to Amity and looked at her in slight confusion... and then it also dawned on Luz that they were in the actual cabin rather than back on the Boiling Isles. “...uh oh.”
  For a moment, the two of them just sat there in silence, taking in the weight of what had just happened and what it probably meant for them. 
  The door was gone. That meant their pathway to the Boiling Isles was gone. They couldn’t go back.
  Ever the optimist, Luz was desperately trying to find an explanation that would calm her and Amity down. Freaking out right now wouldn’t help, especially since they didn’t even know what had happened. Maybe it wasn’t as bad as it looked?
  “Maybe they just had to close the door for some reason and will open it again later? And even if that’s not the case, I’m sure Eda and the others will be able to fix whatever problem they’re having with it really soon.”
  Luz’s smile didn’t feel genuine, but she had to believe it was something like that. A temporary problem. Not forever. 
  If she didn’t, she would have a mental breakdown, and this was neither the time nor the place for one.
  She couldn’t have... just found a place where she felt truly at home for the first time in her life and then have said place along with the wonderful friends she had there taken away from her forever only a few months after she’d first found it.
  Amity gave her a skeptic look and sighed. 
“Not to be a buzzkill, Luz, but usually when a door just gets closed, it involves fewer explosions.” Amity reached for Luz’s hand and ran her fingers over Luz’s to calm herself down. It didn’t work that well,  but it did feel pretty nice.  “Don’t get me wrong, I... appreciate you trying to calm me down, I really do. But I’m afraid that probably won’t work right now. Whatever happened that caused an explosion like that has to be pretty severe, and... our friends were on the other side of that door. My siblings, too. I just... what if... what if something happened to them? What if they’re hurt?”
  That was something else Luz hadn’t wanted to think about.
  “I... I’m sure they’re okay. They can take care of themselves, right? Willow is crazy powerful, and Eda is the strongest witch on the Boiling Isles, after all. Whatever just happened, I’m sure they can handle it.”
  And she really did believe that. They’d gone through a lot of crazy stuff together. Enough to make Luz believe that their friends could handle whatever the Boiling Isles threw at them. 
  The confidence in her voice made Amity smile a bit.
  “Yeah, okay, I guess you’re right about that.” 
  She squeezed Luz’s hand again. Luz ruffled Amity’s hair, and unlike with her siblings, Amity didn’t mind. It was actually pretty relaxing when Luz did it.
  “By the way, I was wrong. This is actually totally my hair clip.” 
Luz grinned sheepishly as she put the small clip in her hair above her right eye. She was still 100% sure it wasn’t actually her hair clip, but thinking about how Amity was now so far from home not only because of something as silly as a hair clip,  but because of a hair clip that didn’t even belong to Luz,  made her feel really guilty, so of course she was going to wear it.
  Also, the fact that Amity had followed her at all because of something like that was adorable and Luz wanted to treasure the memory of it forever.
  “You’re a dork, Luz.” The green-haired witch chuckled a bit. ‘But you’re my dork,’ she added in her head.
  “Maybe so. But it looks like you’re stuck with this dork for a little longer, huh? Too bad. I knew you just couldn’t wait to get rid of me.”
  Luz winked at her. 
  Amity giggled.
   “Oh no, the horror!” 
   That Amity was able to laugh at all in the current situation was honestly amazing, and it just made her love Luz even more.
  ...it had taken the green-haired witch until that moment to remember the explosion had screwed up her confession.
  She sighed.
   ‘This has to be some kind of record for the universe’s worst timing.’ 
  She was still going to tell Luz how she felt about her... but not right now. 
  Her heart wouldn’t be in it when all she could think about was how their friends and her siblings were in danger and maybe injured, and how she couldn’t get home anymore. She needed a bit of time to process everything before she could even think about saying anything romantic again.
  “...you don’t happen to have your scroll with you, do you?” Luz asked all of a sudden.
  Amity thought for a moment.
  “I... I think I do, actually. Hang on.” She rummaged through her pockets until she pulled out the scroll. “Why?”
  “I’m just thinking... if my phone worked in your realm, this might work in ours? I’m not sure, but it can’t hurt to try, right?”
  Luz gave her a small, encouraging smile.
“Hmmm...” Amity opened it, and while everything took ages to load –  stars, the connection here was terrible  –, Luz actually turned out to be right. It did work. “Nice work, Luz. I’m going to send everyone a message, maybe we can figure out what happened that way!”
  Luz hadn’t expected this to actually work... but that it did... maybe that meant something? Maybe there was magic in this world, after all, even if it wasn’t a lot. 
   ‘This is really exciting!’ 
  She should try casting a spell or two when they were somewhere they could be certain nobody was watching them.
  Amity was meanwhile busy sending the same message to Gus, Willow and both of her siblings. 
  That this worked here would come in really handy.
   ‘I’m with Luz. We’re okay, but the door’s gone, so now I can’t come back. What happened?’ 
  She didn’t get an immediate reply from anyone.
  “Whatever happened probably has them busy...”
  Amity was still worried, and that they didn’t immediately write back didn’t make it any better, but there wasn’t exactly anything she could do about it, and staring at the scroll all day wouldn’t help... so she put it back into her pocket. It would inform her if – when – she got a reply from anyone. In the meantime, there was nothing they could do.
  Suddenly, Luz’s phone buzzed in her pocket – thankfully, except for a small crack at the top of the screen, it had survived the fall undamaged.
  Luz unlocked it. It was a text from her mom. 
  She looked at the text, then at the time, and panicked.
   ‘Can’t wait to see you again!’ 
  “Oh gosh I forgot I was supposed to be home in a couple of minutes!” The last twenty minutes had gone by in a blur, she’d lost track of time completely and had also just... of gotten that she was supposed to be going home at all for a moment. And despite the fact that they had deliberately sent her back a little earlier than necessary in case she’d be held up by anything, she was now slowly running out of time. “Mom’s going to be so worried if I’m late, and she’s going to start questioning where I was if I don’t get home when the bus does!” She got up off the ground and offered Amity her hand to help her up as well. “Come on, we have to go!”
  Amity stared at Luz’s hand in confusion for a couple of seconds.
  “We?”
  “Well, yeah! I’m not just going to leave you here! We’ll just- oh, I know! We’ll tell her that you’re a friend I met at camp, and ask her if you can stay for a sleepover! Someone will probably have replied until tomorrow, and then we’ll see what we can do to get you back home.“
  Luz’s never ending enthusiasm and optimism never failed to make Amity smile. There was something about Luz that said ‘We can do this!’ even in the most hopeless of situations, and that was just one of the things that Amity loved her so much for.
  “I... I don’t know. Isn’t this kind is short notice?”
  The green-haired witch rubbed the back of her neck. She was insanely nervous about meeting Luz‘s mom.
   ‘What if she doesn’t like me? What if she hates me? What if she forbids me from ever seeing Luz again, and then we have to hide our relationship from both of our parents and sneak around constantly and-’ 
  Luz interrupted her friend’s panic by putting a hand on her shoulder.
  “I don’t think she’ll mind. I never have friends over. If anything, she’s probably going to be super thrilled to meet you!” Luz smiled at Amity as she went to pick up her bag from the ground... Then she froze. “We have to do something about your ears.”
  How had she just completely forgotten about that?
  The green-haired witch crossed her arms.
  “What’s wrong with my ears?”
  “Nothing! I think you have very cute ears!” Amity blushed. Stars, everything Luz was saying today was making Amity’s heart flutter – even more than usually. “But humans don’t have pointy ears, so it’s best if nobody sees them.” Luz started rummaging through her bag until she pulled out a black beanie. “Here, that should work.”
  She handed it to Amity.
  “Huh. Thanks.” 
  Luz stared at Amity a little after she put the beanie on. 
   ‘Wow.’ 
  She looked so good with it.
  “...okay, you’re keeping that one, you look way too cute in it for me to ever want it back.” 
  Amity blushed even harder. She wasn’t sure if she’d still be alive to return home the next day if Luz kept this up.
  “I’m... thank you...”
  “Just stating the truth.” 
  Luz winked at her.
  Okay, this was it. Amity was dying. She was officially dying. 
  “Now come on, we have to get going.”
  Amity cleared her throat.
  “Yeah. Okay. Lead the way.”
  The only problem was that Luz couldn’t really remember which way exactly they had to go. She roughly knew the direction her house was probably in, but she hadn’t really paid much attention to which way she was going when she’d first followed Owlbert there. 
  That, and she was a bit distracted because of everything that had just happened – and she was also worried about Amity.
The green-haired witch had borrowed one of Luz’s shirts since the explosion had burnt away part of the clothing on her back, and explaining  that  to Camilia would have been difficult... and while Luz hadn’t actually seen her back when she’d changed, she was pretty sure Amity was hurt.
  She was doing a terrible job at hiding it, too – Luz caught her friend wincing every now and again as they walked.
  “Are you sure you’re okay?”
  Amity crossed her arms and looked away.
  “Fine. Really. Just really worried.”
  She still didn’t want Luz to worry about her. They had more important things to worry about than Amity’s minor injuries. And at least she was able to walk mostly steadily now, so it couldn’t be that bad anyway.
  Luz sighed.
  “Alright, whatever you say.” 
  Her tone made it pretty clear that she wasn’t thrilled. 
  She looked around. They were finally out of the woods now, but Luz had missed the street she lived in by a few turns. At least she knew how to get home from here. 
  “Okay, now we have to go that way.”
  She pointed at the small coffee shop across the street. From there, it was just a left turn and a couple of minutes of walking to her house.
  Amity nodded.
  “Got it.”
  She immediately walked the way Luz had pointed – slightly confused by the small step and the sudden change of pavement, but since she didn’t want to look stupid in front of Luz, she didn’t comment on it.
  “You know you don’t have to lie to me, right?”
  Luz sounded so hurt. 
  Amity’s face fell.
  Oh no. She hadn’t meant to... 
  Luz wasn’t even looking at her, instead looking left, then right, then left again... anywhere but at Amity. She wasn’t even walking next to her anymore, but had instead stopped right before the small step. 
  That wasn’t a good sign. Was she that mad at her? 
  Oh no...
  “Luz, I’m-”
  Luz was still standing at the side of the road, looking left and right to make sure there was no traffic before crossing. There was a car approaching, and it was already too close for them to cross before it reached them, but no traffic aside from that. They’d wait and cross the street after it passed by.
  She lifted her head and had a small heart attack when she saw Amity standing in the middle of the road.
  “Amity, watch out!”
  It was mostly dumb luck combined with inhuman speed that Luz was able to pull Amity out of the way of the fast approaching car she‘d just walked in front of before it hit her.
  The person behind the wheel just honked and cursed angrily, not even stopping to check if they’d hurt anyone.
  The two girls were both back on the sidewalk now, Amity still frozen in Luz’s arms the same way she had been since Luz had pulled her off the street. 
  The human girl was shakily clinging to Amity – who was startled, but mostly just confused.
  Luz touching Amity’s back also hurt a little, but she was enjoying being hugged by her way too much to complain about that.
“What  was  that?”
  That thing hadn’t looked particularly dangerous – it had no teeth, its’ eyes weren’t glowing and it didn’t even follow them when Luz had pulled Amity away from it – but whatever it was had really scared Luz. Was it some kind of monster? Should they have fought it?
  “You can’t just walk onto the street like that without making sure there’s no traffic!  What were you thinking?! ”
  Luz was freaking out, her heart beating rapidly out of her chest as she tried and failed to calm her breathing.
  ‘Amity almost got hit by a car. Oh god. Oh god. Oh god.’
  Amity rubbed the back of her neck and smiled sheepishly.
  “...yeah, I have no idea what either of these things are.” What made the situation even more confusing to Amity was that there were multiple similar monsters standing around them that she now noticed, but neither of them was moving, and Luz wasn’t freaking out about them. Why was that? What was going on here?
  Luz still refused to let go of her, so Amity just went with it put her arms around Luz as well, hoping to calm her down a little. 
  She really wanted to ask about the monster, but it felt kind of insensitive to do with how shaken Luz was. 
  “I... I’m sorry I scared you.”
  Luz just hugged her tighter and started sobbing.
  “You didn’t- I’m- Amity, you could have gotten really hurt. God, you could’ve died. I... of course you don’t know what cars or streets are, I’m... We’ve barely been here for half an hour and you already almost... I’m so sorry. I’m horrible at looking out for you.”
   ‘This was my fault. If anything had happened to Amity...’ 
  The thought of not seeing her for a couple of months had been enough to make her feel like she couldn’t breathe. Losing Amity forever was completely unthinkable.
  “Hey... hey, no, it’s okay, I should have... I’ve never been here before. I should have known I need to be more careful and paid more attention to what you were doing.” Luz crying was very high up on the list of things Amity couldn’t take. Seeing her crush so upset really, really hurt, and knowing that it was her fault that Luz was crying made it infinitely worse. “It wasn’t your fault, Luz.”
  “Yes it was!” Luz protested immediately.
  She couldn’t stop shaking.
  “No.” Amity hugged her tightly. “I was the one that wasn’t being careful. But I’m okay – all thanks to you. You have nothing to feel guilty about.”
  Amity rubbed her friend’s back gently, and Luz buried her head in Amity’s shoulder.
  “I’m sorry, I just... I need a minute.”
  Amity felt awful. She was mostly okay with the almost dying part – especially since nothing had actually happened, and she hadn’t really known what was going on when it happened anyway, (and honestly she still didn’t)  –, but the fact that she’d made Luz cry? 
  That killed her.
  “Shhhh. It’s okay. It’s okay. I’m right here.”
  The human girl didn’t even reply. She just hugged her tighter.
  A few minutes passed until Luz moved again. She let go of Amity reluctantly and stared off into space for a couple more seconds after that, still shuddering at the memory and trying to shake the thought of what could have happened if she’d reacted a couple seconds too slow.
  Amity ruffled her hair.
  “Are you feeling a bit better?”
  The human girl shook her head.
  “Not really... but we’ll be late if we don’t get going right now.” Luz wiped her tears away and reached for Amity’s hand. “Mind if I-”
  “Not at all.”
  The green-haired girl intertwined her fingers with Luz’s trembling ones, and slowly, the shaking subsided a little.
  Luz was still freaked out, but holding hands with Amity felt nice, and it calmed her down a little. It reminded her that Amity was still there, that she was okay, that nothing had happened to her.
  They walked the rest of the way like that in silence, and neither of them let go again until they reached their destination.
  “Here we are. Home sweet home.”
There was something that made Luz weirdly happy about seeing the small house with its blue roof and white fence. It had been her safe haven for years, and even though it didn’t quite feel like ‘home’  anymore – she imagined nothing could ever feel as much like home to her as the Boiling Isles did, because there, she felt like she actually  belonged, which she never had in the human realm –, there was still comfort in the wonderful familiarity of it all.
  She couldn’t wait to get to her room and open her computer to see if any of her favorite fanfics had updated.
  Speaking of her room – she’d get to show Amity her room! 
  Luz was weirdly excited about that. 
  She still hadn’t really processed what had happened earlier – truth be told, she was pretty sure that moment with Amity and the car would probably be haunting her nightmares for a while –, but... they’d made it back to Luz‘s home. Amity was safe now. And Luz would make sure that nothing in this realm would ever threaten to hurt her friend again.
  ‘We can listen to my favorite songs together and maybe cuddle and watch a movie, and – oh, oh, maybe we could read a fanfic together and do voices? Eeeek, we’re going to have so much fun together!’
  Maybe that was selfish, but a part of her was a little happy about whatever was going on with the door because it meant she’d get to spend an extra day with Amity before they’d figure out how to get her home tomorrow. 
  It distracted Luz a bit from how much she missed the others – that, and she also just loved spending time with Amity.
  There were a lot more things in the human world that Luz would have liked to show Amity – too many to fit in a single day –, but they’d make the most of the time they had, and maybe Amity could come visit this place again for a couple of days during the next school vacations so they could do more stuff.
  When Luz turned to Amity, her friend was still staring at the house.
  “It’s not quite Blight Manor, huh?”
  Luz rubbed the back of her neck and smiled sheepishly. Sometimes she forgot how rich Amity’s parents were, and how underwhelming something as small as this had to be to her in comparison to the huge building she lived in.
  “Exactly.” Amity beamed at Luz. “It looks really cozy. It’s perfect.”
  Luz squeezed her hand and smiled.
  “You really think so?”
  “Yeah. It’s lovely.” The house was really charming, and that it didn’t remind her of her own home in the slightest was the greatest thing in the world. A lot of times, Amity had felt locked up at home with the high, thick walls... and she’d built very similar walls to the ones of Blight Manor around her heart after her parents had forced her to end her friendship with Willow. And there, in the middle of the walls, Amity had been sitting for the last several years, and hadn’t let anyone get close to her again – locked up in a literal castle as well as one of her own construction, like a princess waiting for a knight in shining armor to come rescue her. Luz was less shining armor and more otter suits and weirdly cute tutu-tuxedo-combinations... And she was also exactly what Amity had needed to tear down her own walls and finally allow someone get close to her again. Luz really was Amity’s ‘fearless champion’ – in more ways than the human girl probably realized. “We should get one of these somewhere on the Boiling Isles when we’re older.”
  It took Amity a moment to realize she’d just said ‘we’ – then she panicked, her face losing a bit of color.
Thankfully, however, Luz didn’t seem to notice it – and even if she  had, there was something else that required her full attention a few seconds later, making her forget everything else that might or might not have been through her head previously.
  Her mom had stepped out of the house and spotted her.
  “Mom!”
  Luz wasn’t even sure what got into her, but she started running towards her and threw herself around her mother’s neck.
  “Mija!” Camilia caught her daughter, chuckled and then hugged her tightly.
  “Mom... I... I missed you so much.”
  Gosh, she hadn’t even realized how much she’d been longing for a hug from her mom until now. For about a minute, they just stood there embracing each other, neither of them saying a word. 
  Luz sobbed a little.
  “I missed you, too, cariño. How was your trip home? There’s so much I want to ask you. You have to tell me everything.”
  Amity couldn’t help but watch awkwardly from a distance how Luz and her mother hugged happily and then started talking to each other excitedly in a language the green-haired witch didn’t understand.
  She felt a weird pang of pain and guilt in her stomach as she watched the two of them. She couldn’t remember the last time her own parents had looked at her like that...
  Amity felt tears welling up in her eyes. 
  She couldn’t help but feel like she was intruding on something incredibly precious and private – something that should have just been between Luz and her mom.
  She didn’t belong here. She shouldn’t be disturbing them... and yet, here she was, staring at them like an idiot.
        Notes:
          You guuuys, I wasn’t expecting this story to get so much attention I’m crying?All of your feedback was so amazing and motivated me so much, I’ve literally never gotten so much feedback for a single story, you make me so incredibly happy!I’m not even kidding, this motivated so much that I pretty much immediately started writing the second chapter, I hope you enjoyed it!Feedback is still extremely appreciated, I'm going to try to reply to as many of your comments as I can!Also, while I do have a bunch of stuff planned already... if you have any ideas about things you want Luz and Amity to do together while they’re in the human realm, let me know and I might include them!Also also, massive shoutout to GoG_Kudos for writing literally the greatest comments I have ever gotten and making me laugh so much! (Honestly y’all should go read them, they’re amazing.)And just, in general, a huge “thank you” to everyone that’s given me feedback so far, you guys made my day.My plan is to update on Mondays in the future, the first one being the Monday after “Agony Of A Witch”!We’ll be checking in on what’s been going on on the Boiling Isles next chapter, so stay tuned ^^
      Chapter 3: A Crossed Line
        Notes:
          I have a bunch of things to say before this chapter:1. I personally believe more in developing characters than mindlessly hating on them (if there’s any room for development, at least), so this chapter might or might not be building up to something more in the future.2. I’m going to ignore “Agony Of A Witch” going forward to avoid clashing the continuity of the story with that of the show – whether or not I make the big reveal of the last episode a part of the story is yet to be decided, but if I do, it won’t happen the way it did in the show. (The story straying from the show was bound to happen sooner or later, which is why I put the “canon divergence” in as a tag from the very beginning.)3. Have fun with what is basically a full chapter of everyone (but mainly Eda) yelling at Lilith, I have a feeling y’all need it right now ;)
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  After the blast hit the portal and shattered it into a million pieces, Luz’s and Amity’s entire friend group stood frozen in shocked silence for a second.
  Nobody could quite grasp what had just happened.
  Where had that blast even come from?
  For a moment, Eda just focused on using wind magic to lead the smoke out the door. Afterwards, they could all really see the damage that had been done by the blast. And it was major.
  “Well, that door’s busted alright,” Eda stated the obvious after a moment, breaking the silence.
  That almost seemed like an understatement, since the splinters of the door were scattered all across the room, and there was nothing left that would have indicated that the remains had once been a portal to another realm to someone that hadn’t previously known it.
  “Does that... does that mean they can’t come back?”
  King was panicking, holding onto his part of the friendship necklace tightly as he ran up to where the door had been. It couldn’t mean that, right?
  Luz and Amity couldn’t be gone for good...
  The others exchanged a worried look at what King had just said. They’d been too shocked by what had happened to even think about what it could mean before this moment... but now that he mentioned it...
  “Uh oh.”
“Yeah, I’m pretty sure the situation is more severe than just  ‘uh oh’,  Edric,” Emira mumbled.
  She felt numb. 
  This was bad. 
This was really, really,  really  bad. 
  Sure, she liked teasing Amity occasionally – Amity was her little sister, after all –, and she and Edric had taken it too far a bunch of times... but that didn’t mean they didn’t love her.
  Messing with each other was a normal thing all siblings did, but that didn’t mean Emira wasn’t a hundred percent ready to throw hands if anyone hurt Amity or Edric.
  And the thought of Amity being trapped in another realm, maybe forever, scared and possibly hurt... 
  Emira shuddered. Each and every fight they'd ever had was suddenly forgotten for a few seconds, and all she wanted was to hold her little sister in her arms again.
  “Hey, you! Starting fires inside houses can be really dangerous, Hoot Hoot!”
  Hooty had wrapped around someone again, and a few seconds later, he dropped Lilith to the floor of the living room.
  Eda narrowed her eyes to slits.
  “Lilith.”
  “Hello Edalyn.”
  Eda immediately took hold of her staff.
  “We should take this outside.” 
  She didn’t wait for an answer and just blasted her sister backwards out the door again, growling. 
  She didn’t mind meeting Lilith under normal circumstances, especially since most of their fights were of a more friendly nature, but as soon as Luz got involved, the fun ended.
  Lilith had crossed a line this time.
  Willow just stood in the door frame with her mouth agape for a few seconds.
  “...whoa. I don’t think I’ve ever seen her this angry before.”
  “Eda can be terrifying when she wants to be,” King commented as he joined the others to watch the fight.
  Meanwhile, Lilith had picked herself up off the ground and raised her own staff.
  “Why did you do it? What did Luz ever do to you?!” 
  Eda was the only one that at the moment could fully grasp what it meant that the portal was gone, since none of the others really knew how long it had taken her to create this portal in the first place.
  And that Luz wouldn’t be able to come back wasn’t even the worst part of it. 
  Despite the fact that Eda was livid about that, and despite knowing that Luz was going to be crushed to an extent that Eda didn’t even want to think about because if she did, she’d start crying... she knew Luz would have no trouble surviving in the realm she’d grown up in. She wouldn’t be happy, but she’d manage.
  Amity however was a different story.
  Lilith dodged another one of her sister’s blasts as she answered, readying herself to return fire.
  “Belos gave me a choice. He told me to get rid of Luz, one way or another. And I did. Now everyone’s back in the realm they belong in, nobody got hurt and Luz is forever out of danger. It’s best for everyone involved that way.”
  Lilith knew she’d done the right thing. Luz didn’t belong here, and she’d spent the summer almost dying more times than Lilith could count. Life here wasn’t safe for a fragile human like Luz... and being locked out of a realm she didn’t belong in was a fate way better than what the Emperor had had in mind for Luz when he’d first tasked Lilith with taking care of the human girl.
  “Keep telling yourself that, Lily.” Eda glared daggers at her sister. “Oh, and solid job on locking your own protégée out of the Boiling Isles, by the way.”
  “What are you talking about?”
  “Amity went through the door after Luz,” Emira chimed in. Her voice was scarily monotone. “Now she’s trapped on the other side of the portal you just destroyed.”
  A part of Emira still felt numb, unable to grasp entirely what had just happened, and what that meant. But there was rage boiling under the surface of her numbness, and it was just waiting for the right moment to boil over.
  Knowing who was responsible for what had happened made everything so much worse.
  Amity looked up to Lilith in a way she did with nobody else – Lilith was her mentor, her hero, and almost like a mother to her. Knowing that she was the one responsible for locking Amity out of this realm, trapping her far away from the only home she’d ever known, as well as possibly hurting her... that was too much. If Amity ever found out about that, her whole life would fall apart.
  Emira felt sick just thinking about it.
   “What?! ” 
  Lilith was so stunned about what the young witch had just said that she froze where she was standing rather than dodging Eda’s next blast, which as a result sent her flying backwards into a tree.
  “That’s right. Not only did you mess up my kid’s life, you also managed to mess up the one of the kid you’ve been mentoring. Killed two witches with one fire spell, so to say.”
  That was another one of Luz’s weird sayings that Eda had picked up from her human during the last few months for some reason. Humans said weird things, but some of them really stuck with Eda when Luz said them. 
  She was a good kid, and Eda would already have missed her terribly without the added factor of her not being able to return, and it just fueled her anger even more. 
Lilith talking about how righteous everything she did was, and how she just wanted what was best for everyone, usually merely annoyed Eda a bit, but that she was somehow trying to portray this  as  ‘doing the right thing’ was taking it too far.
  Eda had seen the light in Luz’s eyes when she’d cast a spell for the first time. How her face lit up each time she learned a new spell. How she smiled when she could show off what she’d learned to Eda and King and her friends.
Luz had been dreaming of the life she had here for as long as she could remember, and everyone here knew that. She’d worked incredibly hard to get as far as she’d gotten, and  nobody  was allowed to take that away from her.
  By now, the others had come out of the house after Emira, all of them standing with a bit of a distance to Lilith and Eda as they watched the fight.
  ...well, except for the twins, who seemed unbothered by the amount of spells aimed in both directions as they drew closer.
 “Are you happy now?! Do you have any idea how much it would crush Amity to know what you just did?!  Would you even care?!”
  That was it. Emira has officially gone ballistic.
“Nobody is allowed to mess with our little sister except us, got it?!”  Edric growled as he stepped next to his sister, arms crossed.
  Lilith had finally picked her jaw and herself back off the floor, just in time to reflect Eda’s next blast.
  “W-why would Amity do that?”
  She was still in a state of shock, unable to process what she’d just heard.
“Does that matter?!  Do you think you’ll feel any better about what you did if we tell you that?!”
  Edric glared at her.
  “Besides, it’s not like the fact that Amity cares about Luz is some well-kept secret! The entire school knows! Why do you think she was here to say goodbye to her in the first place?!” Willow shouted from behind them.
  She hadn’t wanted to get in the middle of the fight, but she couldn’t stop herself from shouting at Lilith.
  How anyone could be this ignorant and divorced from reality was beyond her.
  “Yeah, what she said!” King added, his tiny fist raised angrily. “If anything happened to them, you will feel my wrath!”
  Edric and Emira shared a glance, then nodded at each other and cast a spell together. A few seconds later, there were multiple versions of them standing around everyone, and each version was staring daggers at Lilith.
  Eda nodded at the teens.
“While I absolutely approve of all the unnecessary effort you two just put into staring my sister down, you kids need to scram.  All of you.  This isn’t your fight, and I don’t need anyone to get caught in the crossfire, got it?”
  Lilith shook her head as she reflected another one of her sister’s blasts back at her.
“This is ridiculous, Edalyn. I’m just here to arrest  you. We both know I’d never hurt any of these kids.”
  “Yeah, you’re right.” Eda said, her voice distant and cold instead of the teasing tone she normally used around Lilith. “Up until a few moments ago, I thought I knew that.”
  “I-”
  Lilith had no reply for that. The words got stuck in her throat, and what was worse was that she couldn’t even blame Eda for what she was saying, knowing what had happened to Amity.
  Lilith had really messed up, and she couldn’t deny that, as much as she wanted to.
  “You’ve gone too far this time, Lily.” Eda reflected the next blast of fire that her sister aimed at her back no problem. Lilith dodged. “How does it feel knowing that? I know you could have found some way to excuse the thing with Luz, but Amity? You know how powerful her parents are. You’ll be in big trouble when Belos hears about this.”
   “Do you think that’s the only thing I care about?!” 
  “Considering you were willing to destroy Luz’s life just because this bonehead told you to? Can you really blame me?!” Eda shot back immediately.
  A part of her wanted to hurt Lilith – really, really hurt her – for what she had just done... but she didn’t. She couldn’t. Even amidst her feelings of pure rage, she couldn’t bring herself to hurt her sister.
  “You don’t understand anything, do you, Edalyn? I was just trying to protect Luz!”
  Lilith hadn’t wanted to accidentally involve Amity in this whole mess – and she’d do anything in her power to get her back to the right realm once she’d returned to the Emperor’s Castle –, but she was still convinced that what she’d done was best for the human girl Eda loved like a daughter.
  “Protect her?! You have got to be kidding me! You’re not even fooling yourself with the nonsense that’s coming out of your mouth right now, are you?!” Upon realizing that Luz’s friends were still standing around them, and that the twins were even actively about to get themselves involved in the fight – Emira especially, that was a witch ready to throw hands if Eda had ever seen one –, Eda shifted her focus to them for a few seconds. “I mean it, kids. Get out of here before you get hurt. King, that includes you.”
  The king of demons raised his voice in protest.
  “But-”
  Eda glared at him, and he went quiet immediately.
  “That wasn’t meant to be a choice! Willow, I’m counting on you to be the sane one, please don’t disappoint me. Get the others out of here.” 
  Willow sighed.
  “You got it.”
  She grabbed hold of Gus, ushered King back inside the Owl House and then went on to figure out which versions of the twins were the real ones, so she could drag them after her as well.
  When she did, she was met with immediate protest.
  “You can’t-”
  “We have to-”
  “Amity needs-”
  Willow was having none of it.
  “The only thing Amity needs right now is you two not accidentally getting yourselves killed. We’ll find a way to get her back. But it won’t help anyone if you two end up dead before we do, got it? I’ve seen Eda fight before. She’s got this, as long as we don’t get in her way.” Willow’s voice was stern, and she wasn’t sure when exactly she’d accidentally become the mom of these older teens, but Eda was right. At least one of them had to be the responsible one. “Now you can either come along willingly or I’ll use my vines to drag you after me. Your choice.”
  “That’s not really a choi-” Edric started, but Willow didn’t even let him finish.
  “The vines it is.”
  Lilith raised her voice again, causing Eda to turn around once more.
  “You’re lucky I didn’t tell anyone your location and just waited for this to happen instead! If any of the other coven members had found Luz, death would have been the merciful option!”
  That got Eda’s attention, alright.
    “WHAT?!”  
  “Belos wants Luz gone, Edalyn. She’s powerful, and because she works with you, he sees her as a threat. If I hadn’t locked her out of this realm, she would’ve been killed by another coven member or captured and tortured. Emperor’s orders.”
  Eda felt sick.
   “She’s just a child!” 
  “Do you think that matters to him?!” Lilith yelled. “I did you a favor by destroying that portal!”
“No. What you really did by doing that was taking the easy way out.” Eda growled. “I can’t believe you’re still willing to work for someone who gives these kinds of orders!  Aren’t you supposed to protect the next generation of witches, you hypocrite?!”
  “I don’t have a choice!” Lilith yelled back at her.
Every word out of her sister’s mouth made Eda angrier. She was willing to face the Emperor himself for daring to mess with her kid, and that her sister was still working under him despite what she’d just told Eda,  and that she was somehow still trying to portray what she had done as something  good  and  right  just made her even angrier.
   “Does telling yourself that make you feel better?!” 
  Lilith reflected another blast, but it was obvious that her head wasn’t really in the fight anymore, and it landed far from where she had aimed it.
  Gus flinched and hid behind Willow when the blast hit a tree a little too close to them for comfort, and it seemed that now, even the twins had understood just how dangerous it could be to get in the way of this fight. 
  Eda and Lilith were arguably the two most powerful witches on the Boiling Isles, after all.
  And finally, the four young witches started moving. 
  They’d all stood there frozen for a few seconds, too shocked to move because of what Lilith had just revealed, but the tree catching fire had snapped them all out of their state of shock immediately.
  They all shared a look, and then they started running. It was really high time to get out of there now.
For a few minutes, all four of them just ran as fast as their legs would carry them, without a set goal except ‘ away from the fight’, until eventually, they stopped to catch their breath.
  “Well that... that was terrifying,” Gus mumbled after breathing in and out for a few seconds.
  The twins exchanged a look.
  Edric whistled.
  “And we thought the sleep spell she did on the Slitherbeast was impressive.”
  “Yeah, she’s really strong,” Willow agreed. “And I get that you two are angry, I really do. So am I. Luz and Amity mean the world to me. But getting caught in the crossfire won’t help get them back.”
  Gus looked up at her. He was a bit at loss with the situation.
  “So... what do we do now? How do we get them back without the portal?”
  Willow thought for a moment.
  “Logically speaking, we can’t get them back onto the Isles if we don’t have a portal for them to step through. Meaning, we either have to find a way to fix the one that Lilith destroyed, which seems... difficult because of how little remains of it... or we have to create a new one.”
  Emira sighed.
  “...and the only one we know that might know how to do that is Eda, who is currently... kind of busy.”
  Willow nodded.
  “We'll meet back at the Owl House tomorrow to discuss our next steps with her. In the meantime, act as if everything's normal. The fewer people know about this, the better. Edric, Emira, can you two cover for Amity for today?”
  The twins nodded.
  “I don’t think that’ll be very hard. If she doesn’t show up to dinner, our parents will probably just assume she fell asleep in the library again.”
  “Good.” There was something unreadable in Willow’s expression. “I... just don’t want her to get in trouble with them.”
  “Don’t worry. We got this. And when push comes to shove... we can always do this.” Edric drew a small blue circle in front of him to create an illusion of Amity, just to make it disappear again a few seconds later. “See?”
  Gus looked a little doubtful about that part of the plan.
  “Don’t you think your parents will notice that’s not actually their daughter?”
  The look on everyone’s faces made him close his mouth again really quickly. Suddenly, the others seemed hell-bent on changing the topic.
  “Sooo... what are you guys doing for the rest of the day?” Edric’s attempt to lighten the mood didn’t really work and just made everyone even more tense. He sighed. “Stars, this is one messed up situation, huh?”
  Willow sighed.
  “Tell me about it. I can’t stop thinking about Luz and Amity on the other side of the portal and what might have happened to them. I just hope they’re not hurt,” she murmured.
  Amity hadn’t been out the door for that long before it combusted, and since she’d closed it, it was hard to tell if she’d still been close enough to it to be hurt by the explosion.
  Willow wasn’t even sure how the door exploding in one realm would affect the other realm, but since it connected the two, it had to exist in both to at least some extent... meaning that the explosion might have – and probably had – effected both sides of the portal. That thought worried her.
  Emira growled.
  “If there’s so much as a scratch on Mittens because of what happened, I’m going to kill Lilith. I don’t care how powerful she thinks she is. If she hurt my little sister, she’ll pay.”
  Edric nodded and clenched his fists.
  “I’m right there with you, Em. She won’t know what hit her.”
  “Like I said, I get it. But I think right now, I think our focus should be more on restoring the portal to save Amity and to make sure Luz can come back here again anytime she wants.”
  Gus sighed and looked at Willow with a mixture of worry and fear in his eyes.
  “Do... do you guys really think we’ll be able to get them back?”
  Willow smiled a little.
  “Of course. We’re stubborn, aren’t we? Especially when it comes to helping our friends. Maybe it’s time for us to solve a problem with a good attitude and a dope music soundtrack in Luz’s name for a change.”
  That lifted the mood a little... until suddenly, Emira’s mind wandered back to the last thing they’d heard before leaving the two adult witches behind, and her expression darkened again.
  “So... who’s going to break it to Amity what the coven she’s wanted to join since she was a little kid is planning to do to the girl she loves if Luz ever returns here?”
  Meanwhile, the fight between the two Clawthorne sisters was drawing to a close. 
  Two more blasts and Eda was finished with her sister. Lilith was tired out, so much that she collapsed to the ground against a tree, unable to try and cast another spell if she’d wanted to. But she didn’t even try.
  They were relatively far away from the Owl House now – Eda had drawn the fight further and further away from her home at every opportunity she’d had to make sure King and Hooty were safe.
  “Edalyn, you have to understand, I was just trying to-”
“What?  Protect her?  Protect me?!”  Eda walked up to her sister and grabbed her by the collar. “Are you still trying to justify what you did?! Luz was never happy at home. But she was happy here. And you took that away from her.  You crushed a young girl’s dream and talk about it like it’s something to be proud of.  And you messed up Amity’s life in the process... the girl you were mentoring, the one that  you  were supposed to protect!” She was shaking with rage, so filled with adrenaline that she didn’t even feel how tired out she herself was. It would catch up to her soon enough... but for now, she was too angry to feel anything else.  “You know nothing about the human realm! Do you have any idea how dangerous it is there for someone like her?! She trusted you!”
  Amity was a good kid. She deserved better than her terrible parents, and she deserved better than a mentor who was careless enough to ruin her life by accident.
  “I-”
  Once again, Lilith’s words got stuck in her throat, and nothing came out.
  But even if it had... her sister didn’t give her a chance to say anything before she interrupted her again.
“No. This time  you’ll  listen,” Eda growled, lifting her sister a bit higher and looking her straight in the eyes. “You always believe you’re doing the right thing, no matter how in the wrong you are. And I’m so incredibly tired of hearing that  over  and  over  and  over again . You’ve been trying to  ‘save’  me for such a long time now. To help me get back on the  ‘right’ track.” There was poison in Eda’s words. Lilith had had her fair share of fights with her sister in the past – both as kids and as adults –, but she couldn’t remember ever seeing Eda that angry before. “Maybe I’m not the one who lost her way, Lily. Maybe I’m the one that still saw clearly after they’d forced you into blind obedience. Maybe that’s why I ran. Maybe I saw what they were doing to you, and when I tried to pull you out of their grasp and failed, I  knew the only thing left for me to do was run. But you never stopped to think about that, did you? You were so busy trying to ‘save’  me that you never considered  you could be the one that needs saving.”  Eda let go of her sister’s collar and dropped her to the ground. When she spoke again, the poison in her words was gone... replaced by the one possible thing that was worse. Disappointment. “You ruined the lives of two kids today.  I hope you’re proud of yourself, Lily.”
  And just like that, Eda was gone, and Lilith was alone in the woods, her surroundings seemingly void of noise except for the cold autumn breeze of the Isles that circulated around her, her sister‘s voice still ringing in her ears.
        Notes:
          I swear, this chapter was always going to be what the content is right now, the new episode just made it that much more satisfying to write xDI was worried you guys might not like this one as much as the last because it’s not focused on Luz and Amity, but since the new episode riled the entire fandom up, this was probably as cathartic to read as it was for me to write 😂Next week, we’re going back to the human realm and Amity will finally meet Camilia! ^^I’m full-on planing to patch up everyone’s broken hearts with the fluffiest Lumity-chapter imaginable after the finale wrecks us all, so you guys can look forward to that ;)Also, eeeeek, the story has reached 1k kudos! Not sure how that happened, but thank you guys so much, I’m in tears, I don’t even know what to say...🥺😭All your comments are so amazing and make me so incredibly happy and motivated, you guys are amazing thank you so much!I hope you enjoyed the chapter, feedback is extremely appreciated!See you on Monday after the season finale!(And yes this is totally on schedule since it’s now been Monday where I live for about twenty minutes😂)
      Chapter 4: Little White Lies
        Notes:
          The chapter is a little late, I’m sorry. I tried finishing it earlier, but it just wouldn’t end, and that’s despite the fact that I moved a couple of scenes that I actually wanted to do in this chapter into the next because it was just getting... way too long.And the chapter is somehow still more than 6k words long 😅😂I hope you guys enjoy it, this one was a lot of fun to write.The next update will be next week on Saturday instead of Monday since 1) I want to move the update day to Saturday now that the show is on hiatus because that’s when the episodes would usually come out, and 2) because I’m going to be pretty busy this week and won’t get to write on this story that much.I hope that’s okay for you guys! And hey, at least you get an extra long chapter as compensation for the longer wait.A huge shoutout to GoG_Kudos who gave me the idea for the toothbrush scene, I had so much fun with that concept, so I especially hope you enjoy this chapter.Also, I personally do not speak Spanish, which is why I’m not going to be using it a huge amount in this story. I do however have a friend, Grinux (you guys should go check out her tumblr, her art is incredible), who is a native speaker and helps me with the translations so I can at least include a bit, so shoutout to her as well!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  It took Luz a couple of minutes of embracing her mother to realize Amity was still standing on the sidewalk, rubbing her left arm awkwardly as she faced the ground.
“I’ll tell you everything inside, okay?” Or, well, Luz would tell her mom everything that she   could   tell her without mentioning the Boiling Isles. Or magic. Or the fact that she never actually went to camp. “But first, there’s someone I’d like you to meet. Be right back.”
  Before her mom could reply, Luz walked up to Amity again.
  “Hey, you com...ming?” Luz faltered when she realized how upset her friend looked. Amity was extremely tense, she didn’t even look up at first when Luz tapped on her shoulder. “...are you okay?”
  She definitely didn’t look okay.
  Amity bit her lip and took a moment to wipe the tears off her cheeks before she lifted her head and faced Luz. 
  Thinking of her own parents stung in the worst possible way. But this wasn’t the time or place to discuss that.
  “Fine! I’m fine.” She rubbed the back of her neck. The first word came out too fast, but the second sentence already sounded a lot more believable. “I just... really want your mom to like me.”
  That wasn’t even a lie. She was really nervous about that. It just wasn’t the whole story
  Luz looked at her friend with sparkling eyes and a smile so bright that it turned Amity’s brain to mush.
  “Awww, Amity, don’t worry about that so much. I know she’ll like you.”
  The green-haired witch was unconvinced. And nervous. Really, really nervous.
  “But what if she doesn’t? What if she hates me?”
  She was freaking out. A lot.
  Luz squeezed her shoulder encouragingly.
  “She’s not going to hate you. But it’s cute that you’re so nervous.”
  That got a blush out of Amity, who then took a moment to clear her throat and close her eyes to take a breath.
  “I...” She sighed. “Okay. I’m coming.”
  She couldn’t avoid this meeting forever, after all... could she?
   ‘Pull yourself together. You can do this. You can do this.   You can do this.  This is just your crush’s mom, and you have to impress her because if you don’t, she’s going to hate you, and then Luz is going to hate you and then you’ll never get to kiss her.   No pressure.’  
  A part of Amity just wanted to turn on her heel and run away... but Luz was looking at her so expectantly and Amity didn’t want to disappoint her crush – that, and Amity was pretty sure she’d actually get eaten by one of these human realm monsters she knew nothing about this time if she actually ran.
  The green-haired witch was completely lost in her thoughts as she moved towards the house, not paying the slightest bit of attention to anything else because she was so nervous... and then she tripped.
  That she didn’t fall was mostly due to Luz’s quick reaction, who was able to catch her just in time.
  “Huh, and I thought I was the klutz in this friendship,” Luz joked as she let go of Amity after the green-haired witch had managed to steady herself again. ‘Whew, that was a little too close for comfort.’
  Amity just stood frozen in place for a moment and didn’t say a word.
  She would have been more excited about Luz holding her for a few seconds if she hadn’t been so mortified about the fact that Luz’s mom had just seen... all that.
  ‘Oh stars, she’s going to hate me. She’s going to hate me. She probably already hates me!’
  Amity couldn’t remember ever being this nervous about anything in her entire life. 
  Why was she so good at embarrassing herself in front of people when it really mattered?
  Luz smiled at her mom when she and Amity walked up to her.
  Camilia looked at them in surprise and a tad bit of confusion as she waved slightly. She’d hoped Luz would make some friends at camp, but she hadn’t expected her daughter to bring one home...
  Still, her Luz’s happy enthusiasm as she introduced her friend made her mother smile.
  “Mom, this is my friend Amity. Amity, this is my mom, Camilia.”
  Luz looked from Amity to her mom and then back at Amity, and then waited for either of them to speak up in response.
  “Hi!” Amity’s voice was way too high-pitched, and she gave Camilia the most forced, unnatural grin imaginable. She stayed frozen like that for a couple of seconds, not sure if anyone was expecting her to say anything else. Then she spoke up again. “I’m Amity!”
  Amity’s voice got even squeakier by the second sentence. Then she remembered that Luz had already introduced her and just wished for the ground to open up beneath her and swallow her whole.
  “Nice to meet you?”
  Camilia raised an eyebrow, a little bit amused by how nervous the green-haired girl obviously was.
Luz put a hand around her friend’s waist to calm her down... and it did, but Amity was also struggling not to flinch because Luz’s arm was touching her back. She wasn’t sure when it had started to hurt   this much,   but she put on a brave face and went back to trying not to embarrass herself in front of Luz’s mom even more than she already had.
  “Nice to meet you, too!”
  Amity said it too fast again and continued to give Camilia that forced grin.
  “I met her at camp.” Luz smiled at Amity and then looked at Camilia as she continued, “I know it’s short notice, but... can she stay here tonight?”
  Camilia blinked in surprise.
  “Luz-”
  Her daughter didn’t let her finish.
  “Before you say no... there’s actually a pretty good reason why it would be... kinda great if she could stay here tonight.”
  “Oh?”
  Amity was just as surprised as Camilia was. Sure, Luz had gone over some of the basics with her, like what exactly the camp was that they’d supposedly been at... but she couldn’t remember Luz ever mentioning anything about a reason for the last-minute sleepover.
  “I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but Amity kind of... doesn’t have any luggage with her. Well, there’s a reason for that.” Luz wasn’t sure when exactly she had come up with the story, but she was rolling with it now. “Amity’s suitcase was stolen earlier. We don’t know exactly when it happened, but at some point during the drive home, we both took a short nap, and when we woke up again, it was gone. Just like that. The worst thing about that is probably that her plane ticket was in there, so now she can’t get home. The only thing she still has with her is her phone because that was in her pocket, but she hasn’t been able to reach her parents yet.”
  Amity didn’t know what more than half of these things were, but she just went along with what Luz was saying and nodded whenever she felt it was appropriate.
  “Sounds like you’ve had quite the day, huh?” Camilia gave Amity a warm smile. No wonder the poor girl was so tense. She probably would have been okay with Amity staying the night either way despite the short notice, as long as her parents were, but she definitely wouldn’t say no now. “A warning would be nice next time, but of course she can stay here tonight. Just keep trying to reach your parents, okay, Amity?”
  Amity just nodded shyly and prayed to the titan silently that her parents would never find out about what had happened. She’d be in big trouble if they did...
  “You’re the best.”
  Luz hugged her mom again. Camilia smiled as she hugged her daughter back.
  “Alright, now come on in, you two. And Amity... don’t worry, I promise I don’t bite.”
  Amity looked at Luz in horror as they followed her mother inside.
  “That’s a thing here?”
  She had a hard time keeping her voice down because of how freaked out she was.
  Luz could barely keep herself from laughing out loud.
  “No, it’s not. It’s just a saying,” she whispered. “Believe me, if we had any greeting ritual that involved biting, I would have given you a warning.”
  Amity exhaled loudly and relaxed a little as they stepped inside.
  The house was nice. There were a lot of things missing that she would have expected from a Boiling Isles-home, and something inside her ached at the lack of magic... but it was comfy and cute and she liked it. It also smelled really nice, and Amity felt her mouth water.
  It smelled unlike any food she’d ever tasted, but it smelled good, and she heard her stomach rumble at the prospect of food.
  Luz elbowed her friend.
  “Sounds like someone’s hungry.”
  Amity crosses her arms.
“Well, yeah. Can you blame me? I mean, it’s not my fault   someone   decided to steal my lunch.”
  That ‘someone’ was actually Luz, and she hadn’t really stolen it – they’d shared –, but Camilia of course assumed Amity was referring to her stolen bag.
  “Since Luz didn’t warn me she would bring someone, I only bought food for two people, but I’m sure we’ll find something for you to eat. What do you like to eat?”
  “I-”
  Amity froze. She didn’t know any of the food they ate here, so whatever she answered, it wouldn’t end well.
  “Actually... she can have part of what you got for me, I’m not that hungry anyway,” Luz interrupted them and smiled at Amity as they stepped into the dining room. She could already tell what her mom had bought from the smell alone. “Sit down, yeah? I’ll go get a knife to cut the sandwich and an extra plate.”
  “...okay.”
  Amity sat down at the table and stared at the food. It looked as good as it smelled, but as nice as the house looked, she still felt like an intruder. She stayed mostly silent until Luz returned with the third plate and the knife and sat down in between Amity and her mom.
  The human girl then cut her sandwich in half and put one of the halves on the new plate.
  “Here you go!” Luz set the plate down in front of Amity and lowered her voice a bit as she added, “I know it’s not the kind of food you usually eat, but... I hope you’ll like it anyway.”
“Thanks. And I’m sure I will.” She smiled shyly in the direction of Luz and her mom as she bit into the sandwich for the first time.   ‘Titan, this is amazing.’ 
  Amity ate her half of the sandwich mostly in silence – and whatever it was that was in this, it tasted amazing and Amity needed more of it at some point in the future –, until eventually, it was all gone, and she wasn’t hungry anymore.
  Luz in the other hand was very, very occupied with talking to her mother and barely focused on the food at all, despite enjoying it a lot. The conversation went... surprisingly well, and there wasn’t a single instance where her mother seemed to doubt that she’d actually been at camp.
  At least partly, this was probably due to the fact that Luz had actually bothered to look up what she’d have learned at camp if she’d actually gone there, and she’d spent her last two weeks on the Boiling Isles studying the basics so her mom wouldn’t get suspicious. 
  Because of that, she also knew which pictures she could and which pictures she couldn’t show to her mom – she’d even made a specific folder to that. 
  Over her glorious years of making amvs, Luz had eventually gotten pretty decent at editing, and she wasn’t so bad at photoshopping either, so now she had a bunch of pictures of her and her friends in ‘camp’ that she could show to her mom.
  Since she’d edited the pictures so that the ears of her friends looked human, she could stay relatively close to the truth and actually talk about the friends she’d really made over the summer instead of just making something up entirely.
  (Gus had been really excited about the edited pictures where he looked human and had immediately created copies of them so he could put them up on his wall.)
  She didn’t show her mom a single photo from school, for obvious reasons –  sure, there were buildings on the camp grounds there, but they were of course way smaller than Hexside, and also... less weird. Luz trusted herself to edit out at least some of the weirdness from the pictures, but there was so much at Hexside that that seemed pretty much impossible.
  Luz had made sure to take some photos outside and in the woods that surrounded the Owl House to make it look like the camp was, well, actually a camp – but she’d also sprinkled in as many of the regular photos she’d taken over the summer, provided she’d been able to make them look more ‘normal’ relatively easily.
  “That’s Gus, this is Willow and look, here’s one with Amity!”
  Camilia was pleasantly surprised.
  “Wow, that’s... you really made a lot of friends there, didn’t you?”
  Luz nodded and smiled.
  “They’re all really amazing...” She sighed. “It hasn’t even been a day and I miss them already.”
  “You have their numbers, right? Even if they don’t live anywhere close, that means you can still write them and call them anytime you want,” Camilia said, in an attempt to cheer her daughter up a little. “Just like we did all summer, with the texts and the letters.”
  There was an alarm bell that went off inside Luz’s head at the word ‘letters’, but she just kind of shrugged it off. Her mom was probably just getting something mixed up. She hadn’t sent any letters, after all.
  “Yeah. I guess. But that’s not the same. I can’t exactly hug anyone through the phone... I wouldn’t have missed hugging you all summer if I could, after all.”
  “Oh mija, you’re going to make me cry.” 
  Camilia pulled her daughter into another hug. Oh, how she’d missed Luz. 
  Guilt about her decision to send her daughter to camp had been eating away at Camilia for the past three months, and even when Luz had told her that she was having fun at camp, there had always been a flicker of doubt in the back of Camilia’s mind that her daughter was just telling her what she wanted to hear... but Luz looked genuinely happy in the pictures. Camilia hadn’t seen her child this happy for as long as she could remember, and Luz’s bright smiles in the different pictures warmed her mother’s heart.
  Camilia wanted her daughter to be happy. She really did. And it wasn’t like she’d really wanted to change who Luz was as a person by sending her to camp – she was just... worried. Worried that one day, Luz’s impulsiveness would get her into a lot of trouble and lead to herself or someone else getting severely hurt.
  Camilia couldn’t bear thinking about that. Luz was all the world to her mother. If anything had happened to her...
  She shuddered.
For what it was worth, something about Luz   did   seem different now that she was back – although how much exactly she had changed was hard to tell since she’d only been back for such a short time. She was definitely still Luz, but she seemed... a little more grown up.
  Maybe the last couple of months had been exactly what she needed.
  The other teens on the pictures looked nice, too, and Luz had a lot of good things to say about most of them that drew really sympathetic pictures of them. Apparently Luz had even befriended one of the chaperones, who sounded like she was an interesting person from the way Luz described her.
  All in all, Camilia got the impression that Luz had learned a lot, made a bunch of friends and become happier over the summer. That was everything that Camilia had wished for and so much more.
  “It sounds like you’ve had a great summer.”
  Luz beamed.
  “I really had.” 
  She scrolled through more of the photos and showed her mom pictures of herself with the troublemakers and her best friends and Eda.
  Luz felt happy when looking at the pictures and showing them to her mom, but that wasn’t all she felt. 
  Slowly but steadily, more and more guilt was creeping into the back of Luz’s mind, and it got worse with every little harmless lie that she told. 
  Maybe lying to her mom about so many things was bad... but she and Amity couldn’t exactly tell Camilia what really happened, could they? 
  Luz was still planning to tell her mother about everything eventually – but not yet. She was still too afraid of her mother forbidding her from ever going back to the Boiling Isles when she found out the truth, and Luz also didn’t want to get into a fight with her mom so shortly after she’d gotten back – especially not with Amity around to see it. 
  Luz didn’t want her friend to witness that, especially not because it was possible for Amity to get caught in the crossfire, despite none of this being her fault.
  Amity remained mostly silent while Luz was talking to her mother. Even after the green-haired witch had finished her meal, she just glanced at the photos every now and again and answered questions when she was directly spoken to rather than initiating a conversation herself. Her answers were usually as short as possible because she didn’t want to say anything that might accidentally give away that what Luz was telling her mother was at least partly made up... and Amity also figured the less she spoke, the less she could seem like an idiot from her answers.
  At least she didn’t feel like Camilia hated her, which was definitely worth something, but a lot of times Amity still felt too nervous to speak because she was so afraid of saying something wrong and making Luz’s mom hate her after all.
  Aside from the bit of conversation Amity heard and actively participated in, she spent the time glancing around the room – she spotted some really adorable photos of Luz as a child which held her attention prisoner for a while, and afterwards, she spent a lot of time looking at different kinds of strange devices and thinking about what they might be for.
  Most of her guesses were probably complete nonsense, but it helped her pass the time and not focus on how hard it was for her to watch how genuinely Camilia cared about her daughter when Amity herself hadn’t felt like her parents cared about anything but her success in years. Sometimes she felt like she was less like a daughter to them than an achievement they could show off to their friends. The thought made her feel sick, and for some reason, no matter how hard she tried, she never quite seemed to escape it.
  Luz didn’t miss the fact that her friend was upset for very long.
  “Hey mom... is it okay if we continue this some other time?” 
  Luz glanced at Amity, and her mother nodded.
  “Of course.”
  Camilia had tried her best to include Luz’s friend in the conversation, but it was obvious enough that Amity’s mind was elsewhere.
  It was clear she was tense from the way she was sitting, and Camilia hadn’t missed that the girl looked upset. Giving Amity and Luz some alone time was probably the best the adult could do for them right now.
  Luz got up to put the plates into the dishwasher, then tapped on her friend’s shoulder.
  The green-haired witch was having a hard time keeping it together when she lifted her head. Luz offered her a hand.
  “Come on, Amity. Let me show you around.” They’d just left the dining room when Luz came to a sudden halt and looked directly at Amity. “What’s wrong? Did... did I make you feel excluded? I’m sorry...”
  Amity shook her head.
  “It’s not that, it’s-” She sighed. “I don’t really want to talk about it right now. I don’t want to think about it anymore. Is that okay?”
  “Sure.” Luz smiled at her and squeezed her hand. “Just... remember that I’m there for you if you ever do want to talk.”
  “I... I will. And thank you, Luz.”
  Even if she couldn’t always find the words and the strength to talk about everything... that Luz was there to listen if she ever did, meant the world to Amity.
  “Of course. Now come on, I’ll show you around, that should distract you a bit.”
  After a quick tour of the house – humans really had a lot of strange stuff –, Luz lead Amity into her bedroom.
  After the green-haired witch was done gushing about the Azura merch – it took a while for that to happen –, gestured for her friend to sit down on the bed. She did, and Luz sat down next to her.
  “Your room is amazing,” Amity exclaimed, still completely in awe.
  “Awww, thank you.” Luz blushed a bit. “Make yourself at home, okay?”
  Amity nodded and looked around the room, and was really excited to finally ask about some of the things she didn’t recognize and was curious about.
  She picked up something from the nightstand that looked like it was two small knobs on a string and held it towards Luz.
  “What’s this for?”
  Luz smiled when she realized her friend had picked up her headphones.
  “I’ll show you, wait.” She plugged the headphones into her phone and handed them to Amity. “You put them into your ears, like this... and then you just press the ‘play’-button in your cellphone and you’ll hear music. Wanna try?”
  She waited for her friend to nod before she turned on the music.
  Amity yelped and threw the headphones across the room.
  “What kind of human torture device is that?!” she shrieked.
  “They’re just headphones. They’re... for listening to music.” Luz picked them up off the floor and put them on – and then realized why her friend had reacted the way she had. “Oh. Right. I set them to full volume.” She bit her lip and carefully reached out to touch Amity’s ears. “ I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean to... does it hurt very much?”
  “I... ow... a little.” That Amity’s head was still throbbing a bit from earlier wasn’t really helping, either... but at least Luz touching her ears felt nice. “But I’ll be okay. Just don’t make me put these back on again, alright?”
  “Of course. Sorry.” Luz disconnected the headphones and put the phone on the table to play the music through the speaker instead. “Is that okay?”
  Amity closed her eyes for a moment to take the music in, and eventually, she started tapping her fingers to the beat.
  “Oh. Huh. This is... actually kinda nice.” Now that she didn’t feel like the music was out to kill her ears anymore, she found herself liking the sound. It wasn’t the kind of magic music she was used to, but it still sounded pretty good – and the sound almost had its own magic to it, despite technically not being magic at all. But she still didn’t understand why her friend would turn her small music ear thing into a straight up torture device. “Why would you turn the music up so loud that it hurts?”
  Luz had not been expecting that question. 
  She froze for a second, and when she did say something, she said it quietly and in a weirdly uncharacteristic monotone voice.
  “Loud music drowns out the noise in my head when I’m down.”
  Amity rarely ever saw her little ball of light be... anything but that, and despite not knowing what it was that made Luz feel sad, it tugged at Amity’s heartstrings. The green-haired witch put a comforting hand around her friend’s shoulder.
  “...do you wanna talk about it?”
  Luz shook her head.
  “No. Not right now.” The smile she gave Amity now was weak, but at least it seemed genuine again. “But... thank you.”
  Amity smiled at Luz and rubbed her shoulder.
  “Anytime.”
  She would have taken on the world with Luz if it had made her feel at least a little better. 
  Luz was the most amazing person Amity had ever met. She of all people deserved to be happy.
  Luz leaned into Amity’s embrace and let her head sink onto her friend’s shoulder, pushing the upsetting thoughts that explanation had caused to the back of her head as she leaned against Amity, taking in her nice, flowery scent. It relaxed her and made her feel warm inside.
  The two witches sat there like that, unmoving, just listening to the soft, not deafening music for what felt like the world‘s most wonderful eternity.
  After Amity had overcome the first – and second, and third – shock about the fact that Luz was so close to her, the blush slowly vanished from her face, and she was able to breathe properly and just be... comfortable and happy. And it felt great. Holding Luz like that was quite possibly the most amazing feeling imaginable.
  Luz’s gentle hugs and soft touches were something that Amity still wasn’t entirely used to. 
  Physical comfort had never been a huge thing between her and her parents. ...actually, any kind of comfort hadn’t really been her parents’ style. 
  Blights needed to be the best. If they fell, they got up again, steadied themselves and sucked it up. No crying. Not showing any weakness. Ever.
  There was this one event that had been burned into her memory especially well.Amity had fallen off of the slide in their backyard when she was about five. She remembered being in pain, her head spinning and the twins’ blurry faces, and how they’d tried to comfort her and tell her that she’d be okay... and then their mother had come outside and scolded the twins for attempting to calm their younger sibling down.
   “Shoo, you two. Your sister doesn’t need your pity. She’ll take this opportunity to learn that her actions have consequences and that she needs to be more careful in the future. Right, Amity? Now come on, I will take you to a healer. You’ll know better next time.” 
  Amity still shuddered at the memory. 
   ‘What a nice thing to say to a little kid with a bad concussion and a broken arm.’ 
  But Luz was... so different from the people Amity had grown up with. Never too shy to show her she cared.
  She’d held Amity’s hand in the healer’s office after she’d broken her leg and stayed with Amity as long as she was allowed to just to distract her. 
  Every minute she spent with Luz, Amity felt herself falling harder for her friend. And sitting next to her like that... maybe she’d find the courage to actually tell her.
  She closed her eyes for a moment and took a deep breath. Then her hand found Luz’s and she squeezed it slightly.
  “Hey Luz?”
  “Hm?” The human witch lifted her head for what might have been the first time in at least half an hour to look at Amity. “Everything okay?”
  Amity smiled at her shyly.
  “Perfect. More than perfect. There’s just... something I need to talk to you abou-”
  The green-haired witch was interrupted by the door swinging open.
  Camilia was standing in the doorframe, looking at the two of them apologetically, holding some bedding and a bunch of pillows in her arms.
  “Sorry about the interruption, you two. I just thought Amity would need something to sleep in.”
  Amity recoiled, let go of her friend’s hand and moved a bit away from Luz, her face turning beet-red.
  “Hi Ms. Noceda!”
  She grinned awkwardly and waved a bit.
  Camilia raised an eyebrow at her daughter’s friend in amusement, but remained silent.
  Luz, who had somehow managed to miss all of this, got up immediately and took the bedding from her mother. She was in a really good mood after all the cuddling.
  ”Oh, right, almost forgot! Thanks mom.” 
  Seeing Luz so happy made her mother smile.
  “Of course. Do you two need anything else?” Camilia glanced at Amity. “Is she okay? Is there a reason she’s still wearing the beanie?”
  “She’s just a bit cold, I think.” Another white lie. That was okay, right? “I’m going to turn up the heating a bit.”
  “Good call.” The knowing smile her mom gave Luz confused her, a lot, but she just shrugged it off when Camilia continued. “Don’t stay up too long, yeah?”
  “Lo prometo, mami. Actually...” She turned to Amity. “What do you say we get ready for bed? We don’t actually have to sleep yet, but it can’t hurt to change and brush our teeth already, right?”
  Amity nodded.
  “That’s probably a good idea.”
  The only one that actually ended up changing right away was Luz. They picked out some pajamas for Amity, but decided that she should probably brush her teeth before she changed, because walking around the house meant that Camilia could see them, and Amity couldn’t exactly keep wearing the beanie when she was in her pajamas – at least not without Camilia becoming at least a little suspicious.
  After they’d stepped into the bathroom, Luz took about ten minutes to turn it upside down for a toothbrush Amity could use.
  “We should have some spare ones around here somewhere...”
  The human girl rummaged through the small cupboard until she found what she was looking for – an opened package with two out of three toothbrushes still left inside.
  “Here you go, just pick one of these.” She handed Amity the package while the human girl picked up her own electric toothbrush from its stand and put toothpaste on it. “This will taste very weird compared to the stuff you guys have on the Boiling Isles, but I promise, it works all the same.”
  Amity was just about to take a toothbrush out of the package when a weird, threatening noise from next to her made her turn around.
  “Luz! No!” Amity watched with pure horror in her eyes as Luz lifted her toothbrush to her mouth. The green-haired witch immediately dropped everything she was holding, and was barely able to knock the toothbrush out of Luz’s hand before the human girl actually put it inside her mouth. It landed on the floor with a clattering noise. “Good! Now stay away from her!”
  “...huh?”
  Luz was too perplex to actually say anything. She just stared at her empty hand for a few seconds, which was still raised halfway to her mouth.
  Amity placed herself protectively in between Luz and the toothbrush.
  “Careful, Luz. No sudden movements or it will attack.”
  Amity sounded dead serious and extremely worried.
  Luz, who had finally managed to overcome her surprise, raised an eyebrow. She was a bit amused by what was happening, but she was also extremely confused. 
  “Uh... Amity, this is really sweet, but why exactly are you protecting me from my own toothbrush?”
  Amity looked at the toothbrush on the floor, then at her friend, and then back at the toothbrush. How could Luz not see this?
  “It’s clearly possessed! Look at it! It’s vibrating!” Had Amity been too slow? Had the toothbrush already bewitched her friend? ‘Oh no...’
  Luz couldn’t help but laugh.
  “Of course it’s vibrating, that’s the whole point. It’s an electric toothbrush.”
She somehow kept forgetting that there were a bunch of things in the human realm that Amity didn’t know and couldn’t understand which lead to her coming to  very  wrong conclusions.
  “This isn’t funny, Luz.” Amity was freaking out. The toothbrush was still vibrating on the floor and showed no sign of surrender. “Toothbrush demons are dangerous.”
“Toothbrush   what ?” 
  King had told Luz about all kinds of demons during her time on the Boiling Isles, but she couldn’t remember anything about toothbrushes ever being mentioned. And that didn’t sound like the kind of thing she’d forget.
  Amity didn’t reply – instead, she started growling at the toothbrush.
  “Stay away from Luz, you hear me?! I won’t let you hurt her!”
  “Thank god mom’s watching the news downstairs, that would have been hard to explain...” Luz mumbled, extremely amused and also kind of touched.
  There they were, in the middle of the bathroom, Amity standing protectively in front of Luz as she yelled at her toothbrush, and Luz couldn’t help but think this was the most adorable thing she’d ever seen. She felt weirdly happy about Amity trying to protect her, despite the fact that said protection was completely unnecessary in this specific situation. It was very cute.
  Amity was about to cast a spell on the toothbrush, then thankfully thought better of it – Camilia would not have been thrilled about a giant hole in the floor – and just kicked the toothbrush against the bathroom wall. It didn’t put up as much of a fight as she’d expected it to, but she figured it was just trying to hide its true power to trick them and kicked it against the wall a second time, then a third, then a fourth.
  “Die, toothbrush demon! Die!” Eventually, she hit the on/off button with her foot by pure coincidence. “Good! And stay dead!”
  Luz was still chuckling a bit.
  “Amity-”
  But Amity wasn’t listening. She stepped closer to Luz and cupped her face in her hands, examining it.
  “Are you all right? Did the demon hurt you?”
  She wasn’t able to find any injury at the first and second glance, which was a relief, but she was still waiting for Luz’s reply – maybe she’d sustained an injury that Amity just couldn’t see.
  While Amity herself was so occupied with worrying about Luz that she’d failed to notice it so far, Luz had no trouble noticing how close their faces were to each other.
  Amity’s nose was barely an inch away from touching Luz’s own, and Luz felt her heart flutter in her chest at the way her friend gently touched her face.
  The closer Amity got to Luz in order to examine her face, the redder Luz went. She managed to stay cool around Amity most of the time... but right now, her usual calm had gone out the window.
  For a few seconds, all Luz could think about was leaning forward and kissing the girl that she’d just seen shout at a toothbrush a moment ago.
  But she couldn’t just do that, could she?
  “Never better.”
  It might have been Luz’s breath on Amity’s cheek or the fact that her voice seemed a bit louder than usual, Amity couldn’t tell, exactly, but whatever the reason was, the green-haired witch had been snapped out of her worry-trance and had finally realized how close her face was to Luz’s.
  Amity’s face turned even redder than that of her crush currently was – which was really saying something –, and she was so startled that she stumbled backwards and almost fell over. 
  The only reason that she didn’t was that she managed to hold onto the sink just barely.
  “I’m sorry, I got carried away and-”
  Luz reached for her hand.
  “Careful there, please try not to hurt yourself, okay?” Amity intertwined her fingers with Luz’s as her friend helped her steady herself some more. “You’re a but klutzy today, huh? Are you okay? This is already the third time you almost got hurt...”
  Amity sighed.
  “I... don’t know. I’m a bit out of it. I guess we’ve both just had a really long day.”
  “You can say that again.” Luz handed her friend one of the spare toothbrushes from the package Amity had dropped into the sink. “This one doesn’t vibrate, I promise.”
  She then put her own electric toothbrush back onto the shelf and switched to the third one from the package. 
  There was no need to freak Amity out even more today.
  They brushed their teeth next to each other silently, both still with a slight blush on their face, neither of them speaking until eventually, Luz put hers down and cleaned it.
  “Okay, that should be enough. Let’s go back to my room so you can change.”
  She turned to leave the room.
  Amity glared at the toothbrush one more time.
  “I’ve got an eye on you.” As fate would have it, Luz hadn’t placed the toothbrush on the shelf very steadily earlier, which resulted in the damn thing falling down as Luz exited the room. Amity yelped and ran after her friend, suddenly not quite as courageous anymore. “Wait up!”
        Notes:
          I hope you enjoyed this chapter, feedback is extremely appreciated!And I know I’m repeating myself, but once again, a huge, HUGE freaking thank you for everyone that commented on the last chapter. All of your comments are so nice and motivating and I enjoy reading every single one of them. All of you are amazing. Thank you.And also, the amount of attention this story has been getting in general is just absolutely insane. There’s art for it, for crying out loud! For my fic! How did that even happen?! God, you guys are amazing.Here, if you wanna check it out:https://instagram.com/p/CEHWWjYpm92/https://www.instagram.com/p/CEAypYvA6G1/?igshid=hudsxum28l9pSee you guys next week with more Lumity-content that was actually supposed to be in this chapter, but if it had been, the chapter would have been insanely long and also even later than it already is xD
      Chapter 5: There Was Only One Bed (So We Had A Sleepover)
        Notes:
          Once again the chapter is a bit late, mainly due to the same issue that I also had last time – I started writing, and then I kept writing and kept writing and kept writing and it just wouldn’t end XDI hope the extra length makes up for this being a bit late, it’s even longer than the last one somehow xDEnjoy the dumb joke that is this chapter’s title because it’s a fanfic chapter that includes a popular fanfic trope and also features Luz and Amity reading a fanfic xD Disclaimer, since that was criticized in one of my other fics: I try to do proper research when writing about medical topics, but I’m not an expert. If you have a burn injury on your back, especially a severe one, please go see a doctor. Also, just in general, don’t take medical advice from fanfics about Disney cartoons.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  Amity and Luz were back to sitting on Luz’s bed now.
  The human girl was glancing at Willow’s plant absentmindedly, which was sitting directly on the window sill beside them, and that she hadn’t even forgotten to water – she was immensely proud of herself for that –, already missing her friends on the Boiling Isles and wondering what they were up to right now.
  Amity on the other hand had immediately started changing the second they’d gotten back into the bedroom. She couldn’t wait to get into some comfier clothes, and since the door of the room was closed, maybe she could even risk taking the beanie off. She liked how it looked, and she liked even more how it made Luz smile at her, but she was also getting really hot underneath, especially since Luz had turned up the heating in her room.
  Amity changed into the pajama bottoms and folded her own pants neatly and then laid them down beside the bed.
  “Here, let me just...” She tapped Luz’s shoulder to get her to turn around to hand Luz back the shirt she had lent Amity. Luz did turn around – but then she froze and her eyes went wide, not even noticing that Amity was trying to give her something. “Uh, Luz...?” 
  Then Amity realized what her crush was staring at, and it hit the green-haired witch that she’d forgotten about the injury on her back that she hadn’t bothered telling Luz about before. 
  ‘Oops.’
  Luz was frozen in shock for a few seconds before she managed to speak again.
“Amity, you... your back...” This looked bad. This looked really, really,  really painful. ‘Why didn’t you say anything?’
  “Oh. Right. That. I’d forgotten about that already because it barely hurts!”
  Amity immediately put on the pajama top that Luz had lent her, but it was too late now. She’d already seen the injury.
  When Amity looked up again, Luz’s face had lost all of its color.
“It... it doesn’t hurt?” Luz gulped. She felt sick. This was bad. This was  terrible.  “We have to take you to the hospital, immediately.”“I-” Amity cocked her head in confusion. “We have to  what?” Why was Luz freaking out so much? She’d just said she  wasn’t  hurting. That didn’t make any sense. And what even  was  a hospital? “What I said was meant to calm you down. Why isn’t it calming you down?”
  Luz looked at Amity, her eyes filled with a combination of worry and absolute terror.
  “If you’re not feeling pain that means the burn is so bad your nerve ends are damaged.”
  The thought alone had the human girl shaking.
  “...oops. I didn’t know that.” Amity smiled at Luz sheepishly and sighed. There was no use hiding it now, except if she wanted her friend to freak out even more. “Actually, it does hurt. A lot. I just... I didn’t want you to be worried. I shouldn’t even be here in the first place!” Everything was really starting to hit Amity now. She lowered her head and broke down sobbing. “I made everything so much more complicated! I got in the way of your alone time with your mom and intruded on your reunion after you hadn’t seen each other in so long and then I ate half of your dinner and- I’m so sorry, Luz... I’m so sorry I messed everything up by coming after you.”
“Amity...” Luz lifted her friend’s face with her hands and wiped the tears off her cheeks. “Please don’t cry, okay? None of that is true, please don’t say stuff like that.” She hugged her friend carefully, making sure to embrace her shoulders rather than her back in order not to hurt her. “You didn’t mess anything up. I’m actually... really happy I got to spend a bit more time with you. I’ll have the next several months to spend time with my mom, and the thought of being separated from you terrified me... so that we have a bit more time to make some memories before we have to say goodbye for real makes me happy. I was... really worried about you today because you almost got hurt so many times, and now that I know you  are  hurt, I’m even more worried – but today has also been insanely fun, and I’m extremely happy that it happened. That I got to show you my home, and share my favorite food with you, and that you met my mom... and, I’m sorry, but you fighting my toothbrush earlier was the most adorable thing I’ve ever seen.”
  Amity shook her head. How her friend couldn’t take something as dangerous as a toothbrush demon seriously was beyond her... but at least thinking about that helped Amity not focus on being upset for a moment. She just leaned into the embrace silently until she’d calmed down a bit.
  “I still think that thing was possessed,” she mumbled.
  Luz chuckled.
  “I’ll show you how it works tomorrow, I promise.”
  “...okay, now I’m terrified.” Amity cracked a small smile. “I’m... sorry about whatever that just was. My emotions are a bit all over the place at the moment.”
  Luz smiled softly at her friend and hugged Amity one more time before she let go of her to look her in the eyes.
“As someone whose emotions are  always  all over the place and who’s not ashamed of that... it’s fine. Really. And today has been a lot for both of us, so it’s not really that surprising. Can you...” she started reluctantly, “can you show me the injury again?”
  Amity sighed, then nodded as she slowly pulled the shirt over her head to take it off and turned her back towards Luz.
  Luz loudly sucked air in.
  “Does it look as bad as it feels?” Amity asked quietly and bit her lip.
“You know, I’m really glad you lied about not being in pain. That would have been  way  scarier.” Luz gulped. Saying that hadn’t calmed her down even in the slightest. Her hands were trembling. “But it does look bad, yeah. You should probably show that to my mom...”
  Amity looked over her shoulder and blinked at her friend in confusion.
  “Why?”
  “My mom’s a nurse.” Luz would have chuckled a bit at her friend’s confused expression if she hadn’t been as worried as she was. “It’s... our equivalent of a healer, but without the magic aspect.”
  “Ooooh. Now I get it. ...but I really shouldn’t show it to her.“
  “Amity...”
  “No. We can’t do that.” The green-haired witch shook her head. Luz was about to protest when Amity started speaking again. “Luz, how exactly would you explain this to her if we showed her? I don’t know much about camp, but I’m assuming human kids usually don’t come back from it with huge burn injuries across their backs.”
“Maybe not, but...” Luz bit her lip. “Amity, this looks bad. Really, really,  really bad.  If we don’t take care of this properly, the injury could get infected,  and that’s the best case scenario.”
  She didn’t even want to think about all the other things that could go wrong if this wasn’t treated.
  Amity sighed.
“...let me put this differently. If your mom sees this, she’ll probably take me to one of those...  hospitals, was it?” From the context she was given, Amity assumed that the word was probably referring to some kind of medical institution. Luz nodded. “And I’m likely going to be thoroughly examined there, right?”
  The human girl realized where Amity was going with this and gulped.
  “If they realize you’re not human...“ Luz shuddered as she tried her hardest not to imagine what could happen in that case, and failed, miserably. Being dissected like Luz almost had been on her first day at Hexside was one among many equally terrifying possibilities. Amity was right. They couldn’t risk that. And that meant there was no way they could show the injury to Camilia and ask her for help – Luz knew her mom well enough to know that, one, she’d ask a ton of questions that they wouldn’t be able to answer if she saw the injury, and two, she’d definitely want to take Amity to the hospital just to be safe, even in the unlikely case that the injury wasn’t quite as bad as it looked. Luz hanged her head in resignation. “...I hate that you’re right.“
  “Luz, it’s okay. Really. I’m going to be back home tomorrow, and then I’ll go see a healer and have this taken care of. It’s probably going to be a few days of taking it easy for me, but I’m going to be fine.”
  Amity wasn’t thrilled at the prospect of having to spend yet another week on bed rest... but she’d manage.
  “But you’re not fine right now!” Luz protested immediately. “We have to do something.” She got up from the mattress. “I’ll go get my glyphs, and-”
  Amity grabbed her friend’s arm and shook her head vigorously.
“You can’t do that! If your mom saw the injury, that would be one thing, but if she caught you doing  that...”  Amity trailed off, but she didn’t need to finish the sentence for Luz to understand what she meant.
  They’d have enough to explain if Camilia walked in and saw the injury. The last thing they needed was for her to find out about Luz’s ability to do magic on her first day back here.
  Luz sank back onto the mattress in resignation. 
  She knew that Amity was right, and it hurt her, because that also meant that she wouldn’t be able to help her friend as much as she could and should have.
  “A- at least let me patch you up, okay?” 
  The human girl was on the verge of tears.
  “Luz, it’s fine, I mean it.” 
  Amity tried to put a reassuring hand on her friend’s shoulder, but Luz turned away immediately. She wasn’t even able to look Amity in the eyes right now.
  “It’s not fine! It’s anything but fine! This is already the second time you got hurt because of me!”
  “Luz-”
This wasn’t her fault, damn it.  Amity had made that choice to run after her, and neither of them could have predicted the portal going up in flames the way it did. 
  And the stupid Grudgby-injury hadn’t been Luz’s fault either.
  “No!” The human girl started sobbing. “I- I can’t believe you got burnt this badly for a stupid hair clip.”
Amity wanted to scream that  this had never been about the damn hair clip to begin with, but she couldn’t bring herself to do it, so she just pulled Luz close again.
  “It wasn’t your fault.”
  “I should have protected you better...”
  Amity pulled her shaking friend into another hug, and Luz just snuggled against her for a moment to calm herself down.
  “You couldn’t have known. We were both too surprised to act. It wasn’t your fault,” Amity repeated. Her voice was soothing and sweet, and it reached Luz and made her feel a bit better. “And yeah, you can patch me up, as long as it’s in a non-magic way.”
  Luz sat up immediately. She’d be able to do something to help. That was good.
  “Okay. We should have a first-aid-kit in the bathroom somewhere, I’ll go get it. Be right back.”
  “Agh!” 
  Amity had a hard time clenching her fists into the pillow Luz had handed her instead of screaming, but she was trying her best. The last thing they needed right now was for Camilia to come running and see this.
Titan, this hurt  so much.  But Luz was right. She had to clean the wound before this got any worse.“I’m sorry!” Luz was struggling to continue. Her hands were shaking a bit, and she couldn’t help but feel like she was  hurting  Amity, despite knowing deep down that this was what needed to be done to help her. “I’m almost done, I promise.”
  “I- it’s not your fault. I’m... sorry for being such an idiot. I should have just told you right away instead of-“
  Amity clenched her fists so tightly into the pillow that the fabric ripped a bit and still let out a small yelp.
  “I’m so sorry...”
  “Luz...” There were tears running down Amity’s cheeks, but she was trying her best to force a smile. “Please stop apologizing for taking care of me. You’re doing your best.”
  The human girl sighed.
  “I... you’re right, I just... I can’t help but feel like this is all my fault. And seeing you hurt like this- I- I don’t know how to take it.”
  Seeing Amity in pain just about killed Luz. This was too much. 
  Her friend reached out and squeezed her hands.
  “It’s not your fault, Luz.” Amity would keep telling Luz that as many times as she needed to hear it until she finally believed it. “I’m going to be okay. I promise.” There was something about Amity touching her hands like this that made Luz’s heart stop for a few seconds, then flutter right out of her chest. There was something about Amity in general that made Luz feel like she could do just about anything every time her friend smiled at her. “I’ll get a healer to look at this the second I get home, alright? But I trust you, and I know that even if I didn’t get to see a healer anytime soon, you taking care of me would be all I need to get better.”
  “That’s sweet, but you should really get a professional to look at this.” Luz reluctantly let go of Amity’s hands and reached for the washcloth again. “Just hang on a bit longer, I’m almost done, and all that’s left to do afterwards is bandage you up, okay?”
  “...okay.”
  The next few minutes passed by in a blur for Amity. She did her best to ignore the pain and just focus on the fact that Luz was close to her and taking care of her because that thought made her feel all warm and fuzzy inside in the best possible way and helped her get through just about everything.
  While cleaning the wound hurt, Luz wrapping the bandages loosely around Amity’s lower back afterwards actually felt kind of nice. The bandages felt soft against her skin, and Luz’s touch was so incredibly careful and gentle each time, it almost felt magic, even without the use of any actual magic.
  And the painkillers Luz had given Amity also helped her feel better, a lot.
  “There we go. All finished.” Luz smiled at Amity. “You can get dressed again.”
  Amity let out a breath of relief.
  “This feels so much better. Luz, you’re amazing at this...” She was completely enchanted by her crush – well, even more than usually –, and for a few moments, she didn’t even move because she was too busy staring at Luz in amazement. “I had no idea you could do stuff like that.”
  Luz smiled sheepishly.
  “I guess I picked up a thing or two from my mom over the years.”
   ...that, and she was also very dedicated to writing medically accurate sickfics. 
Amity put on the pajama top again, and  titan,  it felt so good to finally be able to move again without her back feeling quite as on fire. Sure, it still hurt, and she still felt stiff, but it was nowhere as bad as it had been.
  “Oh, and I almost forgot to ask, but... do you think I can take the beanie off now? I’m really starting to sweat, and since I usually sleep with my hair down, I think that would at least hide my ears a bit, I hope?”
  Luz nodded.
  “Yeah, I think that should be fine. My mom would start asking questions if she walked in and you were in pajamas but still wearing a-”
  The rest of her sentence got stuck in her throat as her eyes went wide.
  Amity had immediately removed the beanie in relief when Luz had allowed her to, and had then taken out her hair tie. She always felt a little awkward about letting her hair down after wearing parts of it up the entire day. Now, she was occupied with awkwardly trying to put it over her ears a little so that it hid the tips.
  ...and Luz was completely mesmerized. For a moment, her mind went completely blank, the only thing left in there being Amity with her hair down.
  “Amity, te ves preciosa,” she mumbled without thinking.
   “...what?” 
  Amity cocked her head. She had no clue what these words even meant, but there was something about the way Luz had said them that made her heart flutter in her chest.
  Luz blushed like crazy when she realized what she’d just said.
Okay, no need to freak out. She’d  just  called Amity beautiful. Which she was. 
  And Amity... hadn’t even understood it, because Luz’s brain had short-circuited at the view and she had said it in Spanish. 
  The green-haired witch was still looking at her friend in confusion.
  Luz cleared her throat, but when she looked back up at Amity, she immediately lost all her focus again.
“I just... I... wow. You... you look... wow.” Now she was stumbling over her own words. Again. Great. But gosh, she couldn’t help it. Amity was so beautiful.  “I mean, it’s not like you don’t always look good, I just- your hair looks great that way. Amazing, even. I mean-”
  Luz wasn’t sure why, but keeping her cool around Amity didn’t seem to be an option today.
...although honestly, the fact that she  was  usually able to do it was what should have been more surprising. Considering just how cool and amazing and gorgeous Amity was, that anyone who communicated with her didn’t immediately combust out of happiness seemed weird to Luz.
   “Thank you!” 
  Amity’s voice was all squeaky, she was screaming internally and had just decided that she was never ever going to tie her hair back again.
  For a moment, both of them just sat there, blushed and awkward and neither of them really knowing what to say, until finally, Luz’s gaze, that was still awkwardly trying to avoid Amity’s, settled on her laptop.
  She suddenly remembered something she’d wanted to do ever since they’d gotten there, that she’d then forgotten about over cuddling and toothbrush demons and Amity’s injury. 
  Very thankful for the distraction from whatever the hell that had just been, she cleared her throat and started talking again.
  “So... do you want to go to sleep, or...”
  Amity‘s heart rate was finally starting to slow back down to a more normal rate as well, so that was something. She saw the glint in her friend’s eyes. She was curious now. Not sure if she would survive any more Luz today after she’d just called her beautiful, but also morbidly curious.
  “What did you have in mind?”
  Luz’s face lit up.
  “Have you ever heard of fanfics before?”
   “And once again, the dragon had been defeated and the magical world had been saved. The time had come for the heroes of the day to celebrate...” 
  Luz switched from her dramatic narrator voice to Hecate’s as she got back into character – she would have loved to play Azura, but Amity deserved to be special today, and her green hair was too good of a resemblance to pass up on anyway, so that role went to Amity instead. 
   “Good work today. You know, for the second most powerful witch in the realm.” 
  And Amity was nailing her role.
   Azura raised an eyebrow. 
   “Bold words considering they’re coming from the person whose life I saved about ten minutes ago. Or have you forgotten about that already?” 
  They’d been reading for more than two hours now, which had gone by like seconds thanks to how much fun they were having, and were slowly approaching the ending of the story.
“You know me, Az.” Hecate winked at Azura,  causing Amity to blush when Luz did the same.   “I always end up with sudden amnesia after we had a bonding moment.” 
   Azura chuckled. 
   “You’re insufferable.” 
   Hecate just grinned. 
   “I know. It’s one of my best qualities.” 
   Azura shook her head as she moved closer to her friend, looking directly into Hecate’s eyes. 
   “One of these days, I’m going to wipe that smug grin right off your face.” 
   But her friend’s familiar smug grin just became even broader. 
   “I wouldn’t bet on it if I was you.” 
   And then, Hecate leaned forward and kissed Azura. 
Somehow, despite having years and probably thousands of chapters worth of experience,  and despite the fic being tagged as ship,  Luz had not seen this coming.
  And she was also so in-character that she actually leaned forward, and for a second, so did Amity, until their noses touched and the green-haired witch instinctively jumped about two feet backwards, her face bright red.
  Luz blinked for a second, then almost threw her laptop off her bed accidentally because she was so startled.
“...oh god, I forgot this was a ship fic!” She blushed like crazy. “I didn’t mean to... I just got so into the acting and I... I don’t know what came over me. I’m so sorry, Amity.” Gosh, this was awkward. This was really,  really awkward. ‘Someone please kill me.’
  With every passing second, Luz felt herself panicking more.
This was it. Amity was going to hate her forever and everything would be super weird between them. Of course Luz couldn’t have managed another  day  of not messing things up with Amity before they wouldn’t see each other again in months, with no way for Luz to explain herself or make it up to Amity.“It’s fine!”  Amity had that weirdly high-pitched voice from earlier again, and she was talking very fast.  “I think maybe it’s time to go to sleep, I’m tired!”
  At this point, Amity was pretty sure she’d died, ascended to the stars and then been reanimated, just to immediately die again. There was no way she was going to be alive enough to get back home after all this.
   ‘Luz just almost kissed me. Luz just almost kissed me. Luz just-’ 
  “Okay. Let’s just... go to sleep.”
  Luz felt numb as she turned away from Amity and hanged her head. Great. Of course she wanted to go to sleep and not talk to her anymore after that.
  “Luz?” Amity got up carefully. Her happiness vanished instantly at the tone of Luz’s voice. It was unmistakable just how upset she was. “Hey, what’s...” Amity’s voice cracked when she saw how much Luz’s shoulders were shaking. “...wrong?”
  “I’m sorry for being such a weirdo! I can’t believe I just did that! And now I messed everything up between us and-” Luz mumbled.
  Amity didn’t let her finish. She ignored her racing heartbeat as she moved closer to Luz and gently hugged her from behind, placing her head on Luz’s shoulder.
  “You didn’t mess anything up, Luz. It’s okay. Please don’t be upset.”
  Luz gasped at the sudden gentle touch.
  “But...”
“It’s fine, really. I wasn’t expecting it, but I actually think it’s adorable that you got  this  into the role. You have nothing to apologize for. Besides, I also leaned forward a bit, so it’s not like this was all just on you. And...” Amity took a deep breath and braced herself for whatever reaction she might get to what she was about to say next. “I wouldn’t mind you kissing me, you know.”
  Luz blinked and blushed a bit.
  “You mean that?”
  Amity smiled at her friend as she hugged her a little tighter.
  “I do. You’re amazing, Luz. I meant that earlier. Anyone would be lucky to have you as a girlfriend.”
  “Amity, that’s sweet, but...” Luz trailed off.
  Amity would have been crushed if not for the way Luz had just said that. It wasn’t the ‘I don’t like you back’-type of ‘but’ – Luz had said it so absentmindedly that Amity was certain Luz hadn’t understood what she’d meant and that her mind was now elsewhere. The way she was staring off into space supported that thesis.
  Whatever she was thinking of obviously made her upset again.
  Amity sighed as she made peace with not being able to confess today and then let go of Luz to sit down next to her and reach for her hand.
  “Hey, if you want to talk about the reason you’re upset, I’m here. You know that, right?”
  Amity squeezed her friend’s hand.
  Luz was really startled for a moment when Amity’s voice tore her from her thoughts, then she processed what her friend had just said and shook her head.
  “Thanks, but... It’s nothing. I’m fine. Just sad that you’ll be leaving again so soon.”
  The lie came over her lips effortlessly, but despite that, her friend didn’t believe her for a single second.
  Amity hadn’t missed that there was something incredibly different about Luz in this realm. She couldn’t exactly explain what it was, but there was just something about Luz here that made Amity’s heart ache in her chest when she looked at her.
  It was like the spark in her eyes had gone out.
  But if she wasn’t ready to talk about it, Amity wouldn’t force her out of her comfort zone. She couldn’t exactly blame Luz, after all – there were plenty of things Amity herself still wasn’t ready to talk about. The only thing she could do was remind Luz that if she wanted it, Amity was there to offer her support, and even if she wasn’t ready to talk about what was going on, she’d have a shoulder to cry on regardless.
  “Is there anything I can do to make you feel better?”
  Luz sighed and shrugged.
  “Can you just... distract me for a while?”
  This was one of those occasions where she’d usually put on her headphones and turn the music up to full volume to drown out the mean voices in her head. Luz knew that being a weirdo wasn’t a bad thing – she liked herself for who she was and wasn’t ashamed of it –, but that didn’t mean an entire classroom shouting it at her had felt good.
  Except for her mom and her fanfics, she really hadn’t missed this place one bit.
  Amity nodded.
  “Of course. In that case... do you want to finish reading the fic? It’s just two more chapters, after all, and I’m honestly really curious what’s going to happen now.”
  Luz blinked in surprise, then managed a small, sheepish smile.
  “Actually, yeah, I do. No more almost kissing you by accident, I promise.”
  Amity smiled back at her, still getting way too blushed and excited at the memory, as she placed the laptop between them again and clicked on the ‘next chapter’-button – the first kiss that they’d just stopped at had also been the mean cliffhanger ending the author of that story had chosen for this particular chapter.
  “It’s okay, really. Now let’s just get back into character and finish this up before we go to sleep.”
   In the meantime, night had fallen on the Boiling Isles. While most witches, monsters, demons and everything in  between were already asleep or at the very least home from work, Lilith Clawthorne was still busy reporting the events of the day to no other than the Emperor himself.
  “Excellent work, Lilith.” The Emperor‘s voice still gave the younger witch chills, despite having spent years serving in the Emperor’s Coven by now. And even when she only heard him through the crystal ball rather than being with him in person, like it was the case right now, his voice was no less intimidating. “I’m actually a bit impressed. After you continuously failed to capture the Owl Lady in the past, I was starting to think that maybe, you were becoming... soft. That you were protecting her because of your past.”
  Lilith felt herself tense a little. Thankfully, the room was just dark enough and her clothes were just wide enough so that it wasn’t easily visible.
  “I still have every intention to capture Edalyn. As long as you will fulfill the promise you made to me, she will become a useful ally.”
  The second part of that was pretty much impossible now – Edalyn has been more than reluctant to join the Emperor’s Coven before today, and now that she knew the Emperor wanted her child dead, Lilith was pretty much certain that her sister would rather die herself than joining the Coven –, but that didn’t mean Lilith could just give up.
“Oh, but of course. And you  did  prove me wrong today. To take something as important as the human from your sister... you couldn’t have done that if she was genuinely more important to you than our cause is.”“Of course she’s not. The main reason I asked for your help in reversing the curse was because I believe my sister to be a powerful witch useful to our goals. Not because she’s my sister.” This wasn’t true at all, and Lilith wasn’t sure if Belos was aware of it or not – but if he was, he at least seemed to tolerate it, as long as it didn’t keep her from doing what was necessary. But she wasn’t sure how much longer she would be able to remain in control of her emotions after everything that had happened today. Lilith still hadn’t been able to shake what her sister had said.  ‘You crushed a young girl’s dream and talk about it like it’s something to be proud of. And you messed up Amity’s life in the process... the girl you were mentoring, the one that you were supposed to protect!’
  No matter how badly she tried to push them to the back of her mind... to forget about them... she couldn’t.
  She’d never meant for Amity to get caught in the crossfire... and there was also this nagging voice at the back of her head that forced her to question everything else about her decision.”
  “Is something bothering you, Lilith?” The menacing voice of the Emperor silenced her thoughts in an instance. “You’re not having second thoughts about the fate of the human, are you?”
  “Of course not.” Lilith sighed. “But something unfortunate happened when I destroyed the portal that was outside of my control.”
  “Oh?”
  “The Blight girl I’ve been mentoring has... befriended the human over the summer. This in itself would not have been an issue, but she happened to follow her friend into the other realm, which I wasn’t aware of when I destroyed the portal. Now she’s stuck on the other side.”
  “Ah. I understand what you’re asking of me.” His glowing eyes glared at her menacingly. “Not to worry, Lilith Clawthorne. I will be sure to inform her parents of this... unfortunate development personally. The Blights have proven time and again that they are among our most trustworthy allies. It’s a shame that their youngest daughter has gone astray... but I’m sure they’ll know which side they’re on despite that.”
  Lilith felt her heart drop to her stomach.
  “But... Amity’s just a child.”
  The protest felt weak, even to her, and it didn’t do any good.
“Precisely. A regrettable waste of a talented young witch... but like you said, she’s still young, so that there’s not too many years of training that have gone to waste on a traitor. You understand why we can’t risk opening another portal to retrieve her,  don’t you, Lilith?”So he  had  understood what she was really asking. He was just ignoring it to make a point.
  “I-”
  He didn’t even wait for her answer as he continued.
  “The commotion the young human witch has caused during her few months here is worrisome. She’s persuasive, and has already managed to lead a couple of powerful young witches astray in her short time here, who we can only hope will be returned to the right path with the proper guidance now that the human is gone. Imagine how much more harm she would cause if she were to ever return here...”
  “I understand that, but-”
  Once again, Belos didn’t let her finish. His glowing eyes glared at her through the glass, his voice becoming more and more threatening with every word.
  “Good. You proved your loyalty to me today. Don’t prove me wrong again so soon. I’d hate to be forced to take care of you myself.” His tone was ice and fire at the same time, and Lilith felt chills running down her spine. 
  She of all people knew Belos did to traitors the same thing he did to covenless witches. Getting on his bad side was a death sentence... if you were lucky enough.
“I understand. You’ll forgive me for worrying about the young witch, won’t you? We’ve heard terrible stories about the human realm since we were kids.” She lowered her head in a gesture of complete obedience when once again, Edalyn’s voice popped up in her head.   ‘You’re a coward, Lily.’And she knew that her little sister was right.  She really was a coward.
  “Oh, but of course. Who would I be to lecture a teacher for caring about her protégée?” Belos’ cold, menacing laugh made Lilith tense up even more. “But not to worry, you’ll forget about her soon enough. I’ll be sure to assign you a new promising student as fast as possible, of course. No use in wasting your potential as a teacher because of this little setback.” He paused to think for a moment, and despite not being able to see his face, Lilith was certain an evil smile crept across his face when he spoke again. “Perhaps one of the Blight twins would be fitting? They’re older, so they will be a bit harder to tame, but I don’t doubt you will be up for the task. And I’m certain their parents would be thrilled.”
  His soulless, glowing eyes were still staring holes into her body. 
  Lilith gulped.
  “...of course, Emperor Belos.”
  He sounded satisfied when he continued.
  “Very well. I knew I was right to trust you with this task. Rest now, Lilith. You’ve earned it. I will make sure everything else is taken care of.”
  Then the light of the crystal ball died out and the darkness surrounding her engulfed Lilith, regret eating away at her as she sunk back into her chair.
   “What have I done?” 
  After another half an hour, Amity and Luz had finished up reading the fanfic. The atmosphere was way more relaxed than it had been.
Amity was just proud that she’d made it through the last two chapters without dying, despite the fact that they’d exchanged wedding vows  and adopted a child after a time skip at the end. Most importantly though, Luz was happy again.
  “This was so much fun! I’ve never had anyone to read fics with before, and the story was great, and you’re really incredible at doing voices. Thank you for this.”
  Amity beamed.
  “Anytime.” She yawned. “Huh, maybe it’s actually time for us to head to bed now.”
  Luz nodded.
  “Okay.” She took the mattress out of her bag and placed it on the floor next to the bed, putting two pillows and a blanket on it. “I’ll sleep on the mattress. You take the bed.”
  “But-”
  Amity didn’t even have the chance to protest.
  “No. You’re the guest. You’re not sleeping on the floor.” 
  And even if it hadn’t been for that, Amity’s back injury was enough of a reason to not let her sleep anywhere but on the bed. 
“Luz, I’m not hogging  your  bed.”
  “Yes, you are. And it’s not hogging if I ask you to do it.”
  Amity crossed her arms.
  “No. I already stole half your food. I’m not hogging your bed as well.”
  “Lemon Drop, not this again...” The look on Amity’s face was enough to make Luz certain that her friend wasn’t going to budge on this, no matter how many cute nicknames she was showered in, and Luz sighed in resignation. “You know what? Fine. We’ll share, then, because I’m also not budging. And since you won’t let me sleep on the floor, despite the fact that I’ve been sleeping on that mattress all summer so it wouldn’t be a big deal... I guess you’ll have to be the big spoon, huh?”
  Luz winked at her. 
  Amity just looked at her friend in confusion, then looked at her own body, and then back at Luz.
  “I’m... not a spoon.”
  The thought of Luz wanting to share the bed with her had been exciting at first, but now she was just confused.
  The human girl chuckled.
  “...oh right, you guys have different expressions. Three months on the Boiling Isles, and I somehow still keep forgetting that.” She looked at Amity and smiled. “The words ‘big spoon’ and ‘little spoon’ are cuddling positions in bed. The big spoon hugs the little spoon all night. Like... if I lie down like this,” She laid down on the bed demonstratively, “with my back towards you, and then you hold me from behind and cuddle with me all night, you’re the big spoon and I’m the little spoon. It’s easier to sleep like that with a bed as small as mine.”
Luz was also  maybe, possibly  just looking for an excuse to cuddle with Amity some more. If Amity had to leave again tomorrow, they really needed to make the most of the time they had.
  “Oh.” Amity felt her cheeks heat up again as her heart fluttered in her chest. Was she dreaming? Luz really wanted Amity to hold her all night? “Okay, then maybe I wanna be a spoon. But why am I the big one?”
  Not that she was really complaining – cuddling with Luz at all was more than she would ever ask for, and that her friend wanted that made Amity behind happy. She was just curious if there was any specific way the big spoon and little spoon were chosen.
  “Your injury. I don’t want to cuddle against your back if it means I’ll end up accidentally hurting you.”
  “I... oh.” Amity rubbed the back of her neck. “Right.”
  So no specific process to assign the big and little spoon. Just Luz being sweet and thoughtful again.
  How was it possible that everything she said and did made Amity’s heart flutter as much as it did?
  “You can lie down already if you want to, okay? I’ll go turn off the lights.”
  A few moments later, the room was dark, Amity was holding Luz in her arms and all was right in the world.
  “Is that okay? Are you comfortable?” Luz asked softly as she pulled the blanket over both of them.
  “Mhm...” Amity cuddled up to her crush a bit more and closed her eyes. “I’m a happy spoon. The happiest spoon in the entire world.”
  And she really was. Nothing she’d ever felt compared to the feeling of holding Luz in her arms as Amity fell asleep, and she knew right then and there that if she could keep doing that for the rest of her life, she’d be happy.
  “Hey, I just wanted to wish you girls... goodnight?” 
  Camilia poked her head through the door about half an hour later, and was very surprised that the lights in her daughter’s room were out and that Luz and her friend were already in bed. 
  She hadn’t expected them to be asleep this early. Luz tended to stay up way past midnight – especially on weekends –, scrolling through her phone under the blanket, fully convinced that that fooled her mother into thinking she was asleep, to then get a text telling her to please go to sleep after her mom had checked in on her before either heading to work or going to bed herself.
  Camilia had kind of expected that this would be worse – and certainly not better – since Luz had a friend over... yet, here they were, 11:23 pm, and she was sound asleep in her friend’s arms.
  “Buenas noches a ustedes dos.” They looked so comfortable, and Camilia couldn’t help but smile. “Dulces sueños.”
  Amity was a really sweet kid. A bit too clumsy for her own good, maybe. She was very like Luz in that regard, the adult mused.
  The two teens looked like they’d had a long day – and from what they’d told Camilia about Amity’s luggage being stolen, they really had –, so they more than deserved a good night’s sleep.
  This was the first time Camilia saw Amity without the beanie, since the girl of course didn’t sleep in it. 
   ‘Ah, so her natural hair color is brown.’ 
  She’d been wondering about that.
  ...and then the adult saw Amity’s left ear that was poking out from beneath the dyed green hair.
  Camilia rubbed her eyes. She could have sworn the girl‘s ear looked unnaturally pointy – almost like she’d fallen asleep in one of those makeshift elf cosplays that Luz sometimes showed her mother pictures of.
  What she saw hadn’t changed when Camilia opened her eyes again.
  “Huh...” She shook her head and sighed. “I should probably get some sleep now, I can’t go to work tomorrow if I’m so tired I’m hallucinating...“
        Notes:
          I hope you liked this chapter, feedback is extremely appreciated as always!No, I will not apologize for heartbreak, the first non-character-tag is hurt/comfort and not fluff for a reason 😂I have no idea how this chapter ended up being SO LONG, but I hope you enjoyed it anyway xDAlso: WE’RE ALMOST AT 2K KUDOS, EXCUSE ME WHILE I SCREAM! AAAAAAAH! THANKYOUTHANKYOUTHANKYOU I HAVE NO IDEA HOW I DESERVE THAT BUT THANK YOU!Also thank you for all the nice comments on the last chapter, you guys are way too sweet! I laughed a lot at everyone screaming about the toothbrush, I’m really happy you enjoyed that scene, it was one of my favorites to write so far xDI can’t answer everyone, sometimes simply because I don’t know how to reply, but I do read every single comment (often multiple times), and every single one makes me insanely happy and I’m incredibly thankful for everyone that takes the time to write me a comment, no matter how short ^^All of you are amazing and this plays a huge part in motivating me to continue, so thank you all so much!I think what Luz says to Amity in Spanish is pretty self-explanatory, but since what Camilia says isn’t quite as clear, it translates to  “Good night, you two. Sweet dreams.”See you guys next Saturday with a new chapter! (Hopefully actually Saturday this time 😅😉)More art of Amity in a beanie for you to enjoy:https://cala--mar.tumblr.com/post/628700812645941248/the-lone-witch-and-secret-room-hey-look-amityAlso, while you wait for the next chapter, check out this cute little Lumity writing piece that I commissioned from a friend of mine: https://archiveofourown.org/works/26385712
      Chapter 6: Facade
        Notes:
          A quick little note before we start this chapter – since I started writing this story before the last two episodes of the first season aired, I already had a some things planned that don’t fit the canon of the show 100% anymore (aside from just generally not including these specific episodes in the story’s timeline).The only really major thing about it is the way magic works in the human realm – which you’ll see a bit of in this chapter, and which I will get into more in the future.Since it’s kind of plot-relevant for Luz to still be able to use her glyphs, I’ve decided to stick with that, despite being aware that it contradicts the show. I hope nobody’s bothered by that too much!As for Amity... you’ll have to wait and see ;)
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
Luz was awake at seven the next morning.
  Amity... wasn’t.
  Luz stayed in bed for an additional half an hour, just snuggling into Amity’s arms as she enjoyed the feeling of warmth that spread throughout her body because of it, but eventually, she couldn’t help getting up. 
  Luz wasn’t used to sleeping in – she’d never been able to do that very well, not even during the weekend. Her sleep-wake rhythm was so used to getting up for school that it couldn’t fathom when she didn’t have to, causing her to still wake up pretty early even if there was no reason for her to get up already. 
  In addition to that, once Luz was awake, she was usually wide awake, so there was no use in trying to fall asleep again afterwards.
  ...Eda had not appreciated her student already being an enthusiastic bundle of energy at eight every morning.
  Luz bit her lip. 
  It had barely been a full day, and she already longed to be back on the Boiling Isles.
  She felt even less at peace in the realm she’d been born in now than she had felt before she’d walked through the portal for the first time. 
  She was already homesick, in the place that was supposed to be her home.
  Luz shook her head as she carefully lifted Amity’s arm off of herself to climb out of bed. She needed to find a way to distract herself somehow. 
  Amity gave an unhappy grunt when Luz moved out of her arms and got up, but she didn’t wake up from it.
  It was ten before Luz had the heart to wake her friend. She sat down next to her and gently started shaking her until Amity opened her eyes slightly.
  “Morning, sleepyhead.”
  Amity groaned, not even looking at Luz for a single second before she closed her eyes again.
  “Mgh, five more minutes, Em,“ she mumbled drowsily and pulled the blanket over her head.
  Luz chuckled. 
  This was adorable.
  “And here I was, thinking you were a morning person.”
As long as she’d known her, Amity had never been late for anything,  ever. That she of all people would sleep in was a real surprise to Luz.
  Amity groaned even louder, tempted to throw a pillow in the vague direction of the person responsible for waking her, still not awake enough to recognize the voice.
  “It’s the weekend. I don’t need to be a morning person on the weekend.“ 
  Sure, if she had a reason to get up early in the morning, like training or going to school or meeting up with Luz, she could – she wasn’t thrilled about it, but enough hot liquid and she’d be awake, and if it was worth it, she would do it without complaint... but that didn’t mean she was a morning person. 
  When given the chance to sleep in, she took it, especially since she spent most of her weeknights up studying and usually didn’t get that much sleep.
  “...you know what, that’s fair.” More chuckling. “Aren’t you hungry though? You haven’t eaten in over twelve hours now.”
  Slowly, Amity was starting to actually wake up, and when she finally did, she realized she wasn’t in her room. The soft, warm blanket wasn’t hers, and when she slowly poked her head out of the blanket cocoon into the light of day, she started remembering where she was.
  “Oh, right. I’m not at home.” 
  She rubbed her eyes, and when they’d accustomed to the bright morning light, looked back up at Luz’s smiling face. 
  “Morning, you. Did you sleep okay?”
Now  that  was a sight Amity wanted to wake up to every day for the rest of her life.“Amazing...” She zoned out for a couple of seconds, then forced herself to snap out of it before Luz could get weirded out or question  why  she was staring. “I mean, I just-” She cleared her throat, blushing a bit. “I got a lot of sleep that I kinda needed after barely sleeping at all yesterday... and the cuddling was really comfortable. I haven’t slept this well in ages.”
  The day before, she’d not been able to sleep for basically the entire night because she’d been both incredibly sad about Luz leaving and insanely nervous about her plan to confess to her. 
   ‘Which I still haven’t done. We almost kissed yesterday, and I somehow still didn’t manage to say it out loud. Titan, why is this so hard?!’ 
Amity was still so insanely afraid of rejection. She still had nightmares about that damn Grom rejection,  and that hadn’t even actually been Luz. 
  And on top of everything, the one time she had managed to find the courage to say something, she’d been interrupted, because of course she had been.
  “...hey, are you okay? You look a bit upset.”
  Luz’s soft voice stopped Amity’s racing thoughts abruptly. The green-haired witch took a deep breath to calm herself down as she collected her thoughts. 
“Yeah. Sorry. I’m fine. Just not really awake yet.” She was still going to do it. She was still going to confess to Luz. But... not when she was half asleep.  ‘Am I just making excuses at this point?’
  She probably was.
  “Couldn’t sleep the day before I left the Boiling Isles either, huh?”
  Amity shook her head.
  “...not really. Imagining being without you after spending so much time together during the last couple of months really hurt.”
  She sighed, finally finding the energy to sit up. 
  She let out a surprised, pained yelp when she moved her back. 
  Luz immediately moved to her side and helped her sit up carefully.
  “There you go.” Luz eyed her friend worriedly. “Is it your injury again?”
  Amity bit her lip and avoided her friend’s worried glance for a moment, then looked back up at her and sighed. She still wasn’t great at admitting weakness – she’d probably never be, after a life of being told being vulnerable made you weak; that compassion and pity were the same thing, and that someone who received either was worthless –, but she’d learned her lesson the day before. 
  No more lying to Luz about anything injury-relayed.
“It’s better than it was, I swear, and you did really well yesterday... but I’d be lying if I said it doesn’t still hurt. A lot.” She felt especially bad about admitting her pain because she didn’t want Luz to feel like it was her fault again, or like what she’d done yesterday hadn’t been enough, because she’d done her best,  and her best was beyond amazing. Amity didn’t want Luz to feel like she wasn’t good enough.  ‘Please... I just don’t want you to cry again. Especially not because of me.’
  “That bad, huh?” Luz mumbled, unable to tear her eyes from Amity’s pained expression.
  Her friend nodded, leaning slightly against her to distract herself a bit.
  “I didn’t even feel anything until a moment ago, but the second I moved, it felt like my whole back was lit on fire.”
  Luz gently squeezed Amity’s shoulder. She’d kind of expected this – burn injuries took a while to heal, after all, and Amity’s was still pretty fresh. Her back would probably still be sore for a while.
  “I guess the painkillers wore off, huh?”
  She’d have to go get some more... and hope her mom wouldn’t realize that they were disappearing just yet. Once she did, it would raise some questions that Luz still was not quite ready to answer just yet.
  Amity looked at her friend in confusion.
“...wait, those weren’t permanent? Why are they called pain  killers  if the effect is only temporary, and they don’t actually kill the pain? That’s super confusing!”
  Luz blinked. She’d never thought about that before.
“...I have no idea, actually. But now that you mention it, yeah, that  is kinda weird.” She shook her head. “But that’s a mystery for another time. Right now, I’m going to get you some painkillers...  and  I’m going to try and use my healing glyphs.”
  If anyone found out either of them was able to use magic, they’d be in big trouble. But right now, Luz’s mom was at work, so they were alone in the house. If she’d close the curtains, maybe closed the door of her room as well, just to be safe... they should be fine. 
  She had to give it a shot. 
  Anything to make Amity feel better faster.
  “Luz...” Amity protested, but her friend shook her head and had that determined look on her face that the green-haired witch knew all too well.
  Nothing she could have said right now would have talked Luz out of doing this.
  “No. This will not be discussed.”
  Amity sighed.
“...you don’t need to take care of me so much, you know.  I could manage.”
  Luz knew her friend well enough by now to see past the surface of her words – to know that this wasn’t Amity asking Luz to stop taking care of her because she didn’t want her to, but rather it was Amity seeking reassurance... so reassurance she received.
“Yeah, but that’s what friends are for, you goof. I’m not doing anything I’m doing because I  need to  or feel obligated to do it. I do it because you’re important to me and I  want  to.” Luz offered Amity the sweetest smile she had and one of her hands found Amity’s and squeezed it slightly.  ‘Meeting you was one of the best things that ever happened to me. You’re not a burden, and you never will be.’
  Amity nodded, her face lighting up in relief.
  “...okay. Do it, then.”
  Luz nodded. She got up, closed the purple curtains, then the door to her room and then took her glyph notebook out of her bag – it was the only thing still left in there, after she’d spent about half an hour while Amity had still been asleep unpacking the rest of her stuff, since she was planning to carry them with her everywhere, just in case. 
  She ripped out two of the pages with healing glyphs on them to then sit back down on the bed and lifted the back of Amity’s shirt a little to put the two pieces of paper on her friend’s bandaged back carefully. 
  When Luz tapped on the glyphs, just gently, lo and behold, they turned into dark blue light and disappeared right through the bandages into Amity’s body.
  “Did it work? How are you feeling?” Luz asked immediately.
  She was too worried about her friend to realize what this actually meant – that she’d just proven that magic did indeed still work in this realm.
“I...” The green-haired witch blinked. The pain wasn’t gone entirely, but she felt  so much better  already. She wasn’t sure if the spell had just numbed the pain or done anything to actually fix the damage a bit, but it had definitely helped. “Wow.  You’re getting really good at this, huh?”
  Luz immediately noticed the change in her friend’s expression. Her heart skipped a beat.
“You’re feeling better?  You’re really feeling better?”
  Amity nodded.
  “...yeah. A lot, actually. I don’t even think I need any more of those painkillers right now.” She beamed at her friend. “Thank you, Luz. For everything.”
  Luz felt a wave of relief wash over her upon hearing that. She immediately threw her arms around her friend’s neck – once again careful to avoid touching her lower back by accident.
  “Oh, I’m so glad!”
  Amity melted into the touch, smiling as she snuggled against Luz.
  “You’re amazing, you know that, right?”
“Who? Me?  Naaah.”  Luz shook her head and waved her hands defensively. “But it’s sweet of you to say that. I  am  trying my best.”
  Amity hugged her even tighter.
“No, Luz. You  are  amazing.  This will not be discussed.”
  She winked at her. 
  The human girl felt her heart flutter in her chest again.
“So are you...” Luz said softly as she slowly let go of her friend, looking directly into Amity’s eyes, Luz’s hands still resting on Amity’s shoulders. Gosh, spending so much time with the green-haired witch was slowly turning Luz’s brain to complete mush.  ‘...not that I’m complaining, though.’
  It took Amity a few seconds of recovering from enjoying the hug maybe way too much to finally realize what both she and Luz had so far kind of not thought about much.
  “Luz... you just successfully did magic in the human realm for the first time,” she gasped in amazement.
  Luz’s eyes went wide, and she let go of Amity in complete shock, just gaping like a fish for a moment until she properly processed what had just happened.
  “I just did magic? I JUST DID MAGIC!” she yelled, enthusiastically punching a fist into the air and squealing with joy, completely overwhelmed with happiness about that discovery. Then someone outside on the street honked their car horn at something very likely unrelated to Luz’s yell, prompting her to be pulled back into reality, and her common sense returned. She lowered her raised fist and rubbed the back of her neck. “...whoops. That was a bit loud. Maybe I should not be screaming that through the entire neighborhood.”
“Yeah, maybe not.” Amity chuckled.  ‘You’re really cute when you’re excited, though.’
  “I just did magic...” Luz breathed, still completely amazed.
  She hadn’t been aware of just how afraid she’d been to lose that ability before now. 
  She’d known she was scared of losing it, of course, but now she realized that during the past couple of months, doing magic had become as natural and normal to her as breathing, and suddenly losing the ability to cast spells would have felt like she was missing a part of herself.
  It wasn’t even like she’d be able to cast spells here often – if she got caught doing any, it wouldn’t end well... but just knowing that her magical abilities would be there, should she ever need them in this world, was a huge weight off her chest.
  “I’m so happy for you.” 
  Luz being happy and excited never failed to make Amity smile. 
  “Also, slight change of topic, but speaking of magic,” Amity began after a while, only half-joking, “how exactly do you look this perfect this early in the morning? What kind of witchcraft is that? Can you teach me?”
  Amity was very well aware that she probably looked like a complete mess right now – she always had a terrible bed head –, so how Luz was sitting next to her, every single hair in place, she didn’t understand.
  Luz chuckled.
  “I mean, it’s past ten, so it’s not really that early anymore? Also, I’ve kind of been up for more than two hours.” She shrugged. “You looked so tired, so I decided to let you sleep while I showered, did the dishes, unpacked my bag and cleaned my room a bit – I‘m sorry about the slight chaos here yesterday, I wasn’t expecting visitors when I come back, so I didn’t really tidy up before I left.”
  Although, honestly, even if she had known, she wasn’t sure if she’d have had the motivation to do it, considering just how bad her mood had been right before she left.
  “It’s fine. And how you’re awake enough this early to do any of that is beyond me. Also, you’re wrong. On the weekend, ten is definitely early.”
  Luz let out a hearty laugh.
  “Now you’re starting to sound like Eda.”
  “Is that a good or a bad thing?”
  Amity giggled, then bit her lip and blushed when her stomach started rumbling loudly.
“Honestly, I’m not sure,” Luz replied, shrugging but still chuckling. “So you  are  hungry, after all, huh?” Amity blushed even more because she was so embarrassed, but she didn’t deny it. “Be right back.”
  Luz smiled at her, then got up and left the room abruptly.
  She returned with a tray a couple of minutes later.
   “...I kinda forgot to mention this earlier when I was listing the things I did while you were still asleep, but I also went to the bakery down the street while I was at it. Breakfast?”
  She’d originally set the table downstairs, but since Amity was still pretty tired and should be taking it a bit easy because of her injury,  healing spells or not, they might as well have breakfast in bed.
  She pulled the night stand a little closer to the middle of the bed and set the tray down.
  Amity’s mouth watered immediately at the wonderful scent. There were a bunch of food items she had never seen before on the tray, as well as some strangely not purple bread and two cups of something that was steaming and smelled like fruits.
“...titan, I could marry you right now,”  she mumbled, staring at the food and then at Luz with equal amounts of amazement. 
  Aside from affectionate gestures in general, this was probably one of the fastest ways into Amity’s heart... and once again, she was wondering if it was possible to be any more in love with Luz than she already was.
  Luz blushed.
“Nawww, stop it, you’re giving me way too much credit. This wasn’t even  that  much work.”
  Still, Amity teared up a bit at the sight.
“Nobody in my family has made me breakfast since I was... four, I think?”  Because screw preparing the food for your kids yourself when you had servants for that, right? And who needed to have breakfast together as a family if you could instead be at work early!  “So maybe that’s stupid, but... this means a lot. Really. Thank you.”
  Luz looked at Amity in shock.
  “Your parents don’t even make you anything special for your birthday?” 
  Amity shook her head. 
  “They’re usually not even home on my birthday, except if it’s on the weekend. And they always invite tons of adults I don’t even know to my birthday parties and I’m barely allowed to invite any friends my age, except if they work together.”
  She couldn’t even remember the last time her parents had taken the day off of work just to celebrate her birthday with her – usually, all she got were a couple of unnecessarily expensive gifts that made it blatantly obvious that they had no idea what Amity actually liked and that felt like her parents were either forgetting that she wasn’t five anymore or like they were more for them than for Amity... and that was if they didn’t forget her birthday altogether. 
  One time, her mother had wished her a happy birthday three days late – one day before another one of these stupid pseudo celebrations that had nothing to do with Amity and everything to do with her parents –, and then told her to ‘stop obsessing over dates so much’ when her daughter had corrected her. 
  Amity had been six at the time.
“I know they were bad, but...  wow. What the hell is wrong with your parents?!”Luz was completely speechless. She’d not really heard any good things about Amity’s parents in the past couple months, and she still wasn’t over the fact that they’d made Amity end her friendship with Willow  on her own freaking birthday...  but how messed up did they have to be to turn their own daughter’s birthday party into a political event and then not even care enough about their child to celebrate with her and actually make it about her, even in private?Luz made a mental note to plan a surprise party for Amity’s next birthday, because she deserved to have a birthday party that was actually for and about  her for once.
  Amity just shrugged.
  “I have no idea, honestly. But let’s not talk about them anymore. They’re already constantly getting way more attention than they deserve, they shouldn’t get ours on top of it.” She sighed, then redirected her attention to the food. “What’s that colorful stuff in the jars?”
  Luz respected Amity’s wish to change the topic – despite her own desire to throw a few choice words in her parents’ direction beforehand.
  “It’s different kinds of jam,” she explained, leaving Amity even more confused than she had been prior to the explanation.
  “...humans put music on their bread slices?”
  Luz chuckled. 
  Of course  one of the few human sayings she had actually managed to explain to her friends had a second meaning she didn’t think about when explaining that ended up being confusing. 
  “Not that kind of jam. It’s...” she thought for a moment about how she could best explain it, then remembered that the Boiling Isles actually had something rather similar, “our word for ‘sweet fruit guts’. We have a bunch of different ones, so I thought I’d just bring those and a couple spoons up here so you can try them and decide what you want to put on your bread buns.”
  They spent a while eating in peace – Amity gasped in amazement at just how sweet and good the jam stuff was, and had a hard time picking just one or two, and Luz promised she’d be allowed to take some home if she wanted to –, when the silence was suddenly interrupted by a muffled voice from behind them starting to shout.
  “Answer our freaking messages!”
  The two of them flinched, very startled by the sudden yell. It took them a moment to realize that it was coming from the scroll that they’d hidden in a drawer of Luz’s study desk the day before.
  Luz got up and waited until Amity had put her plate back onto the tray before she handed it to her.
  “...we completely forgot to check the messages again yesterday, didn’t we? Whoops.” Amity felt yesterday’s worry return as she picked up her scroll and opened her messenger. She almost fell backwards onto the bed when she saw just how many messages there were. This was bad. Lots of messages usually didn’t mean good news – and that someone had bewitched one of them so that the scroll actively started complaining definitely didn’t mean good news, especially since that particular message was from one of the twins as far as she could tell at first glance. They only used these kinds of messages to either actively mess with someone as a joke... or if it was an emergency. “I hope the others are okay...”
  Luz glanced at the scroll.
  “Is it okay if I-” Amith nodded. She actually preferred Luz being there with her, especially in case the news were actually as bad as she was afraid they were. Luz moved closer to her friend to be able to look at the texts with Amity. “Alright then. Time to find out what’s going on.”
  Over on the Boiling Isles, Gus, Willow and the twins were back at the owl house. They were all sitting on the couches around the living room table – Eda and King on the green one, the twins and Gus on the red one. The only one who wasn’t sitting currently was Willow, who was standing at the stove. She was also the only one out of all of them who didn’t look at least slightly dead thanks to lack of sleep, which was the main reason she was doing this in the first place – doing anything that involved hot stoves and boiling hot liquid wasn’t a great idea when you weren’t entirely awake yet.
How bad the others looked varied, from Eda’s  ‘I don’t get enough sleep very often, so I’m used to it’ -look to King being asleep on her lap, with everyone else being somewhere in between.
  “Okay, genuine question,” Willow asked as she looked at the others, “did anyone get any sleep tonight? Like, at all?”
  No one said a single word, save for Edric, who nodded vigorously.
  “I got a solid twenty minutes.”
  Willow sighed as she added more ingredients to the boiling fluid in the pot in front of her and started stirring again.
  “...I’m making more morning potion. Got it.”
  “So much happened yesterday! How was anyone supposed to sleep after that?” Gus asked, who seemed surprisingly awake despite his lack of sleep.
  He was probably the only one in the room except for Willow who was.
  Emira groaned, leaning heavily on the table in her half-asleep state.
  “We spent all night up trying to figure out how to break everything that’s happened to Amity.”
  The twins, Willow and Gus had spent a while discussing who would tell Amity about everything while walking back to Bonesborough the previous day... and eventually, they’d decided that it would be best if Edric and Emira told her, since they’d spent enough time messing with their sister to know which buttons not to push if they didn’t want her to be upset – or, well, even more upset than anyone would be after finding out they were betrayed by their mentor and that their dream job involved killing their crush.
  “King and I stayed up collecting what remains of the portal. It’s... not much, far from enough to just do a reconstruction spell.” 
  Not that Eda had gotten her hopes up a lot to begin with. After that, she’d pulled an all-nighter trying to think of a different solution for their portal-related problem... with pretty unsatisfying results.
  “I helped, too, Hoot Hoot! I made sure the lights stayed on!”
  “Alright, me, King and Hooty stayed up all night to do so,” Eda quickly corrected herself. She then looked at the twins. “The good news is, nobody will have to worry about telling Amity anything anytime soon. She’s going to be stuck with Luz for a while.“
  Edric raised an eyebrow.
  “That... doesn’t actually sound good. I mean, she’s not going to complain about spending more time with Luz, but... If we can’t repair the portal, what can we do?”
  Willow was done with the potion now, and was currently busy filling it into cups and handing them to everyone. She paused for a moment at that question.
  “Is it possible to create a new portal?”
  Eda nodded.
  “In theory, yes. I mean, I made the other one, so of course I could make a second, similar one. But, well... a lot of the materials needed for it are rare and expensive – the second part isn’t that important for us because we’re not going to pay for them, but it seemed worth mentioning –, and it requires an insane amount of magic to open a portal, so this is not going to be easy, and it’s going to take a long time.”
  Emira immediately snatched one of the cups from Willow and downed it in one go.
  After that, she was finally able to lift her head properly.
  “Oh look, I’m alive again!” She rubbed her eyes and stretched her arms towards the ceiling as the potion’s energy spread though her. “Thanks, Willow. That was a strong one.”
  “No problem!” Willow replied, then mumbled “...I’m just glad I did a spell to cool it down before I brought these here,” under her breath while handing out the rest of the cups.
  A couple minutes later, everyone was doing far better.
  “Now that we’re all no longer half-asleep... back to the question at hand!” Gus said, looking at Eda. “You said creating a new portal will take pretty long. How much time are we talking about here? Weeks? Months?”
  Eda shook her head and sighed. Now for the part that none of the people present, herself included, would like very much.
  “Years. It took me over a decade to create the one that’s now busted.”
  The room went dead silent for a few seconds, until suddenly, it wasn’t anymore.
   “OVER A DECADE?!” 
  Emira’s shocked, terrified yelling was so loud, it woke King and made him jump off of Eda’s lap, startled as he was.
“I’m awake!  I’m awake!”
  Eda sighed.
  “Sorry about that. I just told them what I told you earlier. About how long it took me to make the other portal.”
  “I told you they wouldn’t be thrilled!”
  Eda rolled her eyes.
“And  I  told  you  that’s not some kind of surprising, shocking discovery. Of course they’re not thrilled! I’d be worried if they were!”
  That was the main reason Eda had not been able to sleep the night before. The thought of being separated from the girl that was basically her daughter now for such a long time broke her – and the longer Amity was forced to stay there, the more danger she would be in. No matter how smart and skilled she was, at some point, she was going to slip up, and if the worst happened, everything would be over afterwards.
  “What are we going to do?!”
  Gus was freaking out. To be fair, pretty much everyone in the room was, except for Eda and King, who had already done their fair share of freaking out a couple of hours ago.
  “We have to get them back sooner somehow! They can’t wait that long! That’s way too dangerous!” 
  Willow had spent basically the whole summer worrying about her friends, since saying Luz had a knack for getting into trouble would have been a massive understatement... but she was pretty sure she’d never been as worried as she was right now. 
  She couldn’t lose one of her best friends like that. Not so soon after meeting her. 
  And she couldn’t lose Amity again so soon after finally letting her back into her life – after they’d finally started fixing things between them. 
  But Willow didn’t allow herself to freak out. She had to stay at least somewhat level-headed. Surely, there was some kind of solution for this. 
  There had to be.
  “We can’t just leave Mittens stranded there for more than ten years!” Emira protested, as if complaining about it enough would change anything about this fact.
  She wasn’t ready to accept that Amity... would really be gone this long.
  Her heart dropped to her stomach. What if something happened to her while she was there? What if she got in trouble? What if she got hurt? What if-
  “Yeah! What if she and Luz get married in the meantime, and we can’t attend?!”
  Emira rolled her eyes and elbowed her twin brother.
  “Edric! Priorities!”
  He looked back at her sheepishly.
  “...right. Sorry.”
  Emira sighed. She knew her brother just meant well. This was just his way of freaking out just as much as she was, and she couldn’t really blame him for not wanting to miss such an important part of their little sister’s life... but the fact that they would be missing ten years of it was way worse than some random event that might or might not take place during that time – even if that random event was something as important as a wedding.
  Missing ten years of Amity’s life meant they’d miss ten of her birthdays. They’d miss seeing her grow from a young teen into an adult. They’d miss seeing her freak out over her first date, and all the stupid, wonderful things that came with that. 
  They’d also miss her gr-
  Emira gasped, her racing thoughts coming to a sudden halt when she realized that they could not, in fact, miss Amity’s graduation... because if she wasn’t here, she wouldn’t be able to attend Hexside.
  Her voice was barely a whisper when she spoke again.
   “Amity is going to miss so much school. She won’t be able to graduate.” 
  Imagining just how crushed Amity would be once she found out about that was too much.
  She had been working so hard for so many years to get to where she was right now, barely allowing herself to have an actual childhood, their parents putting more and more pressure on her the older she grew. 
  And now that was all supposed to be in vain?
  Even if what had happened yesterday would be enough to convince Amity not to join the Emperor’s Coven – with her abilities, and considering how good she was at school, she’d never have any trouble finding a different coven that took her in.
  But if she couldn’t even finish school...
   ‘This isn’t fair...’ 
  And after several years of acting stronger than she was, Emira Blight’s seemingly unbreakable facade finally crumbled, and she broke down crying.
        Notes:
          Thank you so much for reading, feedback is super appreciated as always! This chapter is super late, I’m sorry! It’s been... a stressful week. *sigh*First things first: I’m changing the day I update again, to Sunday this time – so, basically, nothing changes for you XDI figured out I really need the entire weekend to write a chapter in case I don’t get that much done during the week, which is more likely than I wish it was, so it’s going to be less stressful for me that way, I hope that’s okay with you guys! Sorry about changing the schedule again so soon after changing it for the first time🙈Also, I now have a very good reason to not be able to write during the week as much: I don’t know how many of you guys have heard of this project yet, but I’ve been selected as a creator for the Lumity zine https://instagram.com/begaydowitchcraft?igshid=yhzh6of8gdqg, which I’m insanely excited about *squeals happily*, so I’m of course going to be working hard on what I’m planning to create for that while I continue working on this fic! I might also be taking a week off from this fic occasionally to continue to work on my writing for the zine, so consider this a quick heads up! (I’ll of course say something in the chapter before I take a week off, and also post a reminder on my tumblr, there’s not going to just randomly not be a chapter without warning one day.)Second of all: I know I’ve been horrible about answering comments in the last chapter – like I said, it’s been a stressful week –, but you guys were once again so amazing! Seeing all the positive feedback to my writing warms my heart each time and really keeps me motivated. I’m so, so happy about having such an active, wonderful community reading this story that supports me so much, and I promise to both still reply to as many of last week’s comments as I can now that I have the time, and to try and get better with answering them in the future.That being said: we’ve hit 2k kudos since I last updated, and have even gone a couple hundred kudos beyond that! And we also hit 25k reads! 25K! How insane is that?! AAAAAH! THANK YOU SO MUCH!See you guys next Sunday! 😄I’m the meantime, please go give this toothbrush demon art some love:https://marsfl0wer.tumblr.com/post/628927951293087744/heres-a-doodle-of-a-scene-from-this-fic-called
      Chapter 7: Breakdown
        Notes:
          This chapter is super, super, super late, I’m so sorry :/I really struggled with some of the scenes, and it also ended up... insanely long, so that’s why.This is somehow almost 9k words, what the heck is wrong with me, god XDAnyway, have fun reading, I hope you enjoy!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  “Em...” 
  Edric reached out and pulled his crying sister into a hug. She just continued to sob into his chest in silence. 
  This was scary. This was really freaking scary. Emira didn’t cry. Not even in private, like Edric sometimes did, when everything just became too much. 
  She always held her head up high and seemed above it all, even when their parents spent an hour after dinner yelling at her for not getting a perfect score on an exam.
  Sometimes, there were cracks in the mask, when her smiles seemed more forced and pained than genuine... but Edric had never seen her break down the way it was happening right now.
  “Em, it’s going to be okay.”
  “DON’T!” Edric flinched slightly at the harshness of his sister’s voice, but even now, he didn’t let go. She needed him right now. He sucked at comforting people, but she needed him right now, so he wasn’t going to let her down like that. “NOTHING’S EVER GOING TO BE OKAY AGAIN!”
  He didn’t flinch as much the second time she started yelling.
  Honestly, this was probably good for her.
  Emira was almost notorious for always keeping her negative emotions bottled up. 
  Another day, another fake smile – another dumb prank to keep her mind off of everything. Don’t let anyone see your pain. Don’t even admit it to yourself. 
  Eventually, something had been bound to happen that was just too much and finally broke down her walls.
“Good. Let it  alllll  out. You’ll feel better afterwards.” He rubbed her back a little. “We’ll find a way, okay? We won’t leave her stranded there for so long, I promise. There has to be  something  we can do.”
   “I mean, technically, we already have a bit of an advantage because we’re more than one person,” Eda chimed in. She still wasn’t very good at handling crying kids on her couch, despite the fact that she’d had a surprising lot of them to deal with over the summer. “But you kids are still students.”
  “So, if you’re saying our number helps... is there a way we could speed this up further?” Gus asked, his dad’s reporter-curiosity getting the better of him and pushing his panic into the back of his mind a little as the wheels in his head started turning. “Assuming we could gather more people – could we open a portal faster?”
  “Well, yes... but it’s a bit more complicated than that.” Eda sighed. She’d spent a lot of time thinking about this. “Since, according to what my sister said, it was the Emperor’s orders that led to the portal being destroyed because he wanted Luz gone so much, he’s not going to be thrilled if we open another one to get her back – meaning whoever helps us is probably going to have a place on Belos’ hit list afterwards... and also that, if we choose the wrong person to help us, they might tell on us, resulting in all of us potentially getting captured and never actually being able to complete the portal. Which means we’d need a bunch of powerful witches we can trust unconditionally.”
  “So... not very achievable right now.” Willow sighed. “Any other ideas?”
  King thought for a moment.
  “If we at least had a way to get Amity back, that would already help, right?” He looked at the twins. “Don’t your parents have lots of influence? Couldn’t they ask the Emperor to help rescue their daughter? I’m sure he has a portal of his own somewhere...”
  Whether or not that was true was pure speculation – but it was worth a shot, right?
  Eda sighed.
  “I mean, Amity wouldn’t be thrilled about leaving Luz behind... but honestly, it would be a lot less dangerous for both of them if at least Amity was back on the Boiling Isles.” 
  Who knew what humans did to people found guilty of hiding a dangerous witch? Eda, for one, would be glad if Luz and her mother never had to find out.
  Emira looked up, her face full of uncertainty as she exchanged looks with her brother and Willow. They were all thinking the same thing.
  Edric sighed.
  “Okay. We’ll try asking mom and dad, but honestly... don’t get your hopes up.”
  Emira nodded, her voice still shaking a bit from all the crying when she spoke.
  “They’d never do anything that could potentially hurt their standing with the Emperor.” She bit her lip. ‘Not even for their own kids.’
  But they had to try. For Amity.
  There was nothing she wasn’t willing to do for even the slimmest chance of rescuing her a little earlier.
  “Is there anything else we can try, both in the likely case this doesn’t end up working out and because we still need a solution for how to get Luz back, even if it does?” Willow asked.
  She knew enough about what Amity’s parents were like to know why the twins were talking the way they were – most likely, even if they did ask, they’d still have to solve this problem themselves.
  “Well, there’s a couple potions that could also help, but it’s not the kind of stuff they sell on the regular market. Honestly, most of it is not even the kind of stuff they sell on the night market. Some of these I assume only the head of the Potions Coven herself has access to.” Eda sighed. “So, basically... we have nothing that could really help us right now.”
  That was a pretty narrow outlook, but she’d had worse ones before. She’d known from the start that this wouldn’t be easy, but there wasn’t anything she wasn’t willing to try to get Luz back, no matter how dumb and dangerous it was and how long it took. 
  “Actually,” Gus said after a while, “I spent some time thinking about which people we could ask for help, and I think I might have an idea. Luz is friends with the double-track kids, and they’re the same grade as Edric and Emira, right? Maybe the twins could talk to them and ask them to help us.”
  Emira’s face lit up immediately.
  “That’s an excellent idea, Gus! We have some classes together, we’ll come up with an excuse to speak to them after school as soon as possible.”
  Edric looked at his sister and rolled his eyes in slight amusement, very well aware of the reason she was so excited all of a sudden.
“Em, Eda said  ‘powerful witches we can trust’,  not  ‘powerful witches you want to make out with’.”
  Emira crossed her arms.
“A person can be trustworthy  and  cute, Edric. Those aren’t mutually exclusive, you know.”
  He elbowed his sister, significantly less annoyed than he pretended to be.
  “You’re impossible sometimes.”
  Emira raised an eyebrow, pretending to be offended.
  “Only sometimes? Dang it, I need to step up!”
  Edric chuckled, and then, so did his twin sister. 
  As stupid as this whole conversation was... at least she wasn’t crying anymore.
  “I’m with Gus and Emira here,” Willow chimed in. “The troublemakers really like Luz, and they’re technically already opposing the Emperor, since we’re not supposed to study more than one track. And even if they don’t agree to help us, they’re not the kind of people that would sell us out, so asking them is definitely worth a shot.”
  “See?” Emira grinned at her brother triumphantly. “It’s settled, then.”
  It was now that one of them – Gus, to be exact – finally bothered to check his messages again because his scroll buzzed slightly in his pocket, and then he realized he had five new messages.
  He opened them.
  “Guys, Amity wrote back!”
  This prompted everyone else to check their scrolls as well.
  “...yeah, and the first time was three hours ago,” Emira mumbled after she’d checked hers. “Whoops.”
  Edric breathed a sigh of relief.
“At least she’s okay, so that’s good.” They’d gotten very worried when they’d messaged their sister back the day before – not her very in detail, just reassuring her that everyone was fine but that there were issues with the portal – and she hadn’t replied again. Sure, she’d said she was fine, but neither them nor Gus and Willow knew  that  much about the human realm, so who knew what kind of trouble she could have gotten into after sending that message? “I don’t think she appreciated us going so overboard with the messages, Em.”
  His sister chuckled.
  “No, apparently not.” She thought for a moment. “...maybe we should call her? It might be easier to tell her everything in person.”
  “Okay, but... what exactly are we telling her?” Gus asked.
  That part was still kind of unclear.
  Emira shrugged.
  “The truth. That she’s going to have to stay with Luz for a while.”
  Willow raised an eyebrow.
“Define  ‘while’?”
  That didn’t sound like Emira was planning on being honest with her sister.
  “Well, we don’t know exactly how long this will take, right? So we should just tell her it’s going to take some time to take care of the portal – a couple of weeks, at least,” Emira responded.
  Her brother nodded, before he added, “I mean, technically, that’s not even a lie, even if we do end up taking several years,“ to what his twin sister had said.
  The plant-track witch sighed loudly.
“Well, that’s definitely not going to blow up in our faces,” she mumbled, very well aware that there would be no reasoning with these guys. “...oh well. Amity is  your  sister, so it’s your call, I guess. But if this goes wrong, I reserve the right to say  ‘I told you so’.”
  Eda placed her crystal ball on the table between the two couches and gestured for the twins to set it to whatever Amity’s mirror frequency was.
  “Let’s just try to reach them and make sure they’re alright.”
  A few minutes later, the crystal ball finally connected to Amity’s hand mirror. 
  Emira had made sure to use a spell before they did so that she didn’t look like she’d just cried anymore.
  Hooty had been temporarily silenced with a spell, because as much as Eda liked him, he wasn’t... great at keeping secrets.
  The glass stayed black for a bit after it had made the connection, then Luz and Amity stared back at the others.
  Luz waved excitedly.
  “Hey guys!”
  “Oh look, you’re alive, after all. We were beginning to have doubts.”
  Despite Eda’s sarcastic comment, nobody missed the relief washing over her when she saw the two girls.
  Luz smiled back at her.
  “Awww, love you too, mom.”
  Eda chuckled, her facial expressions getting even softer.
  “Don’t get cheeky with me, kid.”
  “Luz!” King jumped up at the table in excitement – then turned away and crossed his arms. “I totally don’t miss you. At all.”
  Luz chuckled.
  “Miss you too, King. I already miss all of you, actually.”
  Amity was too busy being annoyed with her siblings for heartfelt greetings, now that she was sure they were okay.
“Are you guys serious? First you send me  hundreds  of messages and have my scroll yell at me because you’re so worried, and then you don’t even reply when I write back?”
  She sounded more annoyed than she actually was. She was too happy that everyone seemed to be alright, and she actually thought that her siblings’ concern was kind of sweet.
  “Believe it or not, we had important things to do, Mittens,” Edric replied with a shrug.
“What took  you  so long to reply after we wrote back the first time, anyway? We didn’t hear back from you all evening. Did anything  interesting  happen yesterday?”
  Amity growled at the tone of her sister’s voice and Emira’s exaggeratedly wiggling her eyebrows, but she could feel her face heating up. The others exchanged a look when Luz turned away blushing as well.
  Eda raised an eyebrow.
   “Oh?” 
“It’s nothing! We just... almost kissed by accident, and now we’re  totally not being weird about it!” Luz blurted out. 
  Amity blushed even deeper and sighed at the way her siblings were looking at her. 
She would  never  hear the end of this.
  “Wow, Mittens has more game than we gave her credit for,” Edric whispered.
  Emira just grinned.
“How do you almost kiss by accident?” Willow asked, slightly confused.
  Gus on the other hand seemed to be the only one that still genuinely didn’t understand what was going on.
  “Uh, why are their faces so red?”
“It’s a long story, Willow! And it’s kinda dumb! Let’s not talk about that!” Amity said rapidly before Luz had the chance to reply, determined to keep as much information about the incident from her siblings as she possibly could. “Don’t we have more important stuff to talk about?” She cocked her head, thankful when she remembered that there actually  was  something they needed to talk about that she could change the topic to. “What happened yesterday? One minute, I’m going after Luz, and the next thing I know, the entire freaking door blows up behind us!”
  The messages she’d gotten had been very vague when it came to what had actually happened.
The others exchanged a worried look. That sounded like Luz and Amity had been  in range  when Lilith had blasted the portal to smithereens.
  “You... you guys weren’t hurt, we’re you?” Emira asked, looking directly at her younger sibling.
  Amity smiled, maybe a bit moved by her older sister’s concern.
  “We’re okay.”
  Luz eyed her worriedly.
“Amity, you have burns all over your back. That’s not  ‘okay’  in any sense of the word.”
  Emira clenched her fists. Okay, that was it. She was going to kill Lilith.
  Edric had the exact same reaction. 
  Their remaining friends didn’t look too thrilled, either, all looking at them worriedly.
  Amity sighed audibly.
“Yeah, but did you have to tell  them  that? There’s no need for them to worry unnecessarily. It isn’t  that  bad, especially since what you did really helped.” She gave her crush a small, thankful smile. “And besides, I told you I’d go see a healer as soon as I get back to the Boiling Isles.”
  Edric cleared his throat. That just made him feel worse about what he was about to tell her – although he still made sure to say it as enthusiastic and positive as possible.
  “Yeah, about that... good news! You’ll get to spend a lot more time with Luz!”
  The two girls exchanged a look. 
  Amity cocked her head and looked at her brother in confusion.
“What’s  that  supposed to mean?”
  “We were sort of... attacked yesterday. We don’t know exactly who it was or why they did it, but they targeted the portal specifically, and it’s pretty busted right now,” Emira summed up what had happened without actually telling her sister and her sister’s crush anything that they didn’t need to worry about right now.
  Luz gulped. Her mouth went dry, all the scary thoughts from the day before returning as she started to panic.
“The portal’s... gone?” What if she could never go back to the Boiling Isles?  ‘What if... what if Amity can never go home again?’
  King nodded.
  “Yeah.” The two teenage girls on the other side of the line didn’t appreciate the demon’s dramatic pause before he added, “No need to freak out, though! Eda said we can make a new one!”
  Amity glared at him.
  “King, that wasn’t funny! I almost had a heart attack!”
  Meanwhile, Luz looked at her mentor.
  “How long does it take to create a new portal? I mean, I’m not a magical-portal-expert or anything, but that sounds like something that could take pretty long.”
  Eda shrugged.
  “A few weeks, at least. The exact time is anyone’s guess though.”
“Weeks?”  Amity went pale. This was  horrible.  “Mom and dad are going to kill me.”
  There was something about the way Amity said that that 
  Luz absolutely didn’t like.
  The human girl put her arm around the green-haired witch and gave her a bright, encouraging smile in an attempt to keep her mind off things and cheer her up a bit.
  “Don’t worry, I’ll do my best to keep you occupied so you don’t get bored, okay?” Spending extra time with Amity, despite it not being under the greatest of circumstances, wasn’t something Luz would ever complain about. She actually felt her heart flutter a little when she imagined all the things she’d get to share with her friend. “I’m sure we can handle a few weeks of living together without you getting sick of me,” she added with a wink.
  Amity was still freaking out. 
  Getting sick of Luz wasn’t the part that the green-haired witch was worried about – if anything, getting to spend more time with Luz was the only good thing about this messed up situation –, but there were plenty of other things she worried about a whole lot.
  This unfamiliar environment freaked her out. She missed the assessable deadliness of her home.
  What if they got attacked by another one of these monsters from earlier? Amity knew how to defend herself from Boiling Isles-monsters, but she’d never fought anything like that before. 
  What if they came across more toothbrush-demons that Luz didn’t take seriously? What if one of them seriously injured her? Amity wasn’t good with healing magic. What if she got Luz in trouble? What if-
  Gus’ voice suddenly interrupted her thoughts.
  “Oh, I’m so jealous! You get to see so many things in the human world, that’s so exciting!“ After worrying so much about his friends the previous hours, Gus was suddenly super thrilled about that, now that he was sure Amity and Luz were alright. “When you get back, you have to tell me everything!”
  Amity felt her face redden with anger.
  She knew her friend was just excited and wasn’t saying these things out of ill will, but she was on the verge of a mental breakdown and this wasn’t exactly helping.
  But before she could yell at him, her former best friend did.
   “Gus!” 
  Willow gave the youngest of the group a warning glance. 
  Thankfully, he got the hint.
  “...sorry.”
  Luz smiled at Gus while she squeezed Amity’s shoulder to comfort her. 
  Amity immediately relaxed a bit. She couldn’t put into words what exactly it was about Luz’s touch that always helped her remember how to breathe when she was freaked out... but that was almost its’ own kind of magic.
  If she had to be stuck here with anyone, she was glad it was Luz.
  “I’ll bring you some things back the next time I visit, promise.”
  Gus smiled.
  “Thanks, Luz. You’re the best.” 
  “Awww, always.” She smiled. “Good thing you called now while mom’s still at work. She’d probably have been a little weirded out at us talking to a hand mirror.” Speaking of her mom... “Uh oh.”
  It had taken Luz until now to remember that her mom was expecting Amity to leave again today – for obvious reasons –, and that... couldn’t happen. Also for obvious reasons.
  Eda immediately noticed the change in the human’s expression.
  “Everything okay, kid?”
  “I just realized we need your help with something else, too.” Luz turned to Edric and Emira. “You two are good at coming up with excuses, right?” The twins nodded simultaneously. “Can you help us come up with a reason for why Amity has to stay here a while longer that will convince my mom?”
  About half an hour later, Luz and Amity had gone from talking to the twins via call to sending messages back and forth via scroll with them to brainstorm so the others could ‘continue working on the portal-issue’ in the meantime – whatever that meant, exactly.
  Amity was still kind of panicking about the whole situation, but had managed to calm herself down enough to be able to focus on the problem at hand.
  She could always resume the panicking afterwards.
So far, they’d not really been that successful in finding a solution, since most of the twins’ ideas would have worked fine on the Boiling Isles, but didn’t exactly work in the human realm, and Luz’s only idea so far had been ‘maybe we could hide her in a closet’, but that had been  from  a bad fanfic and would probably only have worked  in  a bad fanfic, so she’d scrapped it again immediately – after making a dumb joke about how she hadn’t wanted to go back to being closeted again anyway, after finally coming out to her mom a couple months ago, which Amity hadn’t understood because the concept of being closeted didn’t exist on the Boiling Isles.
  But despite not managing to come up with anything before, the newest idea Emira had sent was pretty good.
  “This one could work, I think.”
  Luz handed Amity back her scroll so the green-haired witch could read the message.
   ‘What if you tell her Amity got kicked out by her parents?’ 
Amity gulped. She’d expected her siblings to come up with  something  that worked, but... she wasn’t sure if she liked this.
  She felt kind of bad for lying to Camilia in the first place, and using such a heavy topic to do it didn’t feel right.
  ...not that she’d technically put kicking her out past her parents if they got angry enough at her.
  “Luz, are you sure this is a good idea? That’s kind of a huge thing to lie about.”
Deep down, Luz knew her friend was right. Maybe they would have been better off just telling her mom the truth right now... but in addition to all of Luz’s already existing fear of her mother’s bad reaction to the truth, there was now the additional scary question of  ‘What if she sees Amity as a threat and doesn’t let her stay if we tell her?’ 
  They couldn’t risk that. 
  “Well, what else are we supposed to do? If we don’t find a reason why you have to stay here, she’ll expect you to go back home. And we both know you can’t do that.” 
  Amity sighed.
“I know, I know, you’re right.” It wasn’t like she had any better ideas, and if she couldn’t stay here, they’d have an even bigger problem. No matter how bad she felt about it, as long as she didn’t have a better solution, just saying  ‘no’  solved nothing. But there was something else, too. “Luz... you’re really good at lying to your mom. Is everything okay between you two? What’s your relationship like?”
  At first glance, it had seemed like Luz and Camilia genuinely loved each other to Amity – actually, at second and third glance, too. Things weren’t perfect, of course, because in what family were they ever? ...but this had reached the point where Amity was getting kind of worried about something more going on beneath the surface that she just hadn’t seen yet.
  “Huh. Yeah, I guess I am.” Luz sighed. “It’s just... Mom works a lot, and she’s always very tired when she gets home, and even when she isn’t... I prefer watching movies with her and laughing with her over having certain serious conversations with her. The couple of times she got called into the principal’s office for because of me were more than enough trouble, so I tend keep everything else to myself. It’s easier that way. I love my mom, and I know she loves me. A lot. We have a good relationship, overall. We’re just... very different people, and there are some things we don’t talk about.”
Amity kind of wanted to ask what the  ‘everything else’  Luz had mentioned was referring to, but she couldn’t bring herself to say anything. Whatever it was, it didn’t  sound  good.
  But the tone of Luz’s voice calmed Amity’s initial bad thoughts. The way she talked about Camilia made it obvious that she meant every single word she said.
  Amity knew she wouldn’t have been able to talk about her own parents in that way.
  Whatever was going on between Luz and her mom seemed to be more of a genuine communication issue rather than anything malicious. 
  That was good, at least.
  They spent the next couple of hours coming up with a story while Luz modified spells until she was able to do what she wanted to do with them.
  Amity was a little freaked out when Luz merged her scroll with her little hand mirror to turn them into a single item that looked a lot more like a regular human phone than Luz had expected it to. A weirdly shaped model, and slightly larger than the average phone – but still phone-esque enough to pass as one as long as people didn’t look to closely.
  “But- but how are they still supposed to work if they’re merged together?!”
  “It’s just an illusion spell, remember? I can undo it at any time. And they’ll work the same way they always did... they’re just one thing now, and a little smaller. Makes it easier not to get stared at when you use them, and makes it easier to carry the scroll around.”
  The merging illusion was something Gus had taught Luz towards the end of summer. She’d watched him combine his illusion magic with already existing objects rather than just creating something out of thin air – using it to make Willow’s plants appear larger and stronger, in this specific case. 
  He’d also combined some of the plants together via magic, creating one bigger plant first out of two, then out of three plants. It wasn’t exactly the same thing Luz was trying to do here... but it was close enough for her to be able to figure it out with some time.
  And Luz also found a more permanent solution to the issue with Amity’s ears standing out in this world – which was extremely necessary now that she would be staying here, and most likely also be attending school here.
  Luz had gone through the illusion spells she’d learned over the summer, and there was one especially that seemed fitting for their particular issue – a spell that altered appearance. It was usually used for simple things, like changing eye or hair color temporarily for special occasions, and Luz had tried it a couple of times for fun already back when she’d still been on the Boiling Isles.
  The only thing left for her to do was find a way to change the glyph so that it affected the form of the ears rather than hair or eyes. 
  That one took a lot more trial and error than the first one, since there were tons of different ways this specific glyph could be altered, for obvious reasons. It also involved a ton more funny mishaps than the first – one time, Luz accidentally ended up turning her own hair shoulder-length, and another time, she accidentally made her ears look like elf ones instead of changing Amity’s to human ones... but eventually, she figured it out.
  “Sooo, what do you think?” 
  Luz looked at Amity expectantly after she’d taken her to the bathroom so she could look into the large mirror to inspect her slightly altered appearance. 
  Amity spent a moment just staring at herself, then first reached for the mirror to touch the illusion ears of the reflection, and then touched the ears themselves.
  “This is super weird. I don’t think I’m ever getting used to that.”
“Me neither, honestly.” Amity was right. This  did  look strange. Luz missed the cute, pointy ears – although there was probably no way Amity would ever not be gorgeous to her. “But I think I did a solid job at making you look more human, and you still look just as pretty as you usually do.” Luz didn’t even notice Amity’s slight blush. “Ooooh,  I need to teach this to Gus when we get back to the Boiling Isles! He’ll be so excited about this!”
  A couple of weeks of not going back there was okay for Luz. She could handle that. She’d expected it to be at least that long, after all, probably longer, depending on how much homework they’d be given over the different breaks and depending on whether or not her mom had something planned. 
  And at least, they had a way to stay in contact with everyone, which was more than she had expected – she needed to remember to bring back a Boiling Isles mirror to her realm the next time she visited, maybe even already when she brought Amity home.
  This whole situation was less than ideal, and she could tell that Amity was still really shaken by the fact that she wasn’t able to go home sooner... but Luz would do her best to keep her distracted.
  “Oh, yeah, you’re right. He definitely will be.” Amity beamed at her. “You know, it’s pretty amazing that you were able to figure all this out in just a couple of hours.”
  Luz smiled and blushed a little.
  “I’ve been playing around with changing spells ever so slightly for different results all summer. I guess I’m just getting kinda good at it.”
  “More like amazing. Don’t sell yourself short like that.”
  Luz blushed.
  “Thank you, that’s so sweet.”
  Was Amity just being nice by making her all these compliments? Luz was almost starting to think she might be flirting with her. 
  She shook her head. 
  What a ridiculous thought.
  “Just being honest.” Amity cleared her throat and changed the topic now that she was getting all flustered again. “How soon is your mom going to be home?”
  Luz took a look at her phone to check the time.
  “Soon enough that I should really start cooking in a couple of minutes. Do you want to go over what we’ll do one last time?”
  Amity shook her head. 
  “Thanks, but I think I’ll manage.”
  It wasn’t like the plan itself was very complicated – whether or not they’d manage to pull this off was a different story, though.
  While Luz went downstairs to start preparing dinner, Amity went back to her friend‘s room and called her siblings again.
  Luz and Amity had kept them updated about what exactly the plan was after deciding that Camilia witnessing part of the call would probably make their story more believable, and asked them to make sure they were alone when Amity called again, in order to avoid possible background noise.
  Thankfully, Luz had been right – Amity’s not-phone worked just fine.
  “You guys ready?” she asked her siblings when they picked up.
  Emira nodded.
  “We went over what we’re going to say a couple of times.”
“So, we’re probably less ready than over-prepared.” Amity’s brother raised an eyebrow at her. “But are you sure  you’re  ready, Mittens?”
  Amity rolled her eyes.
“What’s  that  supposed to mean?”
  He shrugged.
  “I mean, it’s a decent plan. You’re not very good at acting, though. We know you can’t cry on command.”
  “Yeah, you’re right, Edric.” Amity sighed. She’d thought that through, as well, and while she didn’t like what she’d come up with, it looked like she would have no other choice. “But you guys know me very well, don’t you? You know what I’m afraid of and what hurts me...”
  Her siblings looked at her in surprise, and it was obvious that it was slowly dawning on them what she was asking of them.
“...are you going where  I think  you’re going with this? Because in that case, titan, no. I’m  not  going to do that.” Edric crossed his arms and shook his head. “My sibling-powers are for teasing – mean-spirited teasing at most. Not for making my little sister cry.”
  Amity sighed and looked at her older sister with pleading eyes.
  “Emira? Please?”
  Emira gulped.
  “Mittens, are you sure you want me to-”
There were no words to express just how much she did  not  want to do this right now. But Amity nodded vigorously. 
  It wasn’t like they really had much of a choice, after all. If they couldn’t pull this off... the green-haired witch didn’t even want to think about what that would mean for her. 
  Weeks of sleeping in the abandoned cabin in the woods, most likely. The thought... wasn’t especially thrilling.
  She shuddered.
  “We need this to be as believable as possible to even start to hope it will work. If Camilia doesn’t buy it, we’re screwed. Em, I want you to do your worst. Make me cry. I mean it.“
  She sounded very determined.
  Emira clenched fists to keep her hands from shaking, closed her eyes and took a deep breath. 
  Edric had a point, but if Amity needed their help right now and this was all they were currently able to do to help her... she’d do it. What she wanted or didn’t want to do didn’t matter in that case.
  “...okay. And Amity... I’m sorry.”
  It only took a couple sentences out of her sister‘s mouth to shatter Amity’s heart into a million pieces.
  Thanks to the small spell circle Emira had drawn into the air in front of her, it wasn’t her own voice that came out of her mouth when she started speaking, and when Amity looked up, it wasn’t her sister’s face that she saw on the screen.
  Her mouth went dry.
“I expected more from you, but I guess that was my mistake.” These words in combination with  that  voice... that was just too much. “Your parents warned me that you were their least talented child. That you’re still using a training wand at your age is embarrassing, to say the least. But I still thought maybe,  just maybe,  you could be shaped into something special despite that. Well, it looks like I was wrong.”
  By now, Amity had pretty much forgotten that this wasn’t real. She felt like someone had stabbed a knife through her lungs, taking away her ability to breathe.
  “Lilith, I-”
“You’re a failure, Amity.  By far the worst student I’ve ever had. It was naive of me to ever think otherwise. And now you’re going to skip school, aren’t you? You’ll lose your badge. Your parents are going to be  so disappointed in you.”All color drained from Amity’s face. She hadn’t even thought about the fact that she was going to miss school because of this whole issue, but now that was all she could think about. She was going to have so many absent days. She’d miss so many lessons that she wouldn’t be able to ever catch up. 
   She’d have to repeat the year, and then that would go on her report and everyone would know how much of a failure she was. The Emperor’s Coven didn’t let just anyone join. There was no way they’d choose someone that had repeated a year over someone who hadn’t, no matter what the reason for the repeat was. 
  Her parents...  her parents would be livid.
  And as Emira kept on talking with the voice that wasn’t hers for a couple more sentences, Amity spiraled. To hear all those things from someone she looked up to, someone she’d wanted to be like and maybe one day even work with... that was too much. The voices in her head got louder and louder, Lilith’s mixing with those of her parents and her teachers and eventually, those of her friends and Luz, all shouting at her that she was a failure and a disappointment and that nothing she did would ever be good enough.
  Just like that, she’d lost everything she’d ever worked towards.
  “MOM! YOU’RE BACK!”
  Luz started yelling really loud when she heard the front door close. Hopefully, Amity had heard that and got started with her part.
  Camilia shook her head and chuckled when she walked into the kitchen.
  “Mija, I’m not deaf, you don’t have to yell so loud.”
  “Sorry, I wasn’t sure how well you heard me over the boiling water.” Luz smiled at her innocently, gesturing towards the water boiler. “I made soup for lunch, I hope that’s okay.”
  Camilia smiled at her daughter in delight and rumpled Luz’s hair.
  “Of course. It smells wonderful.”
  They’d been doing it this way for a while. 
  When Camilia was home first, she cooked. When her daughter was, Luz cooked.
The girl liked to think she was a decent enough cook – not  perfect,  but good enough to serve it to guests without feeling bad about it.
  “Can you go get Amity? She’s still upstairs trying to reach her parents.”
  Camilia raised an eyebrow and crossed her arms.
  “She still hasn’t reached them?” Luz shook her head. Camilia cocked her head. “They’re... not very reliable, huh?”
  That their daughter should have been home the day before, and they hadn’t even bothered finding out where she was when she hadn’t shown up at home was ridiculous. 
  Camilia hadn’t even met these people yet, and she already didn’t think very highly of them.
  Luz sighed.
“You can say that again. Amity sometimes spent hours on her phone trying to reach them back at camp, but to no avail. They’re always...  very busy with work.”
  Camilia shook her head uncomprehendingly. It wasn’t that she didn’t understand working much and not being able to spend an endless amount of time with one’s daughter – which was something she deeply regretted, but wasn’t able to change –, but this was on a whole different level.
  Had Luz not returned when she was supposed to, Camilia would have called her immediately, and if she hadn’t been able to reach her, she would have driven back to camp herself and turned the whole place upside down in order to find her.
  “Of course I’ll go get her so she can eat with us.”
  When Camilia walked up the stairs, it didn’t take long for her to realize that something was off. She could hear voices coming from her daughter’s room – one of them male and two of them female, and the ones that weren’t Amity’s sounded furious while Amity herself sounded completely broken.
  “Mom, dad, I-”
  Amity’s voice cracked.
  “Don’t you dare call us that!” the male voice shouted.
  Camilia winced at the harshness of the words and the tone. She hadn’t meant to listen in on the phone call... but it was loud and now she was starting to get worried. 
  Whatever this was about, it didn’t sound good.
  Apparently Amity had finally reached her parents – but Camilia was starting to feel like it might have been better if she hadn’t.
  “You’re a disgrace to the family name,” the female voice continued, sounding just as harsh as the male one. “You should be ashamed of yourself. I refuse to consider a useless, worthless disappointment like you my daughter.” 
  There was a short pause, the only thing Camilia could still hear being Amity’s broken sobs.
  It was the male voice that broke the silence again.
    “Don’t you dare show your face at our doorstep ever again!”  
  Then the room went quiet again, and this time, it remained that way.
  A few seconds later, Amity glanced up to notice Camilia standing in the door frame, glancing at her with a sympathetic look on her face.
  “...oh, hi Ms. Noceda.” 
  The green-haired girl couldn’t even manage a half-smile as she looked up at Luz’s mom and wiped a few tears from her eyes, her voice shaking almost as much as her body was.
  Camilia gave her an apologetic look. She forced herself not to show how angry she was at the people that had just said all these things to Amity – unforgivable things, that nobody, no matter the circumstances, was ever allowed to say to their own child. 
  But anger wouldn’t help Amity right now. She needed sympathy more than anything.
  “I really didn’t mean to listen to your phone call, it’s just...”
  So their plan had worked, at least. But Amity felt too sick to even be the slightest bit happy about it.
“I know. It’s not your fault. They get very loud when they’re mad at me.” Amity started sobbing even harder. She’d expected a bad blow. She’d expected this to hurt. ‘  But not like this.’ 
  “If there’s anything I can do, just say the word and I will, okay?”
  Camilia refrained from asking what this had been about. Amity needed support right now... not someone that forced her to explain in-depth what had caused her parents to say all these words to her.
  “C-could you please go get Luz?”
  Amity didn’t care about anything else anymore. Not about their plan, not about whether or not she’d have to sleep in that stupid cabin in the woods... right now, all she wanted was for Luz to hold her before she fell apart completely.
  “Of course.”
  After her mom had come back downstairs, Luz rushed into her room as fast as she could. She didn’t know what exactly it was, but something about the way Camilia had told her that something had happened and that Amity needed her – something about the look in her eyes when she’d said it – had made Luz’s blood run cold.
  If her mom believed their lie this much... she had a really bad feeling about this.
  Luz pushed the door to her room open.
  “Amit-” It took one look at her friend for Luz to know that Amity wasn’t faking anything. She was shaking and crying and looked downright sick, her face completely ashen. “Oh my god, what happened?!” Luz sat down on the bed next to her and pulled her friend into a tight hug. “I’m right here. Whatever it is, it’s going to be okay.”
  Amity just sobbed into her friend’s chest and shook her head as she clung to Luz.
  “No, Luz. It won’t be. Nothing’s going to be okay...”
  She still couldn’t stop shaking, even her hands desperately clinging to Luz’s back wasn’t helping her calm down.
  Luz felt her heart shatter to pieces, and for a few seconds she forgot how to breathe. Seeing Amity this broken was too much for her. 
  This wasn’t like the way Amity had cried the day before. Her breaking down the way she had had been scary enough, but this... 
  Luz had never seen her friend this upset before. She could feel Amity crumble to pieces in her arms.
What could the twins have said to her that had hurt her  this  badly?
  “What happened?”
  Luz’s voice was soft and sweet and full of worry.
  But Amity couldn’t bring herself to say even a single word. She just started sobbing even louder, burying her head in Luz’s chest.
  “Can I...?” 
  Camilia asked softly. 
  Amity nodded. 
  The less she had to speak right now, the better... even though she wasn’t really upset for the reason her friend’s mother thought she was. She just wanted to get this whole stupid act over with so she could curl up into a ball and cry herself to sleep.
  “Her parents kicked her out.”
  “Amity, I’m so sorry...” Luz hugged her friend even tighter. Eventually, she looked back up at her mother, with maybe the most desperate look on her face Camilia had ever seen on her daughter. Camilia already knew what Luz was about to ask before her daughter even opened her mouth. “...mami, can she stay here for a bit? Please?”
  “Luz, we can’t just...”
It wasn’t that Camilia didn’t  want  to help Amity... but things weren’t that easy.
  “It’s okay, Luz. I’ll figure something out. I don’t want to be a burden to you guys.”
  That was too much. The soft, shaking voice along with everything she’d just overheard was all that was required for Camilia to immediately change her mind. 
“No. Amity, you’re  not  a burden. It’s okay. You can stay for now.” Nobody deserved to be treated by their parents the way this girl had just been... and with how much she meant to Luz, even if Camilia hadn’t been the kind, caring woman she was, she would have let her stay, because if she hadn’t, the damage not helping Amity out right now would have caused to her relationship with her daughter wasn’t worth the risk. They’d have to find a different solution eventually... but at least for a bit, Amity could stay with them. “There’s going to be a bunch of legal issues we’ll have to take care of if you stay here temporarily – especially since your papers are missing. But we’ll manage.”“...really?” Luz hugged her mom, relief washing over her. As bad as this whole situation was, as much as her heart hurt at seeing Amity cry  and not knowing why and not being able to help...  at least it had worked. Amity would get to stay with them, and she didn’t have to hide her in the attic or something. Now she could put most of her focus for the next couple of weeks into making her friend feel better about whatever it was that her siblings had told her that had hurt her so badly. “You’re the best.”
  Amity looked up at Camilia, her teary eyes full of gratitude.
  “I’m not going to cause you even the slightest bit of trouble, Ms. Noceda. I promise.”
  Camilia smiled and shook her head.
  “That’s sweet, but... I won’t hold you to that. Mistakes are human.”
  Luz had caused her mother plenty of trouble in the past, but that didn’t mean anything she’d done wrong had ever made Camilia love her less... or that anything she would still do wrong in the future ever could.
  “Luz, I’m going to go downstairs and make a few phone calls, okay? I’m going to enroll Amity at your school. I refuse to let this take away her future.”
These words hurt Amity more than they helped her – both because the reality of the situation was that there was  nothing  Camilia could do about the girl’s messed up future... and because the kindness and lack of judgement in her voice made Amity question how it was possible that it felt like this woman she barely knew cared about her more than her own parents ever had.   
  Amity spent the next few hours on the bed, unable to pick herself up off the mattress, and she rarely ever stopped crying. 
  Luz didn’t leave her side, not even for a single minute. She just sat with her in silence for a long time, squeezing Amity’s hand to remind her she was there and always making sure she was as comfortable as possible.
  Eventually, Amity managed to say out loud through her sobs what her sister had said to her.
Luz just held her and listened while she did, and despite Amity telling her that she’d  asked  Emira to make her cry, Luz couldn’t help but get angry – because Emira had known exactly how much this would hurt Amity... and still said all those things to her, in the absolute worst way possible.
  “You know your parents won’t really stop loving you just because you get a couple bad grades, right?” Luz said reassuringly after her friend had finished telling her what had happened.
  Amity started sobbing even louder.
  “Believe me, they will.”
Luz’s blood ran cold. Amity’s voice was shaking so badly, she sounded so upset,  so broken,  but at the same time so, so incredibly certain that it made Luz feel sick.
  “...you’re not serious,” she mumbled in disbelief.
  It scared Luz how sure she was that Amity was actually indeed serious from the way she’d spoken. 
  The green-haired witch buried her head in Luz’s chest, trembling like a leaf.
  “They’re going to hate me, Luz... they’re going to actually throw me out.”
  Her voice was barely above a broken whisper.
  Luz wasn’t a very violent person, but right now, the pure terror in Amity’s voice made her angry beyond words, and she was about ready to punch Amity’s parents through a wall as soon as she had the opportunity to do so.
  What had they done to their daughter that made her so scared of them?  What had to be wrong with a person to care more about their child’s grades than her well-being?
  The more Luz heard about Amity’s parents, the more determined she became about making sure that Amity never had to go back to Blight Manor once they returned to the Boiling Isles. 
“Well, forget them, then! Amity, you’re incredible. If they don’t see that, that’s their mistake, not yours. You have so many things you should be proud of – way more than some grades or a  ‘top student’-badge. You’re smart, and brave, and beautiful, and you have a kind heart, despite being raised by people that so obviously don’t share that quality. You’re ready to face your fears and grow past your mistakes for the people you love. That’s stronger, braver, than most people are. And you’re funny and supportive and just in general the greatest person I’ve ever had the honor to meet, let alone be friends with. Seeing you is all I need to brighten up my day. I’ve never met anyone like you, Amity. Don’t let your stupid, blind, horrible parents define what makes you special. You’re special because you’re  you. That’s all you ever need to be.” Amity lifted her head a little and pulled Luz even closer. She was still too shaken up to manage even the smallest smile... but titan, she wasn’t even sure how it was possible to love someone as much as she loved Luz right now.
  “Luz, I... Thank you. For everything.”
  Luz hugged her back gently, still careful not to touch the area of the injury.
  “Anytime.”
  And then they went back to sitting in silence, Amity’s heart still heavy, but she was able to breathe a little easier now.
  Some time later, Camilia came in to bring them the soup that Luz had made which she’d heated up.
  “I thought you two might be hungry.”
  Luz looked up and smiled weakly at her.
  “Thanks, mom.” She took the tray from her mom and put it down on the bedside table. Amity didn’t even lift her head, but she did make a noise of silent complaint when Luz let go of her. “I don’t think we’ll be coming back downstairs today.”
  Camilia gave them a sympathetic smile, glancing worriedly at the upset green-haired girl as she banished the memory of herself and her own inconsolable daughter in this very same room so many years ago into the back of her mind.
  “That’s okay. Amity can take all the time she needs. If there’s anything I can do for you...”
  “Actually...” Luz bit her lip. She felt guilty even asking what she was about to, but she didn’t really have much of a choice. She had to somehow be functional enough to go back to school the next day, after all. “I really need to take a shower, but I don’t want to leave Amity alone in my room. Can... can you stay with her for a couple of minutes? I’ll be quick, I promise. I‘ll eat afterwards.“
  Camilia hesitated a bit. 
  “Would you be alright with that, Amity?”
  She didn’t want to do anything their visitor – or, well, not quite visitor anymore – wasn’t comfortable with. She could imagine that crying in front of someone that was basically still a stranger to her was about the last thing she wanted to do right now.
  After a short moment of hesitation, Amity nodded.
  “Okay. In that case, I’ll stay.”
  When Luz had left the room, Camilia took her daughter’s desk chair to sit down next to the bed in order to not invade Amity’s personal space too much.
  “Is that okay?”
  Amity lifted her head off the pillow to face Luz’s mom and muttered a soft “thank you”.
  The warmth and kindness in Camilia’s eyes were the same Amity always saw in Luz’s.
  When Luz came back into her room about ten minutes later, hair dried and dressed in her pajamas, Amity had reached for Camilia’s hand, and Camilia was humming the same song she’d always sung to Luz when her daughter had been upset when she was little.
  There was a strange peacefulness about the scene, and for a moment, Luz didn’t dare interrupt it.
  Luz now knew that Amity didn’t have parents that behaved like ones back home. Maybe what she needed most right now was a parent that did, even if it wasn’t her own.
        Notes:
          Thank you so much for reading, feedback is super appreciated as always!I’m still blown away because of how far this story has come – so many comments, and over 2.5k kudos. This is insane, and every single one of you guys motivates me so, so much, so once again, massive, massive thank you.Also, once again shoutout to GoG_Kudos, who helped me make the scene where Amity breaks down even meaner by adding the idea with Lilith ^^I’m going to be dead at work tomorrow – or, well, today, since it’s past twelve where I live, whoops XDBut ugh, I wanted to finish this chapter today, so I did, who needs sleep anyway?See you guys very, very soon, please check the end note below for the update schedule!
  Notes:
  Before I forget this again, since that’s apparently a thing now: If you make a fanart of this fic, please please please share the link in the comments so I can see it, I’m beyond speechless that anyone would even think of making fanart for anything I write.If you want to, you guys can come check out my owl house-tumblr while waiting for the next chapter: https://the-lone-witch-and-secret-room.tumblr.com, I post a short chapter sneak peek there once a week ;)And I also have another Owl House fanfic on my profile, which is literally just about Luz being dense and jealous after Grom, so you can go check that one out as well if you want to :DUpdate schedule for this story, since I can’t update every week anymore because I need to focus my attention on the pieces for the Lumity zine I got into as a writer:*break*11.10.20: chapter 818.10.20: chapter 9*break of two weeks*01.11.20: chapter 1008.11.20: chapter 11*break of one week*22.11.20: chapter 1229.11.20: chapter 13*break of one week*13.12.20: chapter 1420.12.20: chapter 15Please keep in mind that chapters might end up being a couple days late – while I do try to update on Sundays, the chapters tend to kind of spiral out of control occasionally, resulting in me not being able to finish them on time, and also that I have a life outside of writing that might end up getting in the way, and that I might need more time to work on the zine pieces.Thank you for your patience!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (593)
  Comments
          UrsusUrsus, xLuxBane, rabidtime, reb11, sjacik, Bells1ng, Xellos_Makuzo, Dr3wby, DeadHero, loquia, Turglin, emmythegay, Lizardkisser, Lightning_Dragon, Detective_Noceda, Lumina_Landercast, TwoPercentMalk, Simply_Lumity, slyyyyywish, TheYolk, ForTheNords, ihollow23, OpalescentPalette, FluffyCather, NatsRDR, polypa, ThatGuyInTheCorner, VirgoNowhere, yasmingonzalezportugal_08, mitsuchawn, bubblerain, SuperiorJango, APokeMa, Drizztstorm, red_like_roses_101, bluedog85, Shakespeare22, CaptainKahjiit, JERRYBERRY96, Hazri45, jesspookie, WhyOnlyHaveOneFandom, JinxWolf34, AiyoDiced_Salto, DiamondFox117, Trwansdrwagonboi, Solerer, Huggerish, dheytham1, Vennyriz22, 
               and 1385 more users
            SydTheFrog, Lifebreaker92, Rainigamer, TheGuardian1717, PinkoTop, CerebralAnarchy, Slutforedits, deadly_park, CherryBerry5, firey709, Kiidneys, Sunbreak171, SecretShip, nathalia_paiva, NerdyGamer33, Sketchywolf, Headache_Bunny, WickedRosie, GodlyBroski, HornedHorse, stayinginside_readingfanfiction, theamazingsuperfox, Random_personcspophk, Zamietka, MysticStorms, Luigipignerd, Crafted_by_tech, robot_emoji, Fireman1246, ToeBeanKing, DreamingParadise14, AGalaxyAway, VIBE_Doge, Ookami_Elsa, Checkerslol, Almercer, Seamud, Roy_Min, Sylica_telca, Mmmmmmmmmm, UnLovedDovah, Crowe00, kuurakuraa, Strange_Guy, HammerheadTheShort, Grumpy_TeddyBear, J_Nerd, VirtusTenebrae, CowardKing, Shimmerdish, Freyie, Commetator, Kenya_Illian, wateronyx, patal, Stephecho, Silver_linings12, GreenShadow_MoonLion, NINJESUS, Orion_Oxton, Br0m0s3xu4l, Kai_The_AceAro_Baddie, justyouraveragelesbo, PancakeFromTheFandomHole, Renova, FyreLily, WildRoad, alexks, 45ht0n, Thk118, Souleaters4242, KartsQT, Original_Immortal, pez_palazo29, Yohanl2001, officerhaughtstuff, Hiss, trashboi413, SunnyE, IcedShadows, Ninja_piggy, Kitaer, A_Daydreamer, ShadowsDemonix, 0na, Rachel_Nicole, Mrs_Cause, HarmonyFox, CrissySkrib, olion, MaryaTyk, deliciouslesbianism, Korrag, Mayonaka2004, The_Sr_Mick, TheArtsyDiceGoblin, Dinghy, Nics555, Archidanipop24, LongshotLink, Phar_Mercy, SaUcY_1013, Calazar, rattyowo, AngriestZebra, B14NC4B, RealityJones, Cheiade100, aPleasuretoBurn, yurigirl1999, frog_lesbian, WeHadHomework, CapnNoms, Happerry, Dark_Sans, Alex5755, WriterforFunandBoredum, HYDROMAGMA, mundane_dumdrop, Ch4pm4n_001, Bulldogsalex, Marth30, From_Shadows, Galaxy_art1800, nebrinel, Ivanna_AFC, Ksojfjeochekun, StagPrince98, Wolfopportune, snowangel253, Hours_lost, k8tiejustwrites, Damn_it, l3xy03, pikafloofwriter, CapicDaCrate, Nekomimi_Momo, gimmeyourlemons, seoftsun, blackrider11, ForestOfRavens, Sketeton, unprocessedissues, lenzami, ontherunngo, SketchyNeeks, BlackUmbra, NeoSilver, Hellb0y, CrimsonMadness, kulecarl, TheGreatestWriter, EllieIllusionsinger, OccasionalOtaku, TheAnarchicalPigeon, hexecontahedron, pixlh3art, Azulaxtylee, AceOmega, Kotorii202, derf213, judicialcactus, Celtic_Wolf, GalaxyCake, 1vy, Mukola, Wopfedra, Sans_kin, Henajan, StoneH, SubliminalRasputin, redriot27, Earthly_Reality, DragoLord19D, Caison, WolfsoulXIV, Pikanet128, Silent_Soul, hearmyvoice, Silver_Dorito, Zeanoth, Ayushki, RandoStranger, acidtiddiies, MalicoJack, Ladyjay1616, CupzX, JustSomeone28, TinyDinosaurier, Lekopoofball, Rotoscare, lilsnuggle, B3astCutt3r, Fifthknight, abbapatriarcat, The_Queer_Spanish_Inquisition, perrirheyan, Maguss, DinoDoodles, Jwolf, artena0, LowKeyMan, TheLoneWolfShadow, DragonMoonWolf, ZaryaCoralCrystal, Qynarahman, pail, illliteracy101, kackington, SrirachaPepper, Jd_mAx4, Megamence123, sad_spoonie_theatre_kid, jei_scout, SirWolfboi, SP3EDY78, ParasiticDeer, EndOfExploration, Boisamu, PitBullsRlife, Stormbreaker8474914, This_idiot_king, mechamika, ZurielWritings23, InnerPower, xwlthoughts, MagicalAlchemist17, OwlSkies, CrawlingBigfoot, JauneRhodes, Harleyquinneth, Limited_Fandoms, GeminiAlchemist, MirandaLaBizca, Litperidot, envythesin, Frulat, Kronecker_Delta, Lupula, triforceofthegods, Rayzonic, ragefilledapple, LazuliRose, Roar1217, Zirkalda, FrostbiteZ05, drinkandderive, Theron118, Maou_Nobu, PakaoKat, georgieP, DeltaSilver64, nicarus, angstychaengie, The_HamsterMan21, Tiezs, Coleslaw_Roberts, random_trash_sorry, Perfectly_deranged_fangirl, ScourgeFanatic101, Peckogecko, expiredlittlebites, SheRasPitcher, Sarahsaura, retroclaws, cramityamity, tenebrousA, funky_opossum, kylar21, Hedge_M, GreatValueJellyBean, spazzyrainbowfishlover, Scolop98, Kairannosaurus_Rex, Mostro789, outoveryonder, PaperHatsandPaperBoats, strawberry_jxsephs, ImprovFanartist, asianducki, lainkore, Accipiter_Ater, CoolBlueNerd, Tia89, Fluffy_Puppy0, Tired_VWORP, Nervousgentlewoman, HILEXTRAAA, meltytears, rose14011, StronkNoah34351, thesheafferfountain, Media, nbc22, ToastLovesEggs, effervescenttension1183, Marleypoo411, Tublerone, Hello_my_darling_hello_my_baby, YeahSnow, fuzzypears, JustTimoCraft, Tio_Ele, divineduck312, thatsnomoon1315, Vidninja, ArmageddonGeneration, Doctorks, Sasabu, ITSAROSEOKAY, Minayeon, BrianEdner1, helmetkiss, Gabisite, RyeFo, SaniLaddies, LaFireChicken, Akihito45, Coffynq, Yeeter_B_Parkour, Artemis_II, Prince_Yaock, SecretCat, ephemerites, genVicron, hardstone55, sappho_reincarnated, Jagged203, Imaginatrix142, hazelspacecadet, muggymagenta, WolvezRock17, BitSweetChoc, gayallday, Wicked_Bones, Chimichangays, hissbitch, TigerWarrior0202, solrye, Snake_doc, sour_apples, Agent816, Pairodox, AntisocialKingOfWeirdos, OniLinkPlus, TheSnoozeMoose, SolitairesOcean, strangerjade, Cakesp, ryco, RustyRusset, Skylar113, SonikDC, Lets_be_real32, inabular, ThePurpleZoroark, pop_tab, SMacCrimmon, thestuffdoodler, ancestrallizard, Wardides, Rem285, NappingNightOwl, ANNWHS_512, flilibuster, Watercolorsam, Jackie_Jackal, DjC00kumz, Squiddle, PhantomRose17, kohotli, marsfl0wer, RedHoodie21, vene310, scntuary, Bitter_pill62, greenfangirlism, Guard_of_fire, Flamelordytheking, Catradora_Stan, RatcheT2498, BullfinchTheNoble, TianaRaeRichard04, Fernthegay, wildcvt, PotatoWriting, NobleNyra, DragonDude42, Foxipaw, MyOwn_NoAnimations, transparentTemptation, YeahImBored1, DangerousFiend, ItzWolfiKun, Maxrimus, Boxfort, CherryBerryKomainu, Talistan, CharmWinters, starrhealer, AtreyuFlames, QTesseract, cimanon, ChubChubSmash, Roundestfrog2000, thedeeboe, MaendiKant, poeticaid, MadWrecker, wallashoom, AFeelingUniverse, GabsterWolf, Bluedragon25, LadyBecca, Yui_Nyan, FaerlyNerdy, Spookyrus, Maxs061, Schori123, marimojpg, SaltyNonCanonQueer, sorceressoftime, BetterNameToCome, StodsDaMan, TheReader239, LeithTheBard, Koenig_Glubsch, Seraphe, Tnbcfanlover13, maesar, th4t_on3_psych0, king0flimbs, GreaterComplexity, Rainybandit, heisenbergbxtch, KiwiRen, Avocado_28, CPDLS, Bluepilot, MsVenture, 17AutumnLeaves, Shoeshoe, conantheimp, superlore86, qisemygeyes, Expected_Outcome, DSolGaming, Lumitygang, Sir_Chaos_Omega, Ccubed04, Rednotgray, Flo07225, beardog, GalaxyGatorade, CoraBan, LunarCass, wayward_phoenix, The_Shadow_Wolfe, LumityTrash, spoonyoung, Kai_Roar, Lionfiles, GroveySnail, Jay_Or_Nay, Sodium7, Wiz_is_bored, Nasuada11, KaiTheAwesomeGuy, daisylover, Sr_Cupcake, Idoh, Saskiawolf, FIREL0RDAZULA, cool_space_lesbo, Hakrem, Ak_Ari_215, Silience, Mart301, nynxisme, WahnsinnofHonk, Adron, Seebright, mangleeverdeen, popurristuff, rodsantos, KikiMcW, SuyaLater, Dreamelilly018, barcelonaboots, Kaledz, musicaldaydreamer, kahlen369, That_G3_Obsessive, AnxiousSpark, Werrelock, RogueTomato101, Confused_gay, Prancing_Axiom, Pdestructor, Pedro_Mamprim, YorkieMoon, 2Nahir2, Oceanic_stream, LateInvader, compressedsoup, multifandom_gal, Randk, MewniMilitary42, Burns, Darkartsdoctor, crabberdackle, Iavgbnk, Inlovewithreading1, Vascar, ThePredator666, actuallyKaz, Norawolf27, Jiminy_Panda_713, Radlz, jkosio23, Marinasinas, The_Only_Lonely_Fan, The_SteamPug_Dude, 7tonsofsalt, THOT_SLAYER, txbyhull, LivingToaster, TheBigSpicy, idiotTeabags, Bookender, moldychedd, ProbablyNotKim, BabblingBird, ColourfulVoid, TheSeeker120536, Nohrshidan, inthemeadows, The_Goldsmith, Markthewolf, EonShark, amiirina, Devajuju, NateC7, dylemma91, RaindropDragon, Lesbeannerd, MaxArmenta, splee, Neon_Gecko, catboy64, VegaOfGreypaw, PolinaYuhhh, MarsAttacks, Athena422, MsMaevel, TwoDaysTooLate, KingofTerrors, WildWolf666, marble_androids, catrasasoftie, GayRlyehian, lil_reuno, Domino_Raven, PerturbedTuna, blights, Swole181, Tarumaa, DeMinimisFringe, thatonenerdwholikesmusic, Eintetora, CatraMeowMeowMeow, SaltySweetRen, ArcturusF, Katherine_Vanderquack, a_gay_little_possum, JacklynClemonds, Uwu_idk, BlobBro, PhoenixFlames62, Nati0205, eggsarewhite, Z_Bryn, Jennanby, Andyatl2002, BludSukker, Duelverse, jaybug_jimmies, Lucillia_luchan, JuniperReign, Discordbrony, BulletBillTime, clax, Weird_Cats, nekobueno, Kintatsu, DragonKing1987, BiSexualTyrannosaurus, Luxray4257, Omgftwbbq, calamityCavalier, jeeshadow, RootedInWinter, I_dunno, quartzrunner, phroglover, Galaxybunn, Wormonastring_bob, KatTheIndigoWolf, Soulff, Haestingas, Jackcepticeye, ponyisawkward, Raphael_Antonello, Avery42, Guilloz, Lapidot_life, ImNotVeryGoodWithNames, coeurdoux, silent_tree14, Starwarstimeisallthetime, Streamtouched, Jetrean, AisenK, kennotdrick, Tessica_the_Messica, Root21, Trexlover606, BrightIdea, strike_the_top, CatLover0, BiblioMatsuri, Backoff2069, lavenderlinks, JeyWriter, Groyver, IzzyGranger121, kierst, JimmyB1986, temmies123, Xio12, Clicky, LordHeadcheez, WhatsAnAxolotl, BSayle, Epic_kate12, littlesilverwolf, Oghma, PenningSandman, mitx2, Gathering0Gloom, xxmoonlightxx, HellsGayestWitchling, Kons97, Joyreads, AnonManon, Kas8605, hawkeyemorelikehawkaye, Narmo, Rotom310, Madhattero6, La_alebrije, planetonic, ThatGay, GreyCrystal, starrscribbles, BackpackForHisApplesauce, amethystfairy, Fjc, YeYeboi, Sassyreader1536, Kattze, naamee, hiphopkids, ernisot, Musingelsewhere, alltehgayships, Airconhut, mochiboy_exe, BerserkBookWorm, Vondrakenhof, CallingVersatile, AwwKeyboardNo, JoshuaStar, McBlurry, ProtoChronicle, RaDioactiv6amr, Nightangel701, M4kki, Eye_Heart, Zetakh, AkiBlossom, Arise12, Nothosaurus, FireBoi47, PartywithA, Baerwald, sussuration, Sonicring123Dubs, Neptoons, MudaMudaYEET, artistofwarriors, Mercury_Eyes, DrakePegasus, SnuSnu461, Sparkly_14, Hexenwerk, lunati0ns, TheVoraciousReader, redhotshinigamichopper, Darking3, Frenchyaw, Kaleidoscope_Soundwaves, HappyCheese, Wolf_Claire, Inanity, AzureJaz, lunarwolf1248, CrashingStar, Ridiculously_Rainbow2812, LENOLEUM, artisticdragons, dumbquirkybitchboy, Bookworm574, Ash109, maeshmolowa, LuckyAshes, MadsNotMad, ShadowOfA_frostwolf, AGiantNerd, camrenismybae, KokoroHeart, Fandoom_Heart, Slackwork, Lycaonpictus77, Werederg, Reximus, GrommitDaBoi, Shy_but_Swears_a_Lot, kelp_face, Professional_Retard, WolfFurr, TotallyInLoveWithMikaelsons, Xgames, Asuna084, Abes_coffee, lycheemeyln, SpellingFascist, Sam9th, Dyslexic_linguist, AMills6593, SparkyScout, emberrskies, keonaona, Icouldbeahippie, Qiangda26, ZoeThePuppetmaster, 0Kyrie, Rosakikoza, Venn364, NastyNibbles, Sketchy_Artist, Yaoianimator, Ericabrt, GEODY, ive_been_losing_sleep, amity_is_a_luzbian, Firestar1245, BlehBlahBluh, Brony1984, weasel33, typicalpickle0, Lukas_Drake, Nervchen, Xentus, LexaIsMyCommander, AReaderWhoReads, venatorsinenomine, Leila_DaxX3, PBubz, ZipperDawn, XxCatradora_StanxX, Arken, Bear_o_dactyl95, myfineasymptote, TheLittleAstronautInSpace, JackSkeletron4ever, SadShyDragon, Khalida, musicalbaker59, Morg_and_amour, xoxoHannahxoxo, x_Lupie, BlazecamBR, GreatDayToBeGay, Blimbgis_the_Turgled, cassandrawasright, Tonykins2000, non_emotional_shorty, Iceyy, Visualwolf281, moneko, ilegendeumiru, Yellowbirdbluetoo, hannahvsc, YolkyWayGalaxy, Zyastrox, Badatartstuff, Dragon_lily, acardier, Cl4pTr4p, TroubleShark, Graywelin214, el521, Interwebs_Dweller, Ninguem_Chase, Zaelin, Yves_supremacy, earthcontrol, rstlss, Littlebigfrog, KenjiWreck, DustWeirdo28, Helo_K, Rae_S, bluecrystalqueen, starsaber123, yardsards, Ether360, bbsonofblue, Tawogfan2000, Silaluke, Dingleschmidt, Here_Charlie, catdragon, Rowboat129, Saradipity, JJ_2937, RtDK, Xenan, Senstarven91, Gingersoulstuck, ProfessorJupiter, Hugh_Jidiot, RiotM, Mork_dark_lord, Lemeringue, Random_Nobody, haha_funny, 3coco33, Shesjustgay, Fandumbass, Caitmarie20, TheOne12346, IdiotJuicyy, HotdogPunch, StormerRocks, UnLuckyOwl, gammarose, magical_cactus, Halloweenlord, Outcasts_Anonymous, thewinterunicorn, EpicGamerCraft12, WaterDragonMaverick, Blue_Gold20, Chipped, Pixelshadow, Ssgcp, NotAWerewolf42, Work_Of_Art, DigiWrites, AtomicGalaxy, Fyrefox666, CatThestral497, Buckley2912, TigerLilly22, AllosaurusJei, Phro, Thing_Of_Trash, Biatriz, Direwolf155, ZedNeb, TheAngriestGay, UncleYetibacca, LunarNightingales8, Emmy984, SapphireSkeletons, Silvershihouin, SSSilverFox, Ixiox, pyren, ShadowQueen01, KakoshiHatake, Errorchild, Goldragon, milkandcookieshero, pandorasbloxx, Firespark, marshmellowpup, RandomSpiritless, DragonsRunWild, ImBadAtNamingThings, Book_Wyrm24, Bifolium, Buddikit, Blackstar1707, Rootless_Lexicon, All_I_Really_Want_Is_An_Eggroll, Cinnabunny, IAmAPackOfRedSoloCups, seeyal8er, William_Furno, mosslynx, Jane_Wolf, Calworks, Purplegirlreads, CMCake, Antinaka, Minerbuilder12, AceWolvezRock, Elderon, SpazeUnofficial, Fandom_Menace, TheTrueAngryBanana, Master_A, a_pidgeon_in_action, RooFarmer, knightZ9, M0nr0_sapph, DarthVadersInhaler, Sparks52, Rossmonster01, Elypsus, LibraryForest, Random_dragon_fan, PrincevAshe, Splashy, itjustbelikethat, Skiddows, seasfire, EllyDespotOfChaos, AnazoySterch, CAT_2005, Raxize, cala__mar, ChaosIdeals, bilittleluz, WonkasTicket, Corvax, Shadowstone1, Smokestarrules, SingingSoul, sonicfan05, Girlcommaplease, Catrizia, PenguinW, Poison332, Anychan, DannyXV, Psiah, TheArgonaut, harukas_knight, TheSecretLifeofaFangirl, Hydden4ever, Tereviler, cheesencracker11, Ninja23, HopeYoureDoingGoodToday, Shadokin, Zaltia, JuliaCorvia, Stuck_in_theClouds, petthepuppy, lumidae, Echoustic, AzulMarino, R_RK, QueenKara671, KimChi236, iacobus1, evilminion, Harthic, Willow_U, Faded_Emerald, Lyra24, Fruisun, krzed, SonicTundra, Ranubis, EmberTheBee, ASociallyAwkwardDuckling, LokiDoki720, notjealous_justgay, fuckme_tenderly, SunvaarOwnerOfTaverns, 3artl3ss, fizzysodas, jemorca, ingenerationz, Robotdidi05, Anti_Jack, neo9044, MarysFanficDump, Rlv_29, ninappa, Vicky_Doo, nekcihc_yerewolf, Dinosaur1212, DaggerFork, darth_bat, Flightsy, Monte260, Blue_turtle516, Juliette_LaVie, Bgl0092, Lil_toaster, Hatelikingbatman, stars_and_wishes, pepto_bismol, HexdHeda, rubydusk13, MoonsetMoonrise, unto_the_aether, MysteryJake92, TheWarNaught, lioness21, nightliqhtss, Kanome, Somemars, Snowblossom, Skeik, pressured_star, TheCloudWinder, FlavoredMoon, Hellhound22, anotherblaszczak, Kiel_adair, Bluemidnight626, LochyNess, 1Kamiro7, Serinbre, Furbtastic, Lexa_Alycia, TwoDoors, StarChaser667, Syyy, vcpix, Couch_Cushions, Rolq, NutjobsCollection618, Pstachio, Wingedswordyunagi, Flameo326, SerendipitousLyss, hereforthegirlsandthegaysthatsit, the_Anonymous_Phantom9126, Petalsss, DragoEclipse, EnterNameHere, WarblyZombie, capegod, TheOriginalBIbred, Totsacat, Knight16, Undertrash12, shesimperfect, GladsomePraetorian, Stony_Lizaerd, thatgaypoetickid, thedoctorandpotter, Masterweaver, Sherry_A_H, Kainorian, bellamione17, Chaeyoungmoney, NanoCupcakes, Avangelion, Inqukoala, rubberducky39, godblesscicero, blackrosethorn, theboxduchess, blueaoineechan, happyflappy, Nitatu, frabbitry, lieskemc, valValiant, Mecha_Maid, Socc_in_the_cupboard, TairLaridus, Nach0Ava, Suibadui, itinkerbell115, Naraka, GalacticWinter, thewatcher509, luuvvy, radstarmuffin, CrownedRaven, xDesk, MaddieDanvers, 22037i, Grimperial, allwedoissurvive, BlackRaven25, SweetMaria56, ygoygo1, EsunTacoDeAsada, tashostash, Nightmare219453, sesquipedalianThaumaturge, Bookworm17225, Asiduusnihil, Archive_Of_Atlas, MarieChillOut, tm2dragon, LunaticStar, Reyna_is_epic, marszbar, ConceitedDemon, Gigafrog, Crazy_Angel_with_a_Shotgun, hxgwxrts, sattvrns, KingOfWhispers, LocalLurker, Spiresight, teethofHaros, Wisleylau, LoveDragon12, Voltaire_is_trash, Polaris04, argonlyzard, Undead_Crow, XboxRainbowDash, Chessthewriter, DreamSkp, thesucculentsquad, CapMorgan55, Lenchisus, Pepersteak, TheFanfictionqueen, Cynti6, AnnaRooma, molecule, Flying_Pinneaple, semie78, LittleGreyCells, Kirin2343, SpoopySis, SadaoMF15, tinyphrases, bucxys19, MrMakulu, Nettlebane, AlexVifor, the_one_with_the_plan, An_Ordinary_Writer, ZbrodniaIkara, juicesocks, Deathstroke3273, nescias, Carli003, elvis_prelsey, Enotich, Maluabboms, CapperDeacon, harmonia69, EndlessD, CMRC, Eienaru, 666PEACH666, lilmissaimee, Janinnus96, rosyredlipsticks, minjukangminju, Faded_Sunset, thegirlwholived119, Goldminer23, DJ_GRUMPS, sexycoomer, AuroraEnder, TheMathog, Churrochick, pokemonkatia168757, jaybird254, jessiecsc1998, Blutstrom, Magicfoxwrites, Scraxsm_ttx, thatlesbiannerd, Abbey_Aizawa, ConstantlyConfused, Cudowny, Jid123, screamingatstars, malkex, XYZTPQ, Pegg08, HorizontalSplash, Kayslay, Lumity, tlok_is_bad, FlamingPotatoArson, Fenrir_del_Daich, Strayfang, HanNah_42, ShinyCharX, Pir8_6The9_Legend, elliebug15, avintageoilpaintingofyou, Yaxus_18, Dragonblade722, lotsofloveann, drawing4memysterious, girlgroup, Im_here_to_steal_all_your_food, WilhelmAres, Frostea, skellyzolo, AuthorialLurker, Aknolan, thwewolfgamer, Area_Monarch, Nacepry, xAmaiBoo, mistyheartrbs, TheLittleSeeker, NeoSeoul, contInuousIncoherentscreamIng, DragonGirl316, MudstheChampion, AnimalKrazed, Wellineverthoughtidgetthisfar, flaming_disaster_bi, Moonslayer443, Tethysus, Alecscribbles, march4fun, SucksToBeing, wolfhawk47, narinahit, Flame_Diaz1, October_heart, DemonFox287, Nachtnight, J0hnny0hm, DarthMatthew, shortschnee, Ravenk, StarlightNyxKnight, Xyrehn, Avi_Usagi, Panther4life, TheBestGamer, ninjapaw, FusionMonkey3, ShambolicShenanigans, CleoTheConfuzzled, Tabuschka, Ink_stained_quills, NBLink, Pulgisima, FriendlyLegoPerson, Hushman, bubblebuster, lastroseofrwby, PJ_exe_has_stopped_working, Xenpachii, Drewwoody22, Alicord, UltimateFenris, Diomedeidae, Chikifumoto, cxshnnn, kerryberry, Hibiscus02, dah884, Halfmoon_Sparkle, CuddlyCookie1360, BAAAAKING, UltimateAvengers, VioletMoon123, CG25256, Aceilux, 3Aku3, MagicWhiskers_29, DippeySause, WolfyGames14, maxcau51, BagelStorm, Cooler9273, MatteBlack_MatteWhite, GoldenDragonFox, SunflowerFangirl, BeastialMoon, Xenon123, GodOfHobos, Silvery_Soul, Comicgeek20, SkylerMoon, TheFishQueen, Soulfyre, dzjoey, DumbassGay, Wxlipse, MenacingUwU, IcyGauntlet, Dominotheninja, Knollem, anon_lavender, Call_Me_Atlas, marstars, lightworlddrifter, antitouwu, fish0029, alisson_exe, Snow_Leopard69, beagremlin, hprse, allenVth, GillyTweed, PinaMoo, Wolfykit, IAmNotCreativeEnoughForThis, 22satan, lesbiantoddhoward, SamanthaMorningstar, Karatewolf27, Laryzinha15, Jigger4, AkatsukinoRuby, asterd, Meaner_than_my_demons, alrightheresali, STContinuum, TheGayWorm26, TheBaneofthenightserpent, thatcrazymexican10, Skwimby, swinterswonderland, LunaticAtBest, Tokyo_Good_Afternoon, Marcequeen, mstrmstry24, CoughingFits, GardenerGulfie, lht34, Logan_wont_sleep, Assassin_Akame, find_your_totino, helenwashere, Lumity_487mure, GrandfatherSam, GreyRail, Unlikely_Moors, DudeImFluid, Amber3, not_bobo, FoxOnPie, DooDooDit, diiiegciss, SiimpCiity, Foroan, Lionheart261, Gremlin_666, Kamuraqi, mannythebadger, Chuck_Vic_Norris, AkiraADV, Pine_Orange, RowletOwlet, AdorablyGlimmer, SlytherinHeir163, EvilChameleon, Alittlecaughtinthemiddle, GoG_Kudos, Keeper_of_BEEES, nightmaster000, Talafairy, arendellesfirstwinter, Drinkstomuchcoffee, ItsaFawx and Paola13
             as well as 
          1664 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
