      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Not Rated
              Archive Warning:
               Graphic Depictions Of Violence
              Category:
               Gen
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationships:
               Todoroki Shouto &amp; Original Female Character(s)Aizawa Shouta | Eraserhead &amp; Original Character(s)Everyone &amp; EveryoneClass 1-A (My Hero Academia) &amp; Original Character(s)
              Characters:
               Todoroki ShoutoAizawa Shouta | EraserheadYamada Hizashi | Present MicYaoyorozu MomoMidoriya IzukuClass 1-A (My Hero Academia)Jirou KyoukaKaminari DenkiYagi Toshinori | All Mightbasically everyone ok?Original Female Character(s)Yukiyama Kibo | OCYukiyama Jiko | OCYukiyama Shizuka | OCInou Richi | OCShinsou HitoshiSuzushi Hakai | Taimuterā | OC
              Additional Tags:
               Implied/Referenced Child AbuseChild AbusePast Child AbuseMartial ArtsImplied/Referenced Character Deathit’s an oc thoughImplied/Referenced Domestic ViolenceMental Health IssuesMemesVinesTextingit’s not thoFanfictionBooksBook ReferencesSwearingBakugou Katsuki Swears A LotOc swears a lotCharacters Writing Fanfiction#LetAizawaSleep2020will add more tags as i post chaptersWeekly UpdatesDadzawaDadzawa - An Aizawa Shota ZineParental Aizawa Shouta | EraserheadBloodGoreAngstOriginal Character Replaces Mineta MinoruConspiracy Theorist Todoroki ShoutoConspiraciesTheoriesdumb shenanigansChatting and messagingQueerplatonic Relationshipsslight vent ficI swear this fanfic is actually a chat fic in disguise
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Flip Coin Au’s series
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-02Updated:2020-10-10Words:1559Chapters:2/40Comments:3Kudos:5Bookmarks:3Hits:36
      Flip a coin, and you’ll see me
      Elfy_Elf
          Summary:
              Kibo is the daughter of the infamous S-ranked villain, Taimuterā. She was trained to rule her father’s criminal organization, and become a villain greater than All For One. But when her mother is murdered, she snaps. Kibo escapes with her little brother, Shizuka, and calls the heroes. She is adopted by her martial arts teacher and best friend Yukiyama Jiko, and now she lives a semi-normal life. But Kibo still struggles with the pain of her past, and barely interacts with anyone outside of her family. When she enters U.A, she brings a fresh set of burdens and secrets that she carries alone, but how long will it be before she snaps?(Shenanigans, fluff and angst will ensue. Also, will update summary soon.)
  Notes:
      Hey guys! Thanks for checking this story out!! I’ve had this idea in my head for a while now (and when I say while, I mean a few months), so I have everything worked out! Updates our every Friday (though I do have a ton of tests coming up so I might be late). Please comment, leave kudos, and enjoy!
      Chapter 1: Here I go looking ahead—I’m starting again.
        Notes:
          The chapter title is from the song Starting Again.MINOR EDIT: I changed the age of Jiji.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
      Kibo Yukiyama likes hoodies. She likes the soft feeling of it on her skin, and the largeness of it covering—almost sheltering her. She likes that she can hide in the oversized hood whenever she is feeling overwhelmed, and—most importantly— that the long sleeves hide her scars. Her scars, the ones she bore as a reminder of her roots— who she used to be— marred her skin, and if even one of them were seen, Kibo knew she was done for. So it is exactly because of these reasons that she wears a baggy, used hoodie to the entrance exam. U.A is huge— to say the least. Its gates are massive, towering over Kibo’s slumped figure. Though, these days, almost everything towers her. “Excuse me, are you lost?” A blue-haired boy asks her, in a tone that one would reserve for small children. Kibo holds back an exasperated sigh, and responds, “I’m older than I look. I’m here for the entrance exam.” The boy looks taken-aback, and apologises immediately, “I humbly apologise for my rudeness! I should have been able to—“ Kibo almost rolls her eyes right there and then. “It’s fine,” she interrupts, “everyone assumes I’m a kid until they meet me. You’re no exception.”She then walks off, because she has absolutely no idea how to continue the conversation.Later, in the auditorium, she sees the boy again, moving his hands in an almost robotic manner, scolding a green-haired boy.(Of course, that’s after she sees Present Mic and almost has a heart attack, because that’s Present freaking Mic, her brother’s idol.) She tunes them out, and focuses on the exam. To be honest, Kibo knows she’ll do well in both exams— hell, she’ll probably get one of best scores in the entire damn system— but she can’t help but feel anxious. What if they recognise me? What if they recognise my father? Relax, the logical side of her brain says, I’ve got a new name, my hair is dyed, and I act nothing like him. They won’t find out.But what if they do? The principal of this school is fucking Nedzu, the smartest rat in the world! He’ll definitely figure out who I am, she thinks nervously. Now that Kibo thinks about it, that could be a very big problem. 
  Ohhh shit. Look, just focus on passing, ok?
Kibo almost scoffs at the thought, because me not worry? That’s an abomination in itself.Kibo shakes herself out of her thoughts, and looks at Present Mic, who is finishing up his speech. “The room to my left is where you’ll take the written exam. Hurry off, little listeners!” Present Mic says, and Kibo walks out. Luckily, the written exam is easier than she thought it would be, so Kibo breezes through it. Next up is the physical exam, and Kibo is located to Arena B. There are robots. In a mock city.Sometimes, Kibo wonders how U.A gets the funds for it, and then she accepts that it’s one of those mysterious that no one ever gets to the bottom of.“AAAAAND START!” Present Mic’s voice is heard throughout all the arenas. An ashy blond boy blasts himself towards the first robot and blows it up, and with that, all the other contestants attacking robots. Kibo finds a cylinder-shaped piece of metal, and uses it as a weapon against a nearby robot. Kibo feels a tingle in the left side of her skull, and moves to the right, narrowly dodging a robot. She stabs the centre of the robot.This is easier than I thought it would be, She thinks, and then runs off to find more robots.After the exam is finished, Kibo leaves U.A feeling satisfied. She has at least 30 points, which is enough to get into U.A. But, as soon as she starts feeling relaxed, the full force of her quirk exhaustion hits her all at once.(The robot steps to the right crushing her tiny body— stop— a badly aimed explosion throws a chunk of concrete at her— STOP—a splash of acid hits her face melting away her skin— STOP—a shard of metal sinks into her arm— STOP!)
  Breathe in
  Breathe out
  Breathe in
  Breathe out
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
  6
  7
  8
  9
  10
Once Kibo calms down, she sits on a nearby bench, and takes out her quirk-suppressing pills. They were specifically made for when her quirk’s side effects would get out of hand. She drinks it down with water, and stands up again.It’s time for a jog, she decides, and quickly texts her sister.  
  :Me
I’m coming a bit late, just taking a quick jog  Jiji-nee responds immediately. 
  Jiji-nee:
Sure （＾∇＾）I know how ur quirk exhstion gets 2 u so if rnning helps go for it!!! Kibo smiles, even if Jiji-nee was the one who adopted her, she still viewed her as an older sister rather than a parent. 
  :Me
Wow, your typing skills have actually worsenedI nearly didn’t think it was possible 
  Jiji-nee: 
 Besdies ths s prper wy 2 typeKibo stared at her screen. 
  :Me
Why must you do this to me 
  Jiji-nee:
٩(๑❛ᴗ❛๑)۶ 
  :Me
You know, you act way less mature than someone who is meant to be 23  
  Jiji-nee: 
ヽ(￣д￣;)ノ You act way to old for someone who is only 15 Anywhoo, I gtg :( bye 
  :Me
Bye Kibo switches off her phone, and starts her jog.A few weeks later, the exam results come back. Kibo scores second place on the exam, with 44 villain points and 31 rescue points. Jiji, Shizuka and her celebrate with ice-cream and cake. Kibo is left with a smile on her face at the end of the party, and overall, she considers it a success.  This is my first step to becoming a hero, and undoing all the wrong my father has done. 
        Notes:
          Yay! End of chapter!! I know this first chapter was short, but the next will be longer. Tell me what you think about the characters and what you think Kibo’s quirk is in the comments!
      Chapter 2: I won’t be caught in the moment— I’m starting again
        Notes:
          Ok, so I know I said every Friday, but I caught up with work, and tests, so yeah. Anyway, thanks for the comments and the bookmarks, and keep ‘em coming!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    A few days after Kibo got the results, she moved into an apartment. Even though Hosu was only an hour away from Mustafu, it would take longer to go to U.A. And Jiji-nee couldn't move with her, because her dojo was in Hosu. Hence, the decision to get an apartment. At the beginning, Kibo thought it was a good idea; it would teach her to about being independent. But no one could have expected her accidentally causing a kitchen fire. And breaking the kettle. And burning three of the kitchen gloves. And— well, you get the idea. 
  [Call From: Jiji-nee]
  [Accept/Decline]
  [Accept]
 “Kibo, how do you manage to be so bad at cooking?”“I don’t know, okay!?”The next few weeks were divided up between reading books, reading fanfiction, and visiting her younger brother. Her brother, Shizuka, lived in Mustafu Hospital. When they escaped from their father’s house, he had lost so much blood that he went into a coma. The trauma suppressed all memories of the past, and since he had been in a coma for so long— six months— he had trouble speaking, and saying sentences. He found it easier to sign, which was why Jiji-nee and Kibo both learnt JSL.To be honest, Kibo was jealous of Shizuka. He could forget all about their past, about their father, about their mother, about everything, but she couldn’t. She had to wake up in the morning, see herself in front of a mirror, and immediately be reminded of him. Shizuka didn’t.
  “Go on,” A man in a gold suit taunted, “Go further.”
  Kibo looked at him anxiously, then took a step forward. And screamed.
Kibo’s eyes flew open. She sat up, and examined her shaky hands. It was just a nightmare, she tells herself. Her hands continue shaking.
  Searches: 
  How to stop your hands from shaking
  How to stop having nightmares
  PTSD
  How to stop dreaming
  :Me
?How do I put on make-up 
  Jiji-nee:
  What have you done
  :Me
!!I didn’t do anything?Why must you always assume that
  Jiji-nee: 
Exibit A: Kitchen FireExhibit B: Almost breaking the TVExhibit C: Actually breaking the kettleDo i need to give more evidence? 
  :Me
?It’s for school, ok  
  [Video Call From: Jiji-nee]
  [Accept/Decline]
  [Accept]
  “Ok, so the first thing you do is—“
  “Go on,” The man taunts, “Go further.”
  Kibo steps forward, and screams.
“Go on,” he taunts, “Go further.”
  ’Stop’ Kibo thinks, ‘don’t go!’
  Kibo  ｓｃｒｅａｍｓ
Kibo wakes up in a cold sweat for the fifth night in a row.Kibo stares at herself in the mirror. She stares at the scars. Then, slowly, remembering what Jiji-nee had said, she puts make-up on her skin.Kibo looks at the books on her bookshelf. Most of them are pre-quirk books, but there are a set of books that are different from the rest. They are covered in dust, and look faintly like notebooks. Kibo takes a step forward, hand reaching out towards the old books, and quickly pulls it back.Not today, she thinks.Kibo wakes up at five am, and for once, it is not because of a nightmare. It’s May 1, the day that classes at U.A start. She wakes up, and sees a message on her phone. 
  Jiji-nee: 
Good luck, kiddo!Knock ‘em dead Kibo smiles, and climbs out of bed. She needs to get ready for school.
        Notes:
          Ok, so tell me your thoughts about this chapter!! I know I didn’t include her going to U.A yet, but I figured since there was so much going on here, it wouldn’t make sense to fit it in. Also, May 1 isn’t actually the day term 1 at U.A starts, i just made it up. Leave kudos, comments, and enjoy!!
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Flip Coin Au’s series
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (3)
  Comments
          Sabi15 and prettyflyforacacti
             as well as 
          3 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
                    Offscript
              on Chapter 1
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 12:15PM EDT 
        Interesting! Looking forward to more :)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Elfy_Elf
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 02:30AM EDT 
        Thanks!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    prettyflyforacacti
              on Chapter 2
            Sat 10
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 07:31AM EDT 
        This is really interesting, I can't wait to see what happens next!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
