      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "sherlock (tv)" m/m NOT "sherlock holmes/john watson"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Is he having a seizure?
2. Ben wakes up
3. Out of Reginald's
4. At Elliott's
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Fandom:
               The Umbrella Academy (TV)
              Additional Tags:
               Stuttering Diego HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves Needs HelpKlaus Hargreeves WhumpKlaus Hargreeves-centricPanic AttacksProtective Allison HargreevesHurt Klaus HargreevesHurt/ComfortSick Klaus HargreevesSick CharacterHeadaches &amp; MigrainesDiego Hargreeves Needs A HugKlaus Hargreeves Deserves BetterSober Klaus HargreevesGood Sibling Allison HargreevesGhost Ben HargreevesBen Hargreeves Needs A HugProtective Ben HargreevesProtective Diego HargreevesProtective Luther HargreevesPOV Ben HargreevesGood Sibling Number Five | The BoyGood Sibling Diego HargreevesGood Sibling Luther HargreevesSeizuresNumber Five | The Boy Has IssuesAllison Hargreeves Needs A HugBen Hargreeves &amp; Klaus Hargreeves FriendshipBen Hargreeves Gets a HugKlaus Hargreeves Needs A HugLuther Hargreeves Needs A HugSoft Luther Hargreeves
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-09-24Updated:2020-10-06Words:6770Chapters:4/?Comments:23Kudos:131Bookmarks:11Hits:2012
      Is he having a seizure?
      JenCohen
      Chapter 4: At Elliott's
          Summary:
            Five lands with Klaus at Elliott's and realizes he's getting weaker by the second.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    The first thing Five did when he arrived with an unconscious Klaus to Elliott's was checking his pulse. Luckily his calculations had been correct and he landed on the bed on the second floor, it would have been really difficult to move an unconscious body by himself with a thirteen year old strength. His heart was racing thinking he might have been hurt in the travel. With trembling hands, that were very unusual on him, he reached and touched klaus' neck timidly. The pulse was there, it was barely noticeable but it was there. He breathed a sigh of relief. He was still alive and they could work with alive. His relief couldn't been complete, he still hadn’t recovered consciousness, and he was still putting too much effort into drawing a single breath. It almost seemed like it hurt every time he tried. “why was he so out of breath? That wasn’t normal; when people have a seizure they normally recover after a few hours”. Five thought with a frown across his face. He shouldn’t be so weak, it had been almost 2 hours since all this craziness started to happen. He looked at Klaus and realized that his face and his whole body was covered in sweat, if he wasn’t unconscious he would definitely be asking for a hot bath. He thought about moving him, put some comfortable clothes on and maybe even helping him to take a bath but he wouldn’t be able to do it alone, even though Klaus was very skinny he knew he wouldn’t be able to lift him and taking him to the bathroom. He knew Ben was there but he couldn’t do absolutely anything if he wasn’t corporeal. Suddenly, Klaus started stirring on the bed and mumbling, he trashed on the bed like if it was covered in nails. “Klaus, calm down” He was having a nightmare, of course, that was just his luck. When Five approached him to attempt to calm him he felt the heat radiating from this body. Of course, they were soo lucky, he had a fever. He touched his forehead and was taken aback by the heat suddenly making its way into his hands. He didn’t only have a fever “he is burning up, damn it”.“Ben, I know you’re here. Please, keep an eye on him while I go outside and call the others to see if they’re any closer; also, where’s that damn doctor?”. He said looking beside Klaus where he assumed Ben would be. Ben was there of course, by Klaus’ side, panicking for a third time on the same day. “I’ll take care of him”.  Five left without waiting for a response, he wouldn’t be able to hear it anyway. “Klaus, I’m here. I’m not leaving you. You just have to hold on”. And just like that, Klaus opened his eyes. They were glassy and unfocused, looking everywhere before they landed on Ben. “Where ‘m I?” he said, feeling sleepy. “You’re at Elliott’s. Five went to check on the others, they’re on the way” Wisely Ben chose not to tell him about the doctor, he would only freak out.  “why …feel s’ bad?”“I don’t know. We’re going to find out, buddy. Just rest, ok?” he said with an apologetic look on his face. “’m hot”“I know. You have a fever, I think you will have to take some medication”“Benny, s’ber, can’t” he said like a little child about to do something forbidden by his parents. “Yeah buddy, but I think some fever medication is ok” He let out a little smirk, Klaus was truly like a little child everytime he got sick. “We’re here” Five said loudly entering the house, clearly talking to an unresponsive Ben and an unconscious Klaus. Klaus was very happy to hear his siblings voices, everybody rushing to the second floor, he tried to get up and noticed he still couldn’t. He couldn’t catch a break. “Klaus, hey bro, how you feeling?” That was Diego, sitting beside him on the bed. “n’ good. Hot”“Hot?” he reached for his forehead with the back of his hand. “Damn it, he’s burning up”“I know. Diego, don’t freak out” Five knew how overprotective Diego got everytime something happened to Klaus. “We’ll give him some fever reducers, see if that helps”Eager to have something to do Luther offered to bring them and left without waiting for approval. “Luther ok?” Klaus said with a frown on his face. “Yeah, he’s just scared” said Vanya laughing shyly.The doorbell rangEverybody knew it was the doctor Five had talked to but they couldn’t tell Klaus, he would very probably freak out at the thought of someone prodding him with sharp objects which was ironic since he was so used to it from his time on the street. “I’ll take it, Allison, stay with him just in case” Said Diego and left. “case of what?” Klaus said looking for any kind of response, he was starting to get suspicious. Allison just nodded and grabbed his hand. Out of the blue, a man appeared on the doorstep, it was someone that Klaus had never seen. He looked like an adorable grandpa, was carrying a bag and had glasses on. He didn’t even ask who he was, he was distracted just looking at him. “You must be Klaus”“Don’t know if I m’st be” a smirk visible on his face. “Klaus!” Allison said like a mom arguing with her son. “S’rry, yeah”“They tell me you’re really sick, is it okay if I come any closer?” He just nodded. “I’m here to check what’s wrong with you and to try and help you feel better, okay? They told me you have a little fear of hospitals?”He just nodded again. Making himself smaller on the bed. Already feeling the panic rise to his chest. He squeezed Allison’s hand strongly. “Okay, I don’t think it’s necessary to take you to the hospital, I think we can manage it here. Do you guys think you can leave us alone for a few minutes so I can examine him?” he said addressing to everyone on the room. “N…noo, pl’ase” said Klaus grabbing Allison’s hand and not letting her go. "You'll stay with Ben, honey. He'll take care of you" said Allison brushing her fingers over his hair. That seemed to make klaus a little bit calmer. "We'll be right outside, okay bro?" Diego said looking at him right in the eyes. “Ok”"Come closer?" Said klaus looking directly at Ben. He just nodded and smiled a little while the doctor looked at the empty space klaus was looking at. Klaus had been terrified at the whole process, he decided to focus on Ben and the reassuring phrases he kept repeating over and over again. He had shivered at the thermometer in his mouth, the placing of the IV and even more when the doctor told him he would have to place an oxygen mask over his face, it was too big for his liking and it made him feel claustrophobic. When he started to squirm in the bed protesting against the oxygen mask he heard something that terrified him even more "klaus, I need you to understand that your breathing is not good at all, you're draining your energy even more every time you take a breath. This is a prevention measure, I need to monitor you closely and I'm sorry but if your breathing keeps getting worse I'll have to hook you up to a breathing machine so we can give your body some time to heal" Klaus shivered at the thought, if he was feeling claustrophobic with an oxygen mask he couldn't even imagine how a tube down his throat would make him feel. After what seemed like several hours the doctor came out of the room to address the expectant glazes of the five siblings.Five and Diego stood up as the rest fixed their place in their sits. "Well, I took some blood work but it seems like he is completely drained out of energy. His blood pressure is really low. It's like his body is shutting down because he doesn't have enough strength to keep it going. I put him in an IV and on oxygen so his body doesn't put on too much effort breathing and has a chance to recover. I already informed him the possibility of a breathing machine in case his breathing doesn't improve but we don't have to get into that now""I'm sure he didn't like that" Diego interrupted for a brief moment. "He sure didn't but it's something we have to consider. I hope it doesn't get to that" he continued. "his fever is very high, I already added some fever reducers on his IV. However, he might need to have a bath with lukewarm water. Don't put him in iced water. He could go into shock. Now, I know he doesn't like hospitals but if he doesn't improve in a few hours I think you'll have to take him to one. There's only so much I can do here" "Thanks doc, I promise we'll take him if it's necessary" Luther answered not knowing if the rest agreed or not. Everybody was just letting the information sink in. "I'll walk you out" he said standing up from his seat. The first to enter the room was Diego. As soon as he entered he realized how small klaus looked, his eyes were closed but he wasn't asleep, he had an IV on his right arm and the oxygen mask over his face. Its constant hiss filled the room. "Di..hey..." He opened his eyes and reached for the oxygen mask over his face until Diego's hand stopped him "Leave that there. You need it. I don't want you taking anything off by yourself, do you hear me, dumbass?" Klaus smiled at the name calling, he was finally being treated like normal and oh, God bless Diego for trying to relieve the tension in the room. "Ok. Where ... the rest?""They're just outside. They'll get in, in a bit. Your fever is really high and we have to help you take a bath. I think you'll like it"When Luther returned and entered the room everybody was ready to help out. The boys were helping klaus get undressed and wrapped up in a towel so it didn't have to be more uncomfortable than it already was. Klaus was jokingly talking to Ben the whole time. "Remember …first time…you saw m’ naked?" Diego and Five rolled their eyes to the comments every few minutes even though they couldn't hear Ben's sides of the jokes but thanked he wasn't panicking as before. Ben wanted to help but it wasn't possible. Klaus couldn't even think about manifesting him, he needed to save all the energy he could. The boys managed to get klaus naked without touching any of the medical equipment hooked up to him. They put a towel around his waist. As soon as he was standing up he started swaying in his feet, he felt incredibly dizzy; he hadn’t gotten up since he had the seizure nearly two hours ago. Diego was already beside him supporting him and half carrying him with his arm around his waist. He could feel how just standing up made his breathing worse. He felt his ragged breathing but couldn’t say anything that would make Klaus panic. The oxygen mask fogged everytime he drew a breath. “You think you can walk to the bathroom?” Klaus nodded but as soon as he attempted to take a step he tumbled and fell into Diego’s arm. “Yeah, sure” he said with a smirk. Diego was getting ready to pick Klaus up and carry him bridal style when Luther interrupted “I’ll do it”Diego left him as he knew he had a less chances to hurt Klaus on the process. For Luther carrying Klaus was like lifting a leaf and even though Klaus was very light it would take Diego a little bit more effort than that. Carefully, Luther placed his left arm under Klaus knees and his right across his armpits, he tried to be as careful as he could be not to hurt him and not to mess with the medical equipment he had to be hooked up to. Klaus inmediately looked for comfort on Luther’s chest, he left his head snuggle on his sweater while they made it to the bathroom. Diego was carrying the oxygen tank hooked to the mask and Five the IV pole. They tried to be as gentle as they could to avoid causing him any discomfort. When they got to the bathroom Klaus was almost asleep, being lifted and cuddling in Luther’s chest was strangely comfortable. Allison and Vanya had prepared the bath for when the boys arrived. It was perfect for them to put Klaus in, not too cold, not too hot, they had to be careful though, they couldn’t get the medical equipment wet but they still had to submerge Klaus’ body for the bath to be effective. Diego took off his towel and Klaus didn’t even notice, that was a little bit worrying. When they started lowering him into the bathub he started to open his eyes, he looked around the room as if he didn’t understand what was happening, he was floating on top of the bathub held by Luther and Diego’s hands. Ben tried to comfort him, he knew how confused he was feeling. “Your fever is very high, they brought you to the bathroom and they ran a bath to help you, you have to stay still, you have the oxygen mask and the IV on and you can’t, please, don’t take them off”. He listened as attently as he could withwhat he felt was the heat boiling his brain. As soon as his body touched the water he felt as if he was being touched with ice cubes, either the water was very cold or he was very hot. He started trashing trying to break free from his brothers embrace which only seemed to get tighter. “I’m sorry, bud, but we have to” that was Diego. “Keep lowering him into the bath, we can’t stop now” And of course, that was Luther, “he was such a prick” Klaus thought allowing his body to turn and look at their faces, they all looked worried, tired and even sick. They weren’t doing this to be mean, it was noticeable that they were mortified by it. He then let them lower him into the water without trashing too much. Luther was careful to let his right arm with the IV on, out of the water and kept holding his body even though the bathub wasn’t deep at all. Diego was holding his head out of the water, he put both his hands under his neck to keep it out of the water and also, he guessed, to support his head. He felt like a puppet without strings under their embrace, he had no strength at all, he couldn’t fight against the feeling of being cared for like a little child. Five was staring at the IV and the oxygen tank making sure they were working properly and Allison was crouched down next to Klaus putting a wet sponge on his forehead and his hair, very careful not to startle him. “Don’t move, I want to get some water on your head, see if that helps. Guys, you think we could take him off the oxygen for a minute? I want to put some ice packs on his cheeks and his neck” Inmediately Klaus smiled at the thought of being finally free, even if it was for a few minutes, off the oxygen mask he had grown to hate in less than an hour. “I think we could do it, just for a minute” Five said frowning his face, not sure if it was the right decision to make. They gently took off Klaus’ oxygen mask and Allison ran the ice pack throughout his whole face, landing on his cheeks and his neck for a minute. “feels good” she heard Klaus say. She smiled warmly at him “I think I’m done, we can put it back on”“no…no… please…no” Klaus started to try and get off the bathub as if he had enough strength. His attempts were quickly stopped by Luther who was still holding his body and Diego “sorry bud, but we can’t risk it. You’re already sicker and weaker than you should be, you need it, ok?” he gave up, just nodded and allowed for Five to put the mask back on. There was no point in trying to avoid it, it was still better than a breathing tube. There was an unbearable silence in the whole room, everybody was worried and no one dared to say a single word. “guys..talk, dead people are more talkative than you guys”. “Sorry, we’re just really worried” Allison let out with a smile on her face. Just like that everybody relaxed a little and started to hear a really long story Allison was telling checking out Klaus every two seconds. “Guys, stop… hovering, I’m… ok” Said Klaus, annoyed to be in such a spotlight. “You have an incredibly high fever, are in a bathub without being able to support your own weight, you’re not ok” said Diego trying not to sound so harsh. “I know, I know …..but just, …. don’t look ‘t me all the time” he remembered that he was naked and althought he wouldn’t normally have a problem with that, being there, vulnerable and held by his brothers made him feel queasy. He wasn’t used to all of the attention. “You’re shivering” Allison’s voice interrupted his thoughts. “Am I?”“Yeah, you’re whole body is shivering and you’re clenching your teeth, I think it’s enough for today”Everybody nodded and started to get ready to lift Klaus from the tub. Diego was the first to reposition to be able to hold more than Klaus’ head, Luther stood up and kept holding the mayority of Klaus’ body, trying to be as gentle as possible. “Guys, … dignity” Klaus said pointing at his very visible naked body. “Yeah, here, wrap him in this towel, I’ll look for something for him to wear” said Five blinking out of the room. When they arrived to the room, they placed Klaus in the bed and waited for Five to return with some clothes, as Klaus felt more comfortable with the girls helping him to get dressed, he asked them if they could do it. The girls quickly started to dress him into some sweat pants and a hoodie, so unlike Klaus, but very comfortable to sleep on.
        Notes:
          I tried to write a little bit more than I had before. I hope you like it, I'm still thinking on an ending, I think it's going to be on the next chapter. Thanks guys!
  Notes:
  Hi guys! This is my first work, I'm just obsessed with season 2 of Umbrella Academy and some of the things I wish had happened. Sorry, this is like a draft for me but I really wanted to start to write the story. Hopefully this didn't disappoint. Thanks for reading! :D
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          Nectarineghost, InterstellarLizard, willowphantom, mojenkins23, GlitterStarz1994, CrystalRainwing, Stuff_11232004, Yesterdays_Jam, pukwudgiequeen, Geschak, Dusty_roses, Day_Dreamer_19, dragonLeighs, Ashlynnetta, Hello_Trash, vita_brevis, Magedo19, neworld, shslcrybaby, Yuki_Kushina, Zotinha456, AelinArcheronUnnie, checkr1bored, promcake, raindrxpsonrxses, ICurlyHead, thanks_google, Oofboiyeet, AshleyMarie84, tiger_rose, red_and_gold, QuietWolf396, Jolmos256, Bdevodka, Skylerlover, wongway24601, supernaturallyzayn, iamspookydarknessanddeath, Kentgirl91, Spencer_B, missKafka, beauty_in_aces, GodofFire3, LMDR, CharlotteMerlin, excaliburandtheTARDIS, babi99, Nakygua, TiredAustralian, milefolio, 
               and 11 more users
            Zakhar, Starkillernoe, Gabry_Kaufmann, TheKeyMaster1986, FriendlyDragon, thequeenofthefallen, Angelpies_17, Gracie_km, Penislicker3121, Wisteria115 and Vigilant_Insomniac
             as well as 
          70 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
