      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               Multi
              Fandom:
               The Umbrella Academy (TV)
              Relationships:
               Diego Hargreeves/Lila PittsRaymond Chestnut/Allison HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves/David "Dave" KatzBen Hargreeves/JillSissy Cooper/Vanya HargreevesElliott Gussman &amp; Luther Hargreeves
              Characters:
               Number Five | The Boy (Umbrella Academy)The Hargreeves (Umbrella Academy)The Love InterestsBen Hargreeves
              Additional Tags:
               BirthdayBirthday PresentsFluffReunionsFive is a good brother
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-01Words:750Chapters:1/1Comments:8Kudos:74Bookmarks:8Hits:456
      It's Nothing, Really
      princejoopie
          Summary:
              Five surprises his family for their birthday.
  Notes:
      Heyyyy so I'm not super proud of this and I wrote it in like an hour or two but I couldn't not do something for their birthday, so here it is! I hope you enjoy!
        Work Text:
  He knew it wasn't much, but he was never very creative with gift ideas.
  He also knew it would probably fuck something up pretty badly. But he knew Herb would forgive him, and if he'd avoided two apocalypses so far, surely he could avoid another if need be.
  And besides, this just might be worth risking the end of the world for.
  "Alright, I'm gonna skip the formalities. We all know those aren't my strong suit," he said. He had his siblings all lined up in a row in the foyer, and was pacing back and forth in front of them. "So do we want to see the presents all at once or go individually?"
  "Whatever gets this over with faster," Diego said.
  "Okay, I know you're still bitter about getting you all stranded in the past-"
    "And
   getting a giant needle shoved into me instead of helping me break out of the asylum."
  "Still not apologizing for that one," Five said.
  Diego said, "Alright, I'm out of here," and turned around to break the line and walk toward the door.
  Five turned and called up the stairs, "Will gift number two come down please?"
  Diego turned back to look and saw Lila slowly descending the staircase. His eyes widened and he immediately ran up to the stairs, but stopped short just in front of her. "Lila, what- how did-" he spluttered out.
  She pulled him into a hug and said, "Missed you too, asshole."
  They both stepped aside as Five said, "Can gifts one, three, four, six, and seven join us too?"
  One by one, they made their way down the stairs. A stick-thin man looking around in nervous amazement, a dark-skinned man with a huge grin on his face, a bright-eyed man with curly blonde hair, a woman with glasses and a light turquoise outfit, and a blonde woman in a patterned skirt.
  Five didn't even have time to ask, "So, what do you think?" before his siblings were all running at their lovers and friends.
  Elliott and Luther immediately struck up a conversation about time travel as Lila, Ray, Dave, and Sissy showered their respective partners in hugs and kisses, and Jill stood off to the side next to Five.
  When Klaus looked away from Dave for long enough to register her presence, he said, "Wait, you're Ben's crush, right?"
  She nodded, ducking her head down sheepishly.
  "But Ben's… Five, you know Ben's not…"
  "He's not here anymore," Vanya chimed in. "I thought… I thought you knew that."
  "Well…" Five mumbled. "That's… the other thing." He gestured back up to the stairs, and the siblings all watched in astonishment as their brother emerged, looking just how Klaus and Vanya remembered him, and very much alive.
  Ben could barely make it down the stairs and say, "Hey guys," before all of his siblings were on him, hugging and crying and all saying how much they missed him.
  After a moment, Klaus turned to Five and scooped him up into a big hug, as Five just awkwardly patted his back and waited to be set back down. When Klaus did, he wiped some of the tears from his own face and said, "Thank you so much."
  All of the others started repeating variations of, "Thank you, 
    thank you," 
  again and again, and Five just stood there and tried not to blush.
  "I thought we all agreed not to do presents this year," Luther said, "Just dinner."
  Five waved him off and said, "It was nothing, really. And besides, we don't exactly have the best track record with family dinners."
  Allison stepped forward and asked, "Well, what about 
    you?
   You deserve something too."
  "It's not a big deal," Five replied. "Having Ben back is enough. I don't need anything else."
  Vanya said, "Well what about Dolores? We could find her and-"
  "No, no," Five interrupted. "We're both better off like this."
  "How about a few of us take you clothes shopping?" Klaus asked.
  "That… would actually be really nice," Five said, looking down at his same old uniform.
  "I wanna go!" Allison said quickly.
  Vanya smiled. "Yeah, me too!"
  Trying not to let his growing grin overtake his face, Five nodded and said, "Alright."
  Klaus planted one last kiss on Dave's lips, as Allison hugged Ray, and Sissy said, "You all have fun now."
  Taking his brother's hand, Klaus pulled Five along toward the door as the girls caught up, and Five was left thinking to himself, 
    'Best birthday ever.'
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (8)
  Comments
          bipidin, Eddiie_Tweeky, Something_Clever_or_Not, Hitsujiuu, Anongirl, Norronmyte, evelinaonline, WAFFI, Beanbean0910, omega_muffin, VianaDAscolli, mamamiaherewegoagain, monalisa123, aelisheva, cerysjane, RogueWarrior3, TheLightOfDarkness95, cresentwitch, apocalypticwaffles, my_middle_name_is_awkward, LaceratedLullabies, Sciencemage, ToBeLonely, Ariyana, RamonaDreams, Olsh821, teamilk, VioletFolgi, Shyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy, Jocasta_Alowish, foreos, beauty_in_aces, loves_unkind, deansgirl241, mrs_sakuma, promcake, LoveThatAccent, headfirstch13k0, Lilyy_918, and milksencha
             as well as 
          34 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          This work's creator has chosen to moderate comments on the work. Your comment will not appear until it has been approved by the creator.
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
                    foreos
            Thu 01
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 09:46PM EDT 
        awwwww
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    VioletFolgi
            Thu 01
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 11:15PM EDT 
        THIS WAS SO SOFT I CAN'T--
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Ariyana
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 01:07AM EDT 
        All these birthday fics are killing me with all these feelings. ;; That was so sweet! &lt;333
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    aelisheva
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 11:04AM EDT 
        "And besides, this just might be worth risking the end of the world for."ahhhhh this was so cute and sweet! the perfect s2 fix-it fic. i love how even though five wouldn't get dolores back for himself, he still got a present -- having a fun time shopping with his sibs &lt;3
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    VianaDAscolli
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 06:33PM EDT 
        AKDBSIANFWICNAISN THIS IS SO CUTE
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    WAFFI
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 12:08AM EDT 
        I love this! Literally made me smile so hard, thank you for writing this!!! this fic is a gift, and it isn't even my birthday yet.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    evelinaonline
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 02:10AM EDT 
        I AM EMOTIONAL AT 9AM ON A SATURDAY
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Anongirl
            Sat 03
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 01:42PM EDT 
        Awwwww fiveeeee
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
