      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               F/F
              Fandom:
               RWBY
              Relationship:
               Ruby Rose/Weiss Schnee
              Characters:
               Ruby Rose (RWBY)Weiss Schnee
              Additional Tags:
               Master/PetPetplayCollarsGagsHandcuffsSensation PlayTrue LoveKitty!RubySex ToysVaginal FingeringTeasingOrgasm Delay/DenialCuddling &amp; SnugglingAftercareTop WeissFluff and SmutCunnilingus
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2018-12-22Completed:2019-06-04Words:12940Chapters:3/3Comments:21Kudos:261Bookmarks:31Hits:16160
      Weiss' Pampered Kitten
      White_Rose_Trash
      Chapter 3
    Chapter Text
    The only thing Ruby loved more than falling asleep  next to Weiss after their play, was waking up next to hert in the morning. Weiss' arms were secured tightly around her waist, and her body was curled around Ruby's. Ruby closed her eyes in content, listening to the soft breathing of her sleeping girlfriend as her breath brushed across her neck. 
On the one hand, she wanted to let Weiss sleep and enjoy the warmth of being held. On the other, she wanted to wake Weiss up to enjoy her affectionate cuddles before she woke up fully. It didn't take long for Ruby to make her decision as she began to squeeze Weiss' hand and stroke her thumb along the back of it. 
A few moments later Weiss shifted slightly and groaned. She tangled her legs with Ruby's further and squeezed her while beginning to nudge and nuzzle against her neck. She hadn't fully awakened, so her inhibitions were quelled as she needily snuggled Ruby close. 
Ruby grinned and hummed in bliss. "I love you," she whispered, causing Weiss to squeeze her again and mumble unintelligibly. Ruby closed her eyes when Weiss' hands began roaming over her belly, caressing the warm skin carefully before moving onto tracing her fingers up and down Ruby's side. 
Ruby shivered in delight and wasn't able to stop the purr that rumbled up in her throat. The way Weiss touched and held her made her feel so special and wanted. She hoped that she made Weiss feel wanted too. 
She could tell Weiss was waking up when her hands stopped being touchy and needy, and instead returned to Ruby's waist to secure her. Not that this meant Weiss was done cuddling, in fact she was hoping that it was just the beginning, but her affection had a certain impulsiveness to it when Weiss was sleepy that Ruby adored. 
"I love you," Weiss murmured softly as she tightened her grip around Ruby. She was so warm and soft. She wished she could hold her tight and protect her forever. 
"I love you too," Ruby responded with a giggle. "You're adorable when you're sleepy" 
Weiss' face flushed a bit. "Hush, love. Need I remind you that you have a soft, sensitive neck that I could nibble on whenever I want?"
"Is that a warning or a challenge?" Ruby asked with a smirk. 
Weiss left a gentle kiss on her neck. "I'll leave that up to you."
Ruby debated letting Weiss mark her neck up and down, especially when she knew where that path led, but at the moment she liked the idea of snuggling against Weiss' chest more. She shifted until Weiss' grip loosened and she turned around to bury her face against Weiss.
Weiss smiled and rubbed the small of Ruby's back. "Want me to rub your ears?" she whispered with warmth. 
Ruby nodded happily, beginning to purr as Weiss stroked the bottom of her fuzzy ears. Ruby's thoughts drifted to all of the love Weiss gave her. She was always so generous with the pleasure, attention, and affection she gave Ruby. While she knew that Weiss understood the feelings were reciprocal, Ruby couldn't help but feel like she hadn't gotten the chance to show it recently. 
"Hey Weissy? Can I ask you a question?"
Weiss hummed affectionately in acknoledgement
"Can I get a turn to touch you? I mean, I love it when you play with me, and tease me, and…everything else, but I want to make you feel good too!" Ruby said as she looked up i.
Weiss stared into Ruby's eyes for a moment before smiling. "Aww, Ruby. Making you feel good is plenty for me. Don't worry about it, okay?"
Ruby huffed. "No, you don't get it. I don't want to touch you because I feel obligated, I want to touch you because I want to show you I love you. Besides, it's not fair that I'm the only one who gets teased," she said with a pout.
Weiss stared at her, raising her eyebrows a bit. "You really want to?" and when Ruby nodded in response "Right now?" 
Ruby blushed a bit. "If you'd like."
Weiss leaned down and brushed their noses together. "Honey, I'd love to. How about starting with a kiss?"
Ruby smiled gleefully and pressed her lips to Weiss'. She moaned as Ruby threaded her fingers through her hair and stroked it softly. Especially with Ruby so stressed over finals and studying, Weiss had been too concerned with making sure she gave her plenty of love and attention during their private moments that she forgot Ruby needed to express herself too. 
Ruby broke off from the and nuzzled into Weiss' neck. "I love you," she mumbled. 
"I love you too, kitten, I’m sorry, I got so lost in how good it felt to take care of you that I forgot that you might want to take care of me too."
"It's okay. I really do love everything you to for me, and everything you do to me. You make me feel so safe and loved, I just need a chance to make you feel the same," Ruby confessed.
"Then stop babbling and kiss me, you dork. I want you." Weiss told her with a smile. 
She didn't have to be told twice, pushing her lips against Weiss' and running her fingers through her silky hair. Ruby timidly ran her tongue over Weiss' lips and was quickly given access. 
Weiss moaned as Ruby's tongue slowly explored her mouth. When Weiss let her guide the kiss, it was so tender that she thought she might melt. She cupped Ruby's cheek and pressed against her eagerly to deepen the kiss. 
Ruby's hands tentatively explored Weiss' skin. While one hand stroked Weiss' hair, the other rubbed her back before she traced a fingernail across her side which caused her to shiver and moan. 
Ruby broke off the kiss and rolled over on top of Weiss, staring into her icy blue eyes. Ruby didn't usually prefer to take the lead, but this position allowed her to see and touch all of Weiss. Weiss intertwined her fingers with Ruby's, giving her a sign of approval. Ruby leaned down and gave her a tender kiss of assurance as her hands trailed down her sides. 
Weiss tried to steady her heavy breathing. Ruby's touches felt electric against her skin, making her jump and twitch. She felt the same vulnerability that Ruby usually trusted her with, and she let herself relax in Ruby's safety. 
Ruby ran her hands up and down Weiss' arms and across her belly as she nipped and kissed at her collar. She couldn't stop touching her, and the feeling of Weiss' muscle tone sparked warmth between her legs. "Mmm, you're so hot." She moaned against her neck as her thumb brushed back and forth against a sensitive spot on Weiss' navel. "I want to go down on you Weiss. I want to make you feel good. I want to taste you and feel your thighs gripped against my head."
Weiss groaned as the image of Ruby's head between her legs made her clit throb. "Do you have any idea how sexy you are?" 
Ruby smiled and giggled, peppering kisses down her neck. "Sexy enough that I can get in your pants?" 
"Sexy enough that you can do whatever you want," Weiss said. 
Ruby began laying kisses sensually down her body. She started at her neck, her hands gripping at Weiss’ waist as she trailed down to her collar. She stopped at her chest, taking a stiff nipple between her lips, running her tongue across it and gently sucking. Weiss’ chest had always been a source of insecurity for her. She was raised in a traditional family, and she was treated as a potential bargaining tool for her father’s political whims. Her beauty was the main selling point to suitors, and her breast size had been considered insufficient by the men who viewed her as little more than a plastic doll. Ruby had worked hard to slowly wipe away that insecurity, and she happily gave her chest attention whenever she was given the chance. Weiss whimpered her name and arched her back as Ruby licked and sucked. Ruby always had a sense for how to make her feel valued, and the way she was eager in every action was certainly doing the trick. Weiss gripped Ruby's hair, whining as attempted to tug her further down.
Ruby knew Weiss' chest was sensitive, and she was tempted to keep giving it attention, but Weiss was also impatient and she wanted to enjoy the rest of her before she was forced between her legs. She was distracted briefly by Weiss' abs on her trip down her body, kissing and burying her face into the toned skin despite Weiss’ whines. When she reached her waistline, Weiss was needy, her skin hot to the touch as her hands threaded through Ruby's hair. Ruby kissed the sensitive mound above her folds, dragging out the anticipation just a bit longer.
She looked into Weiss' eyes as she pressed her tongue against her clit and lapped at it slowly. Weiss' head fell against the bed and she moaned, massaging Ruby's scalp in encouragement. Ruby teased the swollen nub for a few moments before exploring the rest of Weiss' heat. She ran her tongue across Weiss' lips until her tongue was coated in arousal. The taste wasn't nearly as pleasant as was the proof of Weiss' enjoyment and pleasure from Ruby's touches. 
Weiss moaned Ruby's name and pushed her head against herself. She loved how excited Ruby seemed as she gave love to all of Weiss’ sensitive spots. The feeling of being desired by her girlfriend was almost as good as the physical sensations Ruby was gifting her. She rocked her hips when Ruby finally stop teasing and began sucking at her clit. Instinctively her legs closed around Ruby's head and she moaned loudly as Ruby's tongue swiped back and forth while she sucked on her bud. 
Ruby hummed in delight which caused Weiss' grip to tighten. Weiss’ genuine reactions of pleasure only encouraged Ruby to look for more ways to draw them out. They were a sign that Weiss trusted her enough to let go and focus on the pleasure. Her fingers ran up and down the outside of Weiss' thighs in excitement. Her thighs were so soft, and when she squeezed them, Weiss made noises begging for more. Her moans rose in pitch and slowly sped up as the attention to her clit became too much. Ruby could tell she was close when her legs started trembling, and she kept gently sucking as she felt her begin to tense. Finally Weiss cried out, moaning Ruby’s name and gripping her hair tightly as she reached her peak. Ruby felt her clit pulse and twitch as she slowly circled the nub with her tongue to draw out the pleasure. 
When her climax faded, Weiss relaxed and she sighed as the hot pleasure was replaced with warmth and content. Ruby spent time slowly kissing the inside of Weiss' thighs now that the heat of the moment had died down. Weiss' body was irresistible to her, top to bottom. When she was done covering her legs in kisses and light love marks, she crawled back up the bed to meet Weiss' gaze. 
"I love you," Weiss whispered, finding Ruby's hand and gripping it gently. 
"You mean so much to me," Ruby whispered back. 
Weiss leaned up and kissed her, and Ruby felt warm tingles up and down her spine. Weiss wrapped her arm around Ruby's back, letting her lose herself in the kiss for one more moment before she flipped them around in an instant, pinning Ruby's wrists above her. 
"You thought I was just going to let you get away with being on top?" Weiss teased.
Ruby pretended to be coy, turning her head to the side with a blush. "Oh no! What are you going to do with me?"
"I guess I'll just have to kiss you to death," Weiss said while laughing. She pressed her lips to Ruby's and explored her mouth, enjoying the soft moans of content below her. 
Ruby felt a familiar heat between her legs as Weiss deepened their kiss. The warmth and weight of Weiss on top of her reminded her that she never received proper relief. 
Ruby leaned up as the kiss continued, Weiss embraced her, rubbing the small of her back as she wrapped her legs around Weiss' waist. Weiss' free hand began idly rubbing her belly, and Ruby couldn't stop herself from rocking her hips. Weiss took the hint, moving her hand down and cupping Ruby's folds. 
Weiss broke off from the kiss and nipped at Ruby's earlobe. "You're already so wet. Do I really turn you on that much?" she whispered and blew a warm breath against Ruby's ear. 
Ruby whimpered and nodded against Weiss' shoulder, rolling her hips relentlessly. 
"Let me take care of that then," Weiss whispered, teasing her entrance briefly before sliding two fingers in down to the base. She rubbed against Ruby's sensitive walls and Ruby’s hips matched Weiss' thrusts, greedily accepting her fingers. 
Ruby buried her moans against Weiss' skin. Her fingers made her feel so full. Pleasuring Weiss had made her so needy, and she ached for more of Weiss' touch. 
"Weisss," Ruby whined as Weiss slid her fingers out and put pressure against her clit. She nipped and sucked at Ruby's jaw as she played with the swollen nub. Gently stroking it made Ruby twitch and whimper, and pressing against it caused her to rock her hips and moan loudly. When she felt her begin to tense and tremble, she pushed her fingers back inside and began thrusting again. 
Ruby whined as Weiss abandoned her clit. Even the gentle stroking and pressing was enough to put her against the edge, but Weiss' fingers filling her up made her feel so close to her. "Stop teasing," she whined. 
"You need it that bad?" Weiss asked. She loved having Ruby wrapped around her finger. 
"Yes! Please!" Ruby moaned, her hips still searching for more stimulation. 
"Of course, kitten.” She tilted her palm to rock against Ruby's clit as she began to rub the sweet spot along her walls. 
Ruby cried out in relief, pushing to the edge after only a few moments of proper attention. "Weiss," she whined softly. "So close."
Weiss exhaled warmly against her ear. "I love you, kitty. I want to make you cum."
That was the last nudge Ruby needed. Her breathing sped up as she finally reached climax, moaning through clenched teeth into Weiss' ear. Every thrust sent a new rush of pleasure up her body, her walls clenching around Weiss' fingers. 
Weiss gradually slowed as Ruby's peak faded, and she transitioned to softly kissing her cheek and neck. She slowly slid her fingers out of Ruby's heat and made a display of sucking her slick off of them. Ruby buried her bright red blush in Weiss' shoulder, making her chuckle. "You taste good too," she whispered. 
Weiss gently laid Ruby down and collapsed next to her, quickly pulling her into a tight embrace. "I love you so much," she whispered. 
Ruby grasped Weiss' hand and squeezed it. "I love you too." 
"Thank you…for everything today. When you touch me, you make me feel so attractive and desired. You make me so happy."
"Then maybe you should let me touch you more often, especially when I'm wearing the collar that makes me yours," Ruby said. She wanted to make Weiss feel as special and cared for as Weiss made her feel. 
"I promise I will. You mean so much to me" 
Ruby felt Weiss’ breathing slow as she nuzzled against her neck. “Are we really going back to sleep?” She asked.
Weiss squeezed her gently. “I don’t see you complaining.”
Ruby smiled and closed her eyes, letting her partner’s warm embrace relax her into sleep. 
  Notes:
  Reviews are loved and adored as always. I hope you enjoyed.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          Butts_it_is, Cyrrus, Lesbianellie, DY4Y, seulgisft, SALT6x5, Bjoernsen1998, Tahnex, Pownbattle, AMagicalMaggie, qwerterwildfang, SulliMike23, amamation, Lesbees, Sir_Taco_Eater, H0pe_Caster, lesbirb, Laggard, 0Black_Wolf3, Hardshocker, P3TR4, Badendchan, WaryTaru, TheWacoKid, PupMaster, Uponthisholygay, metagorgon, Fandom_Humaty23, BananaHavana, Weiss3100, Acefandom103, scullen00, GeekFun, AaliyahEND, DreamingParadise14, Zierin705, silly_fitz, Alayn, CatastropheLesbian, bemse, CrimsonOcelot, Sutoresu, YuriTrash_14, hazajames, world_link, DShadow101, Dragonqueen1993, Electroace, SnowKuki, Legion0047, 
               and 62 more users
            RealLifeFairytale, imaencuru, The_Smell_of_Books, hell_swan, Backstein, tiidepods, Antonymarc, Eternal_Paradox001, RebeccaDarking, sevencoloured, Thunderflash, GrumpyCat42, 74139, FacadeSmiles, FudgeNugget, LachrymoseLake, ShadowRose657, Bman000444, GoldenDragonQueen, Sappho82, Phoenyxa, TheTrashManCommeth, Gunnarkyrkjebo, Mai_0301, FZ_DracoHart, Jwolf, Ruby_Futa, Kat_Cordia, DeedNay, shadowjsm, READINGREADER, Hagraven, Nicole_Gamer_Beth, ghost9119, lemunx, ajs72691, blackholegaming, Phoenix8221, Frapadingue70, Burn_It_totheground, IHateMice, Ale_Leo, WADS, SighLetGetThiSOverWith, SheRolf, Symbonto, SahqoMedPeytte, ConfidentEntree, WhiteRose2199, JB15jones8946, DarkenedSilence, Defeatist72, Phteven_Skate, fireinferno369, TheEclipsedScriptures, Guitarh522, Babytao, Xanfire, insanegodcuthulu, OD1N, BD99 and necrolectric
             as well as 
          149 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
