      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Arthur probably sees a little of himself in Emil
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      Hetalia: Axis Powers
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Baby please don't leave me
      by
      Hetaliafan2000
      Fandoms:
      Hetalia: Axis Powers
 Mature
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings, No Archive Warnings Apply
 M/M, Multi, Other
 Work in Progress
    24 Feb 2019
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings No Archive Warnings ApplyAmerica/Iceland (Hetalia)Iceland (Hetalia) America (Hetalia) Scandinavia (Hetalia) Denmark (Hetalia) Norway (Hetalia) Sweden (Hetalia) Female Finland (Hetalia) Switzerland (Hetalia) Liechtenstein (Hetalia) England (Hetalia) France (Hetalia) Canada (Hetalia) Hong Kong (Hetalia) Taiwan (Hetalia) South Korea (Hetalia) Seychelles (Hetalia)scandinavia is an oc more characters are to come Alternate Universe - Modern Setting Alternate Universe - High School Alternate Universe - Human Alternate Universe - Gender Changes Nyotalia punk!Iceland only he is acutually a dork he just doesn't show it much Iceland is in love with boots and has a lot of them Like A Lot A Lot At some point characters are mentioned but not really in here And have no point to be in here except as a background character Oops Arthur is slowly going to mother Iceland Arthur probably sees a little of himself in Emil Author regrets slow update sorry - Freeform Arthur was a punk And most would call Emil a punk so theres that Oh No Emil's sick Alfred and Arthur to the rescue Alfred your going to get pucked on You Dumb Dumb Metions of drugs and use of drugs and almost rape also bad coping methods and suicide. Warning are in chapters for it so read at own risk really Iceland knows how to play the guitar Its a Thing I explain I should probably tage this as slow burn Maybe - Freeform
    Summary
      Emil didn't want to be here, not in this country, not in this house, and not in this school. but here is his and he cant change it. but maybe that cute blonde kid that sits in front of him will change his mind. follow Emil as he tries to get through school, a crush(because that's what it is) and meeting up with old ex? uh oh.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    37,240
    Chapters:
    18/?
    Comments:
    3
    Kudos:
    26
    Bookmarks:
    3
  Hits:
  553
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
