      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. If You Go Down To The Woods Today
2. Shifting Affections
3. A Visit to The V-E-T
4. You're a What Now?
5. Lacrosse Practice
6. Thursday
7. Party Time...Or Not
8. Saturday Night Live
9. Once Bitten
10. Out Of The Frying Pan...
11. All the Revelations
12. Nothing Good Comes From Going Bowling
13. Control
14. The Devil You Know
15. Coming Out To Play
16. Suspense and Suspension
17. To Catch An Alpha
18. Peter Hale
19. Awakening
20. Full Moon Pt. II
21. Best Laid Plans
22. The Other Stilinski
23. Friday Night's Alright for Fighting
24. Transfer of Power
25. A Brief Reprieve
26. Monday's Child is An Evil Genius
27. Strange Encounters
28. Wednesday's Children are full of Woe
29. New Arrivals
30. Realisations
31. Pack Bonding
32. Skates, Lies and Videotape
33. Squished
34. Romantic Midnight Swims Should Come With A Warn...
35. Welcome to The Jungle
36. Kanima in the Hold
37. A Kanima Comes Calling
38. Sheriff's Station Down
39. How To Do A Return
40. Rise and Shine (or For Fuck's Sake Peter)
41. Vault
42. Laura Hale
43. She's Awake
44. Marks and Mercs
45. Birthday Party
46. Run Forrest, Run!
47. First National Bank
48. Hello, We'd Like To Make A Withdrawal
49. Last day of School
50. Happily Ever After (or A Study in Wedding Drama...
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warnings:
               Graphic Depictions Of ViolenceUnderage
              Categories:
               F/FF/MM/MOther
              Fandom:
               Teen Wolf (TV)
              Relationships:
               Derek Hale/Stiles StilinskiAllison Argent/Scott McCallVernon Boyd/Erica ReyesLydia Martin/Jackson WhittemoreAllison Argent/Lydia MartinIsaac Lahey/Scott McCallChris Argent/Peter HaleNoah Stilinski/The LawDanny Mahealani/Jackson Whittemore
              Characters:
               Derek HaleStiles StilinskiSheriff StilinskiAlan DeatonScott McCall (Teen Wolf)Allison ArgentLydia MartinJackson WhittemoreDanny MahealaniPeter HaleLaura HaleChris ArgentVictoria ArgentKate ArgentMelissa McCallErica ReyesVernon BoydIsaac LaheyCora HaleTalia HaleBobby FinstockMarin Morrell
              Additional Tags:
               Alternate Universe - Canon DivergenceWerewolf Stiles StilinskiExplicit Sexual ContentExplicit LanguagePast Rape/Non-conin reference to past Kate/DerekSheriff Stilinski is a Good ParentWolf PackWerewolf MatesBlood and Gorementions of abuseCanon-Typical ViolenceSuicidal IdeationXenophiliamentioned and actualBut getting fluffier all the time :)Derek Hale Deserves Nice ThingsStiles Stilinski is a Little ShitFix-ItEverybody LivesSeries RewriteKanimasResurrectionMagicBanshee Lydia MartinCompleteKnotting
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Teen Wolf Redux series
        Collections:
        TeenWolf
    Stats:
      Published:2018-05-06Completed:2020-07-12Words:456236Chapters:50/50Comments:1398Kudos:2340Bookmarks:720Hits:82953
      I Was A Teenage Werewolf
      HaleHathNoFury (My_Trex_has_fleas)
      Chapter 13: Control
          Summary:
            Time to start getting a handle on things.
    Chapter Text
    Stiles was groggy the next morning when he woke up. He was in his own bed and sprawled out, the sound of his cell ringing making him lift his head and growl in its direction. ‘Answer your goddamn phone already!’ Derek yelled from his own room. He sounded grouchy as hell, but considering they were both running on very little sleep, it was to be expected. ‘Shut up, sourwolf!’ he yelled back, grinning as Derek growled while he scrabbled for his phone and checked the number. It was not one he recognised so he was cautious as he answered it. ‘Hello?’‘Are you ignoring my message on purpose?’ The voice was snippy and it took a second for Stiles to realise who it was.‘Lydia?’ He sat up and frowned. ‘Why the hell are you calling me?’‘Obviously you haven’t even read the message.’ Her voice was cutting. ‘I need you to come over. Now.’ She hung up on him and Stiles stared at his phone’s screen in bemusement. He flicked through to his messages, eyes widening as he read the one that could only be from her. ‘What did she want?’ Derek was leaning in his doorway, black hair a mess and his green eyes narrowed against the sunlight streaming through Stiles’ window. ‘For us to go over there.’ Stiles got up, stretching and relishing the way his body ached in a very pleasant way. ‘Guess she wants to talk about last night.’‘Great. Another problem child I have to deal with.’ Derek’s sarcasm could cut steel but his eyes are twinkling and Stiles grinned and launched a pillow at him. Derek batted it away easily and then he was right there in Stiles’ space, nosing at him and rumbling happily. ‘You okay?’‘I’m good.’ Stiles linked his arms around Derek’s neck. ‘I should be asking you that after last night.’ He’d been worried, especially when Derek had refused to share his bed citing a desperate need to sleep. He looked into his eyes and listened to his heartbeat, thankful to see and feel nothing but calm through their bond. ‘I’m dealing with it.’ Derek told him and Stiles knew he’s telling the truth. It comforted him no end. ‘Get ready and we can go grab something to eat on the way to Lydia’s. I’m assuming she’s not going to let us get away until she has what she wants.’‘It’s like you know her already.’ he cackled and then yelped indignantly when Derek got him around the waist and threw him on the bed, chuckling as he watched Stiles flail and then hightailing it out the room before he could get revenge.********Noah got home at about eight, nearly falling out of the cruiser in exhaustion. He had about an hour to have a shower, get into a fresh uniform and give his son hell for not listening to him so he unlocked the front door and staggered in, heading upstairs and peering in at Stiles’ door. His son was half dressed, digging through a dresser drawer in search of a t-shirt, and Noah noticed with some surprise that he was looking considerably broader in the chest. The muscles in his arms and shoulders were also more defined, rangy and lean and startling him a little. Stiles glances back over his shoulder at Noah and grinned. ‘Hey Dad.’ He pulled an obnoxiously bright blue t-shirt over his head and Noah winced when he sees it was his stud muffin one. ‘Hey yourself.’ he said. ‘I’m just looking in to check you’re both okay and grab some sleep if I can.’ He watched Stiles rub his eyes. ‘You catch the bad guy?’ He sounded like he used to when he was little and Noah’s heart ached at how much he’d had to grow over the years. ‘Not yet.’ He leaned against the doorframe and yawned. ‘The surveillance is a bust. Both cameras were out. The owner hasn’t had them operational since they went down last year. He says they’re just for show now, do the job without him having to pay for their upkeep so we got nothing from that. The statements from Jackson and Lydia are vague at best, so I’m back to knowing what the hell is going on and being able to prove exactly jack shit of it.’ The bathroom door opening made him turn to see Derek coming out in his boxers, hair wet from the shower. Noah noted that his physique was considerably more impressive than Stiles’ and mused as to whether that’s because he was born a wolf.Derek looked at him as he scratches at his stubble and then tilts his head. Noah stifled a smile and wondered if Stiles would pick up the same mannerism. ‘You’re going to have to go through the others.’ he said and Noah nodded. ‘Yeah.’ He straightened up. ‘What time are you going out?’ ‘Now.’ Stiles was off the bed, laces tied. ‘We’re going out for coffee.’ He gave Noah an affectionate shoulder bump and then hurtled downstairs, giving Noah the chance to raise an eyebrow at Derek. ‘He’s being particularly evasive this morning.’ he said and Derek’s ears went red. ‘I am surprised at how early he’s awake. Anything I should know about?.’‘I can’t say.’ he mumbled and Noah wanted to laugh at how earnest he was. ‘But if it turns out to be important we’ll tell you. Stiles seems to think we’re on to something and I can’t say no to him so he’s dragging me out.’‘It’s those goddamn Bambi eyes.’ Noah chuckled. ‘I can’t tell you how many bedtimes were missed because of them. Claudia was the same, and Stiles is nothing if not her son.’ He gently rapped the door frame with his knuckles. ‘Just don’t let him push you around. He’s a bossy little sonofabitch with absolutely no sense of self-preservation. I’m counting on you to be the adult here and keep his ass out of trouble.’ ‘Yeah, I’ve realised that.’ Derek replied. ‘I’ll do my best.’‘Good.’ Noah waved him off. ‘I want to be kept in the loop.’ He looked over his shoulder as Stiles galloped back up the stairs, pulling on a flannel shirt and skidding on the floorboards as he got to them. He had his cell in one hand and a very excited look on his face. ‘Come on already.’ He waved the phone under Derek’s nose. ‘You know she’ll kick our asses if we keep her waiting.’‘Who will kick your ass?’ Noah asked and Stiles looked a bit shifty but one glare from Noah got him to cave.‘Lydia.’ he said. ‘She asked us to come over.’‘Really?’ Noah frowned. ‘I thought you were going to wait until school to talk to her.’‘No, Dad.’ Stiles jabbed at the screen. ‘She messaged me last night and then called to bust my balls when I didn’t answer her this morning. I didn’t even know she had my number. She wants to talk about last night.’ ‘Now isn’t that interesting.’ Noah narrowed his eyes at him. ‘You are of course going to take copious notes and report back to me when you’re done. Understood?’‘Fine.’ Stiles huffed, grabbing Derek by the arm and dragging him after him. ‘We’ll see you later.’‘Bye Noah.’ Derek’s voice came from the stairs as he was physically dragged away and Noah grinned, going into his room where the promise of a hot shower and a soft bed called to him like a siren.********They grabbed coffee and doughnuts on the way, steadily eating their way through a good dozen before they got to Lydia’s house. Her parents’ cars were gone and it took a few minutes for her to answer the door. When she did, it was in sweats and a pink hoodie, her face free of make-up and her hair in a messy knot on top of her head. She looked so unlike herself that Stiles just gaped at her and she rolled her eyes at him before grabbing his arm and hauling him in through the front door. Derek followed, surreptitiously sniffing the air and then frowning at her. ‘Something happened.’ he said and Stiles copied his action realising that Lydia smelled like wintergreen, the scent so strong it made his nose itch.‘No shit, something happened.’ Lydia put her hands on her hips. ‘I have questions.’‘Crap.’ Stiles took a step back. ‘This is trap. Derek, we should definitely run for it.’‘Not a chance, Stilinski.’ Lydia hissed. ‘I want to know just what the fuck that thing was that bit me last night. All the shit I’ve looked up tells me it was not a mountain lion, which would make a hell of a lot of sense considering what all the crazy shiot around here. Not only that, but you’ve been acting weirder than your normal freak self.’ She started ticking things off on her fingers. ‘There was that thing with the woods and then all of a sudden you’ve got super strength, this amazing new sporting prowess you’re demonstrating and you’re going nuts on the full moon. I know what this all adds up to.’ She glanced at Derek. ‘I can’t quite figure you into the equation, but I know you’re involved. There are way too many things happening to be coincidence and I want in.’Stiles looked at Derek but he was wearing his super poker face and had his arms folded. ‘What exactly are you getting at?’ he asked and Stiles winced because Lydia’s eyes went all flinty and he knew she was in a mood to possibly maim both of them, their wolfy powers be damned. ‘I’m not stupid.’ Lydia snapped. ‘I’m even smarter than your boy toy over there so don’t try that deflection bullshit with me. I’m very good at putting things together and the same word keeps coming up whichever way I do it.’‘And what word is that?’ God, Derek was almost as terrifying as she was, his green eyes hard as chips of jade, and Stiles wanted to hide in a closet somewhere until they’d duked it out. He watched Lydia’s unpainted mouth curve in a knowing smile, her eyes not leaving Derek’s face. ‘Werewolf.’ she said and Stiles’ heart jumped. He saw Derek’s nostrils flare ever so slightly and knew he was angry so he jumped in to try and rescue the situation.‘You know that sounds ridiculous, right?’ He could hear the frantic edge to his words but he kept talking anyway. ‘Because everyone knows werewolves aren’t real and so what you’re saying can’t be right. We’re just two normal dudes, okay maybe not exactly completely normal but definitely human. That’s all we are, three totally normal humans having a conversation…’ He trailed off with a nervous laugh and then realised that they are both staring at him. Lydia had one coppery eyebrow arched at him and Derek actually facepalmed. ‘For fuck’s sake, Stiles.’ he muttered then looked up at Lydia. ‘Fine, you want to know? Yeah, we’re werewolves. Stiles got turned into one when the alpha bit him and I can smell that you got bit too, but you’re not turned. I can smell that your bite hasn’t healed.’ He took a step forward and to her credit, Lydia didn’t even flinch. Derek raised his own formidable eyebrows at her and now Stiles could smell it too, the coppery tang of blood. Lydia seemed to be weighing things up and then lifted the side of her hoodie. There was a square of gauze taped to her side and it was spotted with bloodstains. ‘What is an alpha?’ she asked while Derek leaned in a little closer, peering at the bandage. ‘The leader of a wolf pack.’ he replied. ‘But this one is insane. It has no pack so I think it’s trying to make one.’ He looked at her. ‘Does it hurt?’‘Not really.’ Lydia lowered her shirt. ‘That’s not normal either, is it?’ ‘No.’ Derek told her. ‘There are two results of a bite - your turn or you die.’ ‘How would I know?’ Lydia asked and Derek huffed. ‘You’d be dead by now.’ Something crossed his face and Stiles smelled an acrid note creep into his scent and knwe he’s thinking about Paige. ‘It doesn’t take very long.’ ‘So if I’m not a werewolf and I’m not dead, then what am I?’ Lydia demanded and her voice was shaking ever so slightly. ‘Because none of this makes any sense.’‘I honestly don’t have a clue.’ Derek replied and his heart stayed steady. That surprised Stiles but he kept his mouth shut. ‘I don’t know what to tell you. Do you have anything supernatural in your family.’ The shriek of laughter from Lydia had a hysterical edge to it. ‘No!’ She was vehement. ‘We’re just normal people, maybe a little dysfunctional but definitely not… just no.’‘Then I can’t help you.’ Derek said and shrugged. He looked at Stiles. ‘We need to take her to Deaton.’‘Who’s that?’ Lydia asked, sharp with suspicion. ‘He’s kind of an expert.’ Stiles rubbed the back of his neck. ‘He might know what the hell is happening to you.’ ‘I don’t want anyone to know about this.’ Lydia hissed. ‘Don’t worry, he’s very discreet.’ Stiles tried hard not to burst into hysterical laughter. This was getting too close to home. ‘Was Jackson bitten too?’‘No.’ Lydia shook her head. ‘But when I went into the video store, that thing had its claws in the back of his neck. It was kind of holding him there, but after it ran off the holes just closed up by themselves.’That obviously meant something to Derek judging by the sharp intake of breath. ‘What about you?’ he asked. ‘Did it attack you?’‘No.’ Lydia sounded confused for the first time since they started talking. ‘It didn’t. It kind of walked over to me, looking at me. I could see it was thinking. Then it sniffed me and it gets kind of hazy after that. When it let me go, it licked me. I remember that. Like it was trying to clean up after itself.’ ‘That’s an alpha instinct.’ Derek put his hands on his hips, his face troubled. He looked at Stiles and Stiles instinctively raised a hand to his neck, remembering the soft warm glide of Derek’s tongue over the marks he’d left. ‘It bit her on the side. Like me.’ he said and Derek nodded. ‘Pack placement.’ He caught Stiles’ eye. ‘The other is only for certain things.’ He was being deliberately vague, but Stiles didn’t miss the way that Lydia was watching them. ‘So now what?’ she asked. ‘Do we go see this mysterious Deaton?’‘He’s not mysterious, but he can be kind of annoying.’ Derek snorted. ‘And no. Right now, we have no idea what is going on so it’s probably best if you stay home and keep quiet. We’ll tell Deaton what’s happened and then he can get back to us if he finds anything out.’‘So I’m just supposed to sit here?’ Lydia’s eyes were sparkling angrily again. ‘No. I’ll go see him myself if I have to.’‘Fine.’ Derek huffed. ‘Then go get dressed and we’ll take you there. But I can tell you now he’ll say the same thing.’ ‘Then I’ll wait while he does.’ Lydia countered and stalked off in the direction of her room. Stiles waited until she was gone and then gave Derek a quizzical look. ‘Think he’ll know what she is?’ he asked. ‘Maybe.’ Derek said. ‘She’s not human, that much I can smell. Clever trick with the wintergreen. I’ll bet it’s all you’re getting.’Stiles nodded and scratched at his nose.‘Told you she’s smart.’ he replied. ‘You think the alpha bit her on purpose?’‘Maybe?’ Derek shook his head. ‘We’re missing something here. Why didn’t the alpha bite Jackson as well. He’s stronger than Lydia so he’d make a better target.’ ‘Unless he gets off on smart.’ Stiles pointed out. ‘I mean he bit me and her. Maybe that’s the connection.’‘Maybe it is.’ Derek’s expression changed and his green eyes were intent. ‘But if he wanted a strong pack, he’d be picking more imposing people. People he could use as fighters.’‘Dude.’ Stiles snorted. ‘That is like the opposite of me and Lydia.’‘But like you said, you’re smart.’ Derek countered. ‘Which make this alpha even more dangerous.’ ‘Great.’ Stiles sighed as Lydia comes back, now dressed and made up. ‘Shall we?’ she said and swept past them. Stiles and Derek exchanged looks and followed. She made Stiles sit in the back, after a single glare prompted him to rush to open the door for her. He got in behind, grumbling and settles in between the seats as Derek got in the driver’s side. ‘Deaton.’ He was on his phone. ‘I’m bringing someone over. Yeah, it’s to do with last night. I don’t know. It’s nothing I’ve seen before.’ He listened and then nodded once. ‘We’ll be right there.’The drive to Deaton’s was done in silence and when they get there, Lydia frowned. ‘Deaton as in Doctor Deaton?’ she asked and Stiles meets Derek’s eyes in the rear view mirror. ‘This is where I bring Prada. What does he have to do with this? I thought you said he was an expert?’ ‘Books and covers, Lydia.’ Derek replied and got out the car. The waiting room was thankfully empty and he wasted no time, going through to the back to where Deaton was turning to greet them as they approached.‘Miss Martin?’ He looked surprised. ‘I had no idea that you were one of the people concerned in last night’s attack.’ His black eyes zoned in on her side. ‘You were bitten.’ ‘Yes.’ Lydia replied without hesitation. ‘But I’m not like Stiles.’‘No.’ Deaton’s mouth curved up and Stiles couldn’t decide if it was reassuring or creepy. ‘You are something else entirely.’ He looked at Derek and Stiles. ‘Thank you gentlemen, I’ll take it from here.’ That put them both on the back foot. Derek started to protest and Deaton held up a hand. ‘I need to talk to Lydia first. Then if she decides that she’s comfortable with other people knowing, she can tell you. Until then, you can both go do something else. Maybe some training would be good.’ His pointed look made Derek growl but he complied, one hand going to Stiles’ shoulder as he steered him out.‘Dude.’ Stiles wriggled but Derek’s hold was like iron. ‘We should totally eavesdrop.’‘No.’ Derek muttered. ‘He’s right. Lydia deserves privacy for what he’s going to tell her. He obviously knows what’s up. Didn’t you see the way he looked at her?’‘What would he know though?’ Stiles frowned. ‘I get he’s an emissary but that’s all right?’‘It’s not just that.’ Derek replied. ‘Deaton can recognise magic and I’m betting that’s exactly what he felt. I could smell it in the car, when she was much closer. There’s magic around her but I don’t know what it is.’Stiles’ eyes went wide.‘Magic?’ He was breathless with excitement. ‘Like actual Harry Potter kind of shit?’‘Nothing so exciting.’ Derek deadpanned at him and Stiles growled in reply. ‘Now get in the car.’‘Why?’ He leaned on the roof. ‘Where are we going?’‘You heard Deaton.’ There was a flash of teeth that didn’t reassure him at all. ‘Training.’ **********In the back room of the clinic, Deaton looked at Lydia intently as he makes them tea, handing her a mug of what smelled like chamomile. ‘This is not what I expected.’ he said and a chill went up her spine.‘You know what happened to me?’ she asked. ‘Supernatural creatures are immune to the bite of a werewolf.’ Deaton explained. ‘That is why you didn’t turn.’‘But I’m not supernatural.’ Lydia protested. ‘I’m just me.’ ‘No, you’re not.’ Deaton went to a shelf and took out a book. ‘I always thought there was something about you, but I could never quite put my finger on it. It seems that whatever powers you have, they have been lying dormant. The alpha’s bite will have brought them to the surface and now we need to find out just what you are.’ Lydia looked at the book, frowning at the lettering on the spine that has faded almost to illegibility. ‘That’s Latin.’ she said and Deaton nodded. ‘Do you read it?’ he asked and for a moment Lydia hesitated before realising that here she didnn’t have to hide. ‘I do.’ she replied and saw a gleam of approval in his dark eyes. ‘Then this will go a lot easier.’ he placed the book on the table and took a seat opposite her. ‘Shall we begin?’***********Derek parked at the Hale house and looked through the windscreen at the shell of the house he grew up in. It didn’t hurt in the same way even though it still ached. When he inhaled Stiles’ scent, it ebbed enough to be manageable. He got out,his eyes automatically drawn to the mound of earth with the purple blossoms around its edges drawing a line of brilliant colour in the winter palette. Stiles came to stand next to him, one hand curling around his bicep in a comforting gesture. ‘You okay?’ he asked and Derek leaned over to nuzzle behind his ear. ‘Yeah.’ He stepped back. ‘Okay, let’s get started.’ He moved away back to the car as he stripped off his jacket and shirt in practised movements. Stiles followed, looking bemused. ‘What are you doing?’ he asked and Derek hopped on one foot as he got rid of his sneakers as well, socks balled up in the toe of one before he tossed them in the car. ‘We’re going running.’ He nodded at Stiles’ ratty converse. ‘You need to be barefoot.’ That gets an appalled look, especially when he extended his toe claws‘But I have soft feet.’ Stiles protested. ‘And the ground is cold. And to be honest, those freak me the fuck out.’ He was staring at Derek’s feet with undisguised horror.‘Just fucking do it.’ Derek ordered. ‘Trust me. They’ll help you dig in.’ ‘Trust me, he says.’ Stiles muttered, prying off his sneakers and giving Derek a filthy look. ‘What kind of asshole runs around barefoot in winter? I am not taking my shirt off. You can do that GQ model shit all by yourself.’ ‘Fine.’ Derek snarked back. ‘When you completely overheat, be it on your head.’ He waited for Stiles to throw his shoes in before locking the car and watched as he shifts from one foot to the other before taking a step forward, rolling his head until his neck cracks and letting his eyes bleed to blue as his fangs descended. Stiles squeaked and took a step back. ‘Derek.’ His eyes were narrowed. ‘What the fuck are you doing?’‘You have to the count of three.’ Derek growled, gleeful on the inside at how Stiles’ honey-brown eyes widened, beta gold flickering around the edges. ‘No.’ He stumbled back, nearly falling on his ass. ‘You’re being a childish asshole.’ Derek snarled happily and went full beta shift, baring his teeth and smelling how Stiles’ scent flooded with a mixture of panic and excitement. ‘One.’ He took another deliberate step. ‘You better start running because when I catch you, I’m going to kick your ass.’‘Fuck.’ Stiles wheeled around, momentarily losing his balance and scrambling to get his feet back under him.‘Two.’ Derek smiled, his predatory instincts kicking in. Whether it was for feeding or fucking, wolves loved to chase. ‘Best move that skinny little ass of yours, Stiles.’ He curled his fingers, claws out. ‘Shit, shit, shit…’ Stiles was off, racing through the trees with a yowl that would be better suited to some sort of feline and Derek couldn’t stop himself from laughing. He waited and listened to the sound of his mate skidding on dead leaves, then started jogging after him.‘Three.’ he breathed and started running, his body stretching and moving fluidly. It was glorious and he threw himself onto all fours, tracking Stiles by scent and sound into the preserve.**********‘Here.’ Deaton was looking at another book. ‘I think I may have found something.’ He handed it to Lydia and she looked at the illustration. ‘Does this sound familiar at all?’She read the description and shook her head. ‘No.’ she sighed. ‘To be honest I don’t even feel that different. Just sore from the bite and weirded out by the fact that I now know that not only werewolves exist but that Stiles is one.’ ‘Well, he had no real choice in that.’ Deaton replied. ‘And there are far more things out there. Werewolves are only the tip of the iceberg.’ He looked at her, considering. ‘May I ask what you intend to do with this new found information?’‘Absolutely nothing.’ Lydia replied. ‘I wanted to know, but you can bet I won’t be telling anyone. The last thing I want is to end up in Eichen House like my grandmother.’ That got Deaton’s attention and he sati up straight. ‘Your grandmother was in Eichen House?’ he asked and Lydia looked away. It wasn’t a memory that she enjoyed recalling. ‘She used to read to me.’ she said. ‘The Little Mermaid. I always wanted to be Ariel because she was the only Disney princess with red hair.’‘May I ask why she was committed?’ Deaton asked and Lydia chewed on her bottom lip before answering. ‘I always thought it was because she blamed herself for Maddy’s death.’ she said, then realised she needed to clarify. ‘Maddy was my other grandmother. She and Nan Lorraine got married after my grandfather died. They were together for a long time and then Maddy died while they were on vacation at our lake house.’ Her feelings, usually so carefully controlled, frayed a little at the edges as she spoke. ‘Nana Lorraine never forgave herself for it. She had a premonition that Maddy would die but she didn’t believe it and then it happened and I guess the guilt and the strain just got too much. She got really obsessive towards the end and I remember my dad talking about her hearing voices so she was committed. My parents acted like she was dead after that and I never got to see her again. She died in Eichen House.’ She studied her perfectly manicured nails and then looked up when Deaton didn’t reply. His face, however, was speaking volumes. ‘You said she had a premonition of death?’ he asked eventually. ‘What do you mean by obsessive?’‘She worked for IBM.’ Lydia replied. ‘She started a project, something to do with using computers to hear sounds beyond the normal spectrum. I don’t really know, my parents tried to shelter me as much as possible from it all.’ She looked at him, curiosity raising it’s head. ‘Why?’‘I think I may have something.’ Deaton replied and flipped through his book, finally setting it down in front of her. Lydia studied the illustration, a watercolour of a woman in a white shift, her face contorted as she screamed. The name at the top of the page was not unfamiliar but she had never believed in any of these things and she scoffed. ‘You can’t be serious?’ She reached out but stopped just short of touching the picture. ‘That’s what you think I am?’‘No, Lydia.’ Deaton’s voice was gentle. ‘That’s what I’m sure you are.’**********Stiles ran and ran. He was amazed at how effortless it was, especially after a lifetime of suicides exhausting him to the point where his legs burned and he couldn’t breathe. Now he floated over the ground, his earlier clumsiness gone in the face of how fast he actually was. It was incredible and he tuned out everything around him but the pounding of his blood through his veins and the quick high pitched breathes he took as he flew through the trees. Derek was stronger than him, but he was definitely faster, outpacing him easily. Even the attempts by Derek to psych him out by swerving and changing direction haven’t resulted in him being caught yet, although he’d had to double take at the sight of Derek down on all fours. He caught a glimpse of him off to the left and put on a little extra speed, laughing breathlessly as he swung out wide, losing Derek behind him. He could hear him, breathing just as hard and growling a little when Stiles eluded him. The chasm came up on him unexpectedly. This part of the preserve was deeper than he’d ever been and Stiles found himself either having to take the jump or go tumbling down to the bottom so he did, throwing himself forward and landing hard. He was off balance, rolling with the momentum until he was back on his feet and then Derek’s full weight slammed into him. All the wind was knocked out of him and he lay there wheezing as Derek got up, shifting back and grinning at him, waiting until Stiles could finally raise both hands and flip him off. Derek laughed and held out a hand, pulling him to his feet so Stiles could double over, hands on his knees. ‘Asshole.’ he panted and Derek smirked at him. ‘You work on instinct alone at the moment.’ he said. ‘You need to learn control.’ He moved to stand next to him. ‘Try to shift.’‘I can’t.’ Stiles shook his head. ‘I’m trying to freaking breathe here.’ ‘When hunters come for you, they don’t care if you’re compromised or distracted.’ Derek was suddenly serious. ‘You need to get out of your head. Every time you’ve shifted has been in response to an emotional state. You need to learn to get past that and make the transition at will.’ He shifted effortlessly into beta form and backed with not even a flinch. ‘You try.’ ‘Shit.’ Stiles muttered and tried to focus. It was like looking at one of those stupid magic pictures, the feeling of the wolf under his skin slipping away just as he grasped it. It was incredibly frustrating and that, coupled with how hot and sweaty he was and the burn in his thighs, made him growl. ‘That’s instinct coming out.’ Derek crouched to look at him. ‘Okay, let’s try only part of the shift. Eyes first.’ He nodded at Stiles and Stiles eased up on trying to cling to the feeling inside him. He could feel warm encouragement through their bond and let that guide him, Derek’s pleased smile tells him he had been successful as he flashed his eyes in turn. ‘This okay?’ Stiles asked and Derek held up a hand. Stiles watched him unsheath his claws with a flick of his fingers. ‘Try.’ he instructed and Stiles straightened up. He gave Derek’s claws a curious once over and then peered at his own fingertips. He tried to get them to come out but it was even trickier and he huffed in annoyance when nothing happened. He was about to give up when Derek lunged at him and, yep, there they are. Like Derek’s, they were razor sharp and shaded to brown where they grew from his nail bed. He turned his hand this way and that, examining them more closely than he had before. They looked razor sharp and he wanted to test them out, wondering if they would be like those knives on the shopping channel that could cut through metal.‘Still instinct.’ Derek took his wrist, his hand warm on Stiles’ skin. ‘Look.’ He held up his other hand, the claws retracting and then sliding back out again. ‘It has to be something you don’t struggle to do. Your shift needs to be part of you, but part that you control. Lack of control means shifting when you don’t want to and that’s the quickest way to get found out.’Stiles looked at him, feeling the sadness prickling at the edges of their bond. ‘Who taught you this?’ he asked and Derek sighed, blue eyes shifting back to green. ‘My parents.’ he replied. ‘My pack. We all learn when we’re pretty young that we need to control ourselves. We start shifting when we’re still toddlers but it’s purely reactionary. We only start to control it when we’re older. That’s why we don’t go to mainstream schools.’‘I bet it’s cute though.’ Stiles couldn’t help smiling. ‘Toddler werewolves?’‘Yeah.’ Now Derek’s mouth was curving upwards. ‘It is.’ He turned Stiles’ hand over, claws tracing lightly over his palm. ‘I always had trouble with control. It wasn’t until after the fire that I really got the focus to cut myself off from everything. Laura never did, she was the exact opposite. If anything she felt things more deeply, appreciated everything more. I couldn’t bring myself to do that, not knowing that I was responsible.’ he lets go and steps back. ‘I’m probably the worst person to teach you but I’m all you got right now.’ His green eyes were downcast, his face guarded as he glanced up at Stiles through his lashes. It went straight through Stiles like a lance. He darted forward, arms around Derek’s neck as he kissed him hard, knocking him a step backwards. Derek growled at him, then his hands were at Stiles’ waist and he was holding on, turning it deep in seconds until both of them were breathing hard through their noses as Stiles let Derek in and fought back as hard as he was being given.  When they broke apart, Derek’s eyes were blue again and his lip was hooked up over one fang. Stiles grinned, feeling their bond between them grow taut with anticipation. ‘So does being a wolf mean we can do it outside?’ he asked and Derek snorted, amused at him. His hands were sliding lower, coming to rest on the curve of Stiles’ ass. He tilted his head and leaned back in, hot breath ghosting over Stiles’ mouth. ‘You have a one track mind.’ he breathed and Stiles ran his hands up Derek’s bare arms and over his chest, feeling the muscles contract under his ministrations. He rubbed his thumbs over dusky nipples, his cock hardening steadily as Derek kept growling at him softly. ‘Teenager.’ he murmured back, looking up at him and seeing his own eyes reflecting gold in Derek’s. ‘I’m perpetually horny.’ He bit at his lip, making small circles with his thumbs and admiring how readily Derek’s body responded. ‘And I can’t help but notice that you’re not stopping me.’ That’s because I don’t want to.’ Derek came in closer and Stiles breathing caught as he felt Derek’s tongue tracing along his lower lip where he’d been biting before driving back into his mouth. There was a heave and he was in Derek’s arms and carried until his back hits a tree behind him still kissing frantically. Derek’s cock was a hard line against his own and Stiles wrapped his legs around him, ankles locking at the base of Derek’s spine. He sunk the fingers of one hand into Derek’s thick hair, angling so that their mouths were sealed together and just let go, both of them biting and licking at each other with no finesse at all. Derek took his weight easily, thrusting up against him with the same graceful movement he used to run and Stiles whined into his open mouth. The friction of denim and cock was good, almost too good, and he was barely hanging on, wanting to feel everything that Derek gave him, and when Derek pulled back to bite at his neck Stiles lost it. He arched up against him, his cry loud enough to set the birds in the tree overhead flying as he came, bucking uncontrollably. Derek pinned him to the tree, his own movements discordant as he chased after Stiles, shuddering through his orgasm like it was killing him and Stiles could feel it, bright white and rippling through their bond. The feedback from himself and Derek got mixed up together and it drew everything out until they were both incoherent. They stared at each other, eyes glowing and smiling like idiots. Stiles could hear how Derek’s heart was triple thudding in time with his own and he took one hand away from his neck, resting it on that perfect sculpted chest. ‘That was good.’ he whispered and Derek smiled at him. ‘It’s good with you.’ he whispered and that makes Stiles’ heart nearly jump right out of his chest. ‘It makes it worth waiting for.’ He gently let Stiles down, both of them grimacing at the feeling of come in their underwear. ‘We could have probably timed this better.’ Stiles snickered and Derek shoveed him and then reeled him in so they were pressed together again.  ‘I’m supposed to be teaching you.’ he says but his eyes are fixed on Stiles’ mouth. ‘And all I can think of is how I want to lick you clean.’ ‘Fuck.’ It fell out of Stiles’ mouth without him even thinking. ‘Okay, that sounds stupidly hot.’‘So you’d let me?’ Derek was nuzzling at his neck, rubbing his face against Stiles’ skin. ‘I want to, if you’ll let me.’ ‘Go for it, big guy.’ Stiles was not turning down an offer like that and Derek backed him up against the tree again before dropping to his knees. He managed to make it look almost elegant but then his hands were at Stiles’ jeans, undoing them and tugging them down and taking Stiles boxers with them. The air was cool on his semen wet skin but that only lasted a second before Derek’s warm tongue licked a path through the mess and Stiles threw one hand up against the tree, claws out and shredding the bark and shuddering as Derek’s tongue traces a line up his happy trail from his cock. The heat thrumming through their bond was almost overwhelming. ‘So.’ he gasped as Derek curled his tongue around the shaft, getting hard again in what must have been record time. ‘This werewolf stamina thing?’Derek hummed in acknowledgement but didn’t stop licking and Stiles stuck one hand back in his hair, holding on a little tighter than he probably should but fuck it. It wasn’t every day that he got dry humped into an amazing orgasm only to have it followed up with what would hopefully turn into a spectacular blowjob. Sure, Derek was taking the no penetrative sex thing seriously, but there’s still a lot of options at their disposal. Derek was nothing but thorough, licking every trace of come away, but halfway through Stiles was completely hard again and he wanted more, tugging on Derek’s hair and hoping he got the hint. There was a low rumble of laughter from Derek and one broad hand slid under his shirt, pressing him against the tree. Derek’s hand was warm, his claws gently pricking into Stiles’ skin. ‘So many new kinks.’ he moaned and Derek laughed, his eyes perfectly clear when he looked up at him, one hand lazily stroking up and down. He lapped at the head of Stiles’ cock like a cat, and Stiles is wrecked. He wanted to look away but he couldn’t, trapped by those amazing eyes that are fixed on him. ‘You taste really good.’ Derek’s voice was rough and he nuzzled at the base of Stiles’ cock, inhaling deeply. ‘And you smell even better.’‘Yeah?’ Stiles whined, digging his claws into the tree as far as he could to hold himself upright. His fangs were out and he was lisping but he didn’t care because Derek took him in all the way, throat contracting around Stiles like he did this every day and there was heat in his eyes, the electric blue flickering in and out. Stiles watched him, wetting his lips as he made a decision. ‘I want to do this to you too.’ he murmured. Derek pulled off in a slow slide, hand back and working him. ‘You want to suck my cock, Stiles? Put that mouth of yours to good use?’ He snarled softly, his own control slipping‘Holy shit.’ Stiles had to grit his teeth. He had a terrible weakness for dirty talk. ‘Yes, I want to suck your fucking cock. Like now.’‘Later.’ Derek laughed and his head went back down, all focus as he went to town on Stiles’ dick. It didn’t take long for Stiles to get close to coming again, but this time Derek held him there. It was like walking a knife’s edge, every breath strained as he thrashed against the tree, Derek’s hold on him tightening as his head moved faster. He was rumbling deep in his chest and it vibrated all the way up Stiles’ cock until he thumped his head back against the tree with s sharp cry, coming in Derek’s mouth and feeling him swallow around him. It was even more intense than the first time, the feelings ricocheting between them heightening everything, and Stiles slumped back against the tree, completely breathless as Derek pulled off and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand.‘You okay?’ he asked, eyes sparkling, and Stiles slid down the tree trunk onto his ass so they are more or less face to face. ‘You’re very good at that.’ he managed and Derek smiled. ‘The bond gives me feedback on what you like.’ he said. ‘It lets me read you.’ ‘To be honest, the mere fact that you want to blow me is enough.’ Stiles waved a hand at him. ‘Okay, your turn. Come at me, dude.’‘Don’t call me dude.’ Derek said but he gets to his feet, undoing his belt and jeans and getting his cock out. He was hard as a rock, wet from when he came before and clearly worked up. Stiles stared unashamedly, dying to know what he tasted like. He should have found this gross, but his nose was almost twitching as he inhaled greedily.‘How do you want to do this?’ he asked. ‘I don’t think my legs are working.’ Then he had a brain wave and glanced up. ‘You could fuck my mouth if you want?’ That is clearly not what Derek was expecting, but the look on his face was unmistakeable, even without the sudden flood of want through the bond and the reek of arousal in the air. ‘Can I?’ he asked, almost disbelieving, and Stiles snorted a laugh. ‘Seriously?’ he asked. ‘I’d let you put it anyway you fucking wanted right now. Actually I’d let you put it anywhere anytime you wanted.’ He made weak grabby hands at him. ‘You underestimate just how fucking into you I am. Even though you’re a sarcastic asshole who drives me nuts.’ ‘Because I’m a sarcastic asshole who drives you nuts.’ Derek countered, but there’s no disguising how much he wanted this and Stiles got himself a little more comfortable and beckoned him closer. Derek leaned over him, one hand braced against the tree and the other holding himself steady. ‘Stop me anytime if it’s too much.’ he said. ‘And don’t be overambitious.’ ‘Fuck that shit.’ Stiles grinned. ‘Now stick your cock in my mouth Derek.’ ‘Christ.’ Derek growled. ‘You’re going to be the death of me.’ Stiles was nose to cock with him and he focused on what was about to happen. Derek’s smell was deep and earthy and he was so wet, pre-come running down the side of his cock. Stiles put his hand on him, feeling steely hardness under velvety soft skin. He breathed in deeply, letting it wash over him and then tentatively flicked out with his tongue, just catching the tip of Derek’s cock. It doesn’t taste anything like he expected it too. He knew what he tasted like but Derek was stronger and with an animal note that he found he liked. Derek guided himself, wetting Stiles mouth and then nudging his cock against his lips. ‘Go slow.’ His voice was breathy and soft. ‘And don’t fucking bite me.’‘Got it.’ Stiles said and opened his mouth for him to slide in. It was a little awkward at first and he had to focus on breathing through his nose so he didn’t choke, but the feeling it gave him negated all that and he hooked his fingers into the loops of Derek’s jeans and pulled him closer. Derek’s skin tasted really good and he completely got why some people (Danny) rhapsodised about sucking cock like it was the best thing on earth. ‘You good?’ Derek asked and Stiles moaned around him, heat flashing through his chest. Derek started to move, little thrusts that drove him in and out slowly and carefully. It wasn’t at all overwhelming and gave Stiles the chance to experiment a little. He sucked on the next pull out and Derek made a strangled sound and there was a brief fall of bark because he was obviously shredding the tree just like Stiles did. That went straight to Stiles’ head and he got braver, using his tongue the way Derek had and holding on tighter, pulling Derek in with more force. ‘Fuck, Stiles.’ Derek was panting hard. ‘You need to let go.’ Stiles was feeling particularly stubborn so he just sucked harder and Derek threw back his head, his roar shattering the silence. Come flooded Stiles’ mouth and he pulled off and spitting out what he could. There was a lot and Derek was still coming, shaking hard with both hands raking his claws down the tree. He was growling, desperate and thick with need, and Stiles took hold him him, hand getting sticky as he stroked him through the last of it. When Derek finally quietened they look at each other, both of them a mess of come and saliva and flushed with exertion. Stiles was the first to break, laughter bubbling up inside him. A month ago, he was just another high school loser with a crush on the most popular girl in school, warming the bench and watching his life go by. Now he was a werewolf with a burning hot boyfriend who he’d just blown for the first time in the woods in broad daylight and it was crazier than anything he could have dreamed up for himself. ‘I think you’ve finally lost it.’ Derek remarked, sarcasm back in place as he stripped off his jeans and briefs. He used them to give himself a cursory clean and handed them to Stiles, who pulled a face and used the dry side to do the same.‘I think you just face fucked my brains out.’ He said with a smug grin. ‘Help me up.’ His knees were weak. legs wobbling like a newborn deer. Derek held him up under the arms and peered at him, still gloriously naked. ‘You need me to carry you back to the car?’ He was smiling, the bastard, and Stiles made an ineffectual swipe at him, trying to growl and sounding like a kitten which only made Derek laugh in his face. ‘Okay, that’s just pathetic.’‘Says you.’ Stiles retorted and then nearly fell over when Derek set him on his feet. ‘Damn, next time we need to have a flat surface available.‘Agreed.’ Derek looked thoughtful. ‘Shift for me.’Stiles didn’t even think about it, shifting effortlessly and saw Derek’s eyebrows trying to escape off the top of his head. ‘What?’ he asked. ‘It’s easy when there’s nothing in my head.’‘Yeah.’ Derek up his jeans. ‘Maybe I’ve been looking at this wrong. Come on, we’ll go slow back to the car. You can try and track our way back.’‘I’m not a sniffer dog, Derek.’ Stiles protests. ‘And I hate to break it to you buddy, but you’re going to need to put your pants back on.’‘Nah.’ Derek sounded almost goofily happy. He threw the jeans to Stiles and in between that moment and the next, he was standing on four paws and looking up at Stiles, pink tongue lolling out the side of his mouth. He gave Stiles a happy yip and bounced in a circle around him, tail wagging.‘Okay that’s cuter than it should be.’ Stiles laughed and started walking. **********‘How do you feel?’ Deaton asked and Lydia cracks an eye open at him. ‘The same as I did ten minutes ago.’ she says. She raised her eyebrows at him and he glared back in kind. ‘Hmmmm.’ he said and went back to his book.Lydia rolled her eyes at him and went back to meditating.***********The walk back was considerably more relaxed and Stiles started to appreciate his new senses as he sniffed the air. Derek was off in the bushes to his left somewhere, having heard something and gone to chase it. He was a lot more comfortable out here and Stiles had been watching in fascination. He didn’t feel quite the same urges, but then he’d only been a werewolf for a hot minute. This was Derek’s territory after all and it made sense that he behaved like this out here in the preserve.There was the sound of small paws scampering over leaves and then screeching as Derek treed a squirrel. Stiles laughed and jogged through the brush to find him standing at the base of a tall pine, forepaws braced against the trunk and looking up at his potential prey with his tail wagging furiously. He saw Stiles and whined plaintively. He went over and scratched through the thick fur behind Derek’s ears and squinted up at the squirrel, dying a little on the inside at how cute it was to see his big bad wolf acting like a puppy. ‘Guess he was too fast for you, huh sourwolf?’ He looked down and saw green eyes glaring at him. Even in his fur, Derek was judgy as hell. He snorted and then backed off, cocking his leg and pissing rather aggressively on the tree. Stiles burst out laughing and carried on walking, Derek’s paws soundless as he jogged alongside after a parting growl at the squirrel. By the time they got back to the house, Stiles was in love with what he’d seen, heard and smelled. It was calming in a way all his medication had never managed to be. Derek shifted back as they got to the porch, rising up on his hind legs and fur melting away. Stiles could hear his bones rearranging before he rolled his shoulders a few times and stretched, canines still on display as he yawned expansively. It was getting on for late afternoon judging from the angle of the sun and Stiles was a little surprised to glance at his phone and realise they’d been out in the woods for close on four hours. He redressed quickly, barely lacing his sneakers.Derek was looking up at the house, his face neutral although Stiles could smell his unease and went to stand next to him, handing him his jeans. He breathed in and caught the stink of old fire, ash and blood seeped into the wood and it turns his stomach. He could only imagine what it was like for Derek. ‘Why do you come back here?’ he asks and Derek shrugged as he pulled on his jeans.‘It’s my home, Stiles. I can’t stay away from it.’ His mouth turned down. ‘It used to be beautiful. You should have seen it.’ His sadness was palpable, humming through their bond, and Stiles moved to rest his cheek against his bare shoulder and Derek leaned into him. He almost missed the sound of cars, but raised his head when Derek tensed, eyes trained on the trees behind them. ‘Get in the house.’ he growled and Stiles backed up as the cars got louder. ‘What is it?’ he asked and Derek bared his teeth. ‘Hunters.’ He moved in front of Stiles, shoving him at the porch. ‘Get in and go upstairs. I want you to stay the fuck out of sight, you got that? I don’t want them to find you.’ They stumbled through the front door together and Stiles ran up the rickety staircase, taking refuge in a room off to the right. He could hear Derek moving around and then there was silence as the car pulled up and stopped outside the house followed by the sounds of people getting out. ‘Well his car’s here.’ It was a man he didn’t recognise but then he heard a voice that chilled him.‘He’s inside. Dogs always hide in their dens.’ Stiled listened to the click of Kate’s boot-heels as she ascended the porch steps. It made him indescribably angry and he strained his ears, but Derek was making no sound at all. The front door creaked as the hunters entered. To another human they would make no noise, but Stiles could track their breathing and their heartbeats as they fanned out in the entrance. ‘He told us to wait.’ It was the same one who had spoken outside.‘So I’ve been reminded - to death.’ Kate sounded annoyed. ‘It means we can’t kill him.’ The second man was younger. ‘Doesn’t mean we can’t say hello.’ Kate was moving around slowly, but with confidence.‘Doesn’t look like anyone’s home.’ the younger man said, sounding unsure. Stiles held his breath and then heard Kate call out. ‘Derek.’ Her voice was inviting, almost as if she was visiting a lover and not stalking her prey. ‘I know you’re in here. Come out and play, sweetheart.’ ‘Maybe he’s out back.’ one of the hunters said. ‘Burying a bone in the yard.’ His amusement made Stiles grit his teeth and dig his claws into his palms, struggling to hold onto his control. ‘Really?’ Kate laughsed ‘A dog joke? Is that the best you got? If we’re trying to provoke him, there are better things to say.’‘Like what?’ Now the hunter sounded sulky. ‘Like too bad your sister bit it before she had her first litter.’ Kate’s voices was raised to carry. ‘Too bad she howled like a bitch when we cut her in half.’ She laughed and Stiles frowned. He knew that the hunters didn’t kill Laura so why Kate was taking the credit was something to think about. He stilled as he heard them split up, Kate moving through to the left, one up the stairs and one behind the staircase and towards the back of the house. He could smell a horrible pungent scent that got right up his nose and made it burn but before he could wonder what it might be, there was a resounding crash and Derek roaring in fury. Gunfire went off, but it was obviously wide and Stiles snuck a look around the corner in time to see all three hunters converging in the room to the left. The sounds of fighting intensified before the younger man flew through the air back into the hallway, skidding along the floor when he landed in a heap.‘Fucking get him!’ Kate yelled and there was more gunfire before Derek howled in pain followed by a thump that Stiles knew was him collapsing to the ground before a brilliant surge of pain goes through him, setting his very teeth on edge.‘Aww.’ Kate was gloating. ‘This one grew up in all the right places. I don’t know whether to kill it or lick it.’That was the final straw. Stiles wolfed out and leaped over the landing. He landed in a defensive crouch, snarling at the interlopers when he saw Derek on the floor writhing in agony while Kate stood over him with a taser in her hand. It was police issue or something pretty damn close and Stiles knew how powerful those were. Thankfully his entrance had startled them both and he managed to duck past the older hunter (thank you lacrosse training) and knocked Kate right off her feet into the wall behind her. ‘Stiles, get the fuck out.’ Derek groaned but Stiles ignored him in favour of grabbing him and hauling him up bodily so he could throw them both out the shattered window at the back. What remained explodes in fragments of glass and splinters where the frame collapsed and they hit the ground hard. He rolled to take as much of the impact as he could and then scrambled to his feet, running on adrenaline as he dragged Derek up and behind him. He got them as far as the treeline before the first shot went off and Derek jolted as he was hit, one of the bullets finding their mark. but he didn’t stop and they were soon out of sight. Kate came out the other side of the house. running around the porch swearing a blue streak. ‘I’ll be back for you, Derek!’ she yelled. ‘Your bitch too. I’m going to make him bleed in front of you!’ She fired off another round into the air. ‘Fucking bitch.’ Stiles wanted to shred her face. ‘What the fuck did you ever see in her?’To his alarm, Derek didn’t even respond and when Stiles looked at him he saw that he was pasty white and sweating profusely. There were dark tendrils leaching their way from the bullet wound on his shoulder where he had been hit by the round Kate had fired at him. The blood leaking from the hole was black and smelled like the same pungent herby scent the hunters gave off and Stiles knew it was bad. ‘Fuck.’ He stopped to pull off his flannel and press it to the wound. ‘Derek?’‘It’s wolfsbane.’ Derek growled. ‘I need to get to Deaton. Now.’
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (25)
  Comments
          thoughtsofadreamer28, kahlchan, Sammi_Stilinski, Ksoopearl, Kitai_Tavar, Aim1107, DarkNothing, beauteousbeing, Mezzydom, Obsessed_fan_365247, lejaker, Theredcloak1115, Maknaefan1, maliayukimura, theresathelark, Lucelia, DiffidentDruid, arshew, ApricityFae, LexxxLiz28, shifox2310, TheGreenEyes, Diamondfire425, mitternachtsblau, Moonshiner, XxSuperNova_Nebula_BlackxX, Annamalvin, Twztdkid07, ma_r, CaityGirlWolf, BitisGabonica13, Kloeschen, Kiheigirl, AmIThereYet, ShioretaHana, johannats, DaJanae, Ryanne_isaninja, anelfpartdeux, js1, blackeyedvixen, jflowerlady, villegas_lady, Sad_Suggestion, Person_0, Lilithien, Firewolf178, jageun, jaxxOnasty, IvySaur211, 
               and 1198 more users
            User_13, battlemylove, Rajdip, Lolamori, LieutenantofSatan, Mafer00000, Meylinroxy, Freitzeit, Ariel_Lazarus, ananova, GumybearsKim, Xylophonetrees, limpeelee, Liliann, The_dark_outcast, supertangerine, ozzcrow, Winterlynne_Norvic, joanna08, Askir2019, BigBadRaspberry, rider4u, Hurricane1992, LexTheKennedy, tsukihi_kurumichan, StarlightforN, Aanotherworldaway, MillieMay04, itsalwayshardinthemorning, Natalia_Nikiforova, i_am_a_little_fangirl, annej_granger, nothingonlyme, Kisakraze7, BBeth57, Lrndng, StereknSpuffy4Eva, Melika, galacticsunflower, annah5939, zEridani, Sarcastic_Black_Cat, alaniss19, May10123, CornishGryphon, Gothicelfs, AkashaV, silaofasgard, geordielynn, Bakekateable, ikwubls, Meghan8awesome, deathbypixies, Kellan_Nix, TrainWrexs, PamAdAnguis, Evangeline_Purgatory88, Gepard, shallowmiss, chynataon, SarBailey, Lystrate, secretlittleboxes, Bmurray946, Amara_Darcy, Anielinka, hellcat_lynx, OmegaJay, Tarlack, Savethe_outcasts, ChelseaRAWRs, Danaheim, Rae, Bookwyrm3ny, Shanatora, Ositopolarlector00, tiny14xx, drenamen, WaywardPanda, Missenigma2, WickedKira, SerenaD2, StasjaTum, Infinityoftime, SamAndDeanInTheTardis, SkyeWater24, TEPE3A, Battlewood, green_grrl, 5ammi90, Zoloa3, Izzardgrl, The_Madd_Hatter, InterruptedCadence, SmidgenFae, Dudnik, Rahenerys, Liaroslynn, Headinabook, miranda1, Brireader3, boocare, Yuureed, GingerSpice, Skylar971, PlasmaBear, GreenenEve, Linas_ink, FrancoisH, TarnishedVelvet, FastAndAdrift, krissteenuh, AMH_TW98, zacekova, iamisaac, LexiFarrow, superwholockedfangirl, Reignshade, Gaia626, absynthe, ANightWithNoMoon, Kiti_the_Warrior_Poet, NeonBlack31, boyd39527, Mibys, Nehams13, mhills2, Virgin_Princess_Woes, HikariStar, FrankyR, van551, paradiseisdreamland, maycollins, s_juno, Namita, Whynotmle, thinkwritexpress, Blackbird8, lalunarosa, Sparklesbabe101, ImpishInklings, Agdila, Ash333, Lightweightkate, Samilu, Underestimated90, Alexandrea, Stygitsune, satinillia, SouthernSherlockian, lanirose, Lazy_Queen, Peepahsocky, Jasems, actuallygago, Svenimaus99, Anika_Utoa, Alexandria_Clearwater, Twin_Lathyrus, Halimede, Stardust_Mage, Skb9, BunneyofDoom, Quetra, billie_car, InsertWittyUsername, GriffinThing, twinkle_toes_12, phoenixmoon00, honeyandvenom, mark_me, ImperatorAD, TheAntistrophe, BlueMoon45, Sam_thing, travelinglamb, Clymenestra, Killiluv89, Panella13, sofiaottoman, SongOfTheNortheast, Xylone, Kitsune_saphy, AllWorkInProgress, DeanieBoBeanie, MDelfina, Shana13, imnotkryptoniteforfun, kjanddean, agirlcalledbob, Emrysthewitch, Rebecca_Hil, kleool, renelf, Jinx13, VoldieBeth, Infinity83, Nanita90a, sotheytellme, amapolaonfire, winsisterwolf, Wednesday_addams_potter, Lambbabies, CarryOnMySwanSong, LilithStilinski_Hale, PTDean, apackofsmokes, acourtofdreamzandreality, Kaykav, Raaeno, Psyren22, wickeddeeds, Ladykrose, Strawberryflower, tataniastorm, Bashfyl, 8thWeasley, TheUnquietDead, jungkookie97ismybias, TheBigBadHybrid, hp_doc_who, RainbowPotato11, uisdanna, LovinglyLoquacious, JudgeH, Sneaky_Ninja_Muffin, that_one_sarcastic_ginger, Superwolf221b, CharmingCharmain, timelrdtom, Pdxtrent, Imafreakything, Icemaiden690, iBingu, Dark_oreo25, KMK101, cynthia1590c, Virginie_Sophie, Berlinghoff, IsaaVz, I_am_sam, kjen72, Anxiety_Baker02, riveroad, LifeIsAMystery33, MyKinkyFantasies, Leliana, wizardingwolf, OctaveMajor, kawsome, Arabella_Dupree, Monaghanboy, SparrowFliesSouth, Lostnights, TrashLord99, 557dgt, val_peppa, LorraineBattaglia, ayienne, AlecMcDowell, Allireadisfanfics, charmedones_p3, TheDevilWithin3, lismad2008, Korryn_Marie, MichaelMellIsMyBabyBoy, Night06Reader, Kristy_C, LunaWolf, aiimina, Ao_o, Banis67, MissScales, DarkOrb, maskofthedawn, bvckytony, TrashyUnicorns, SarahGri99, inevitabletony, RiahLuv, MoonQueenShiro47, terentiaS, tjacobs1046, Emrysa07, Eternally_Lost_in_Sorrow, Tami_Lane, empty_bones, DeiStarr, liethelle, Carajaelle, Dark_Amethyst18, lynannefett, DarthAdipa, EchoStar, huffleshutthefkup, Alessan, Lanval, DsGt06, lostnight, lytheros, Darkvixen1, I_D_E_K, Phosphdemonium, legendsrose13, thorlay, Persephoneblack19, Nuki98, Egyptian_Cat_Thief, dewlily, QueenofNerds21, Viewfindergrazy, Enkelimain, coolgrin, strawberryjei, MayuCERISE, inteligrrl, Marufp, lifealwaysgetbetter, SoulessAmazon, Ladyaiel, mucunagos, Goshikku, Olorisstra, Hail_The_Angel, Trinrose, grimexcyl_9949, mysticdragons, TheQueenOfStars, Yrid, spy013, Jupiterohwell, HP_PJLover4ever, PheonixShadow, MiniV, TeenWolfy, Ironmann, GeorgiaRose297, bandgeek11, ASandini, Spoopyspooponaloop, milind2010, gemma13, NekoSamurai3, Rosera, insomnia_reader0402, wuoreb, Vanann2119, wam6996, minniethemoocher, Esmeralda82, KaijuQueen, DarknessQueen_2000, Rubyy, jess_wolfsbane, ElliesBookparadise, Just_another_reader, Mione28, WolfLover555, eileenstilinskihale, Spashe, machecea_24, Zbee, Alyha07, AngeSama, WickedRosie, StressFest426, YesPleaseMore, LadyVitya, Crimsonetta, Sumeri, Gotham_neko, The_Secretly_Obsessed, Roebakk, Betta_fangirl, KayyJayy, Katdrea, AriannaGrace, Nessa0913, rimabeans, EmoButterfly, Kaimee, BringsTheSnow, Guy_U_Anonymous, Lockheart11997, tonicat, Dark_crow_skies, TensiTsukiTenshi, Hannah_christinee, Wibbly_alien, actkell, fandomsworld99, jenmelia, AkiraSetsuka, kaboom889, Piner76, Phoenix_Fyre_314, alchemeanie, ArdienteDeseo, Kitten1321, Kevinm1970, DrudieDruid, dont_break_my_little_fangirl_heart, Eminemilie, Kitty_Tokyo_Uzumaki, Dragon_Faeries, chronodaimon, Fisherlou8, Sakisd7, Quirky_Sunflower, ArdeaMoon, read_addictive, anschula, Im__satan, anthia82, Bringit, Dainial, This_False_Facade, saraholmgreen, WyldBorn, Sugar_n_spice, Curious_as_Cheshire, stalwart, lolo72673, EmpressAelin, roararose, anj710, danceofshadows, Schizophrenic_angel13, Kabochan, fiona_ellie, Miss_Paige, KimTaebb97, kokokiva, colourlessuniverse, fandomtrashxoxo, Call_of_Poseidon, Akelly9065, Kooma, Vafrous_Vee, Fruitlessberry, Tiffcat, Blh888, Okayy_Nikki, HannahRT, aussiemel, Sanity_is_hard_to_keep, supermun, MyrlinaLehua, Silentia_Rain, vanteteart, mortem_kate, nightinor, Schwarzfeder, vindice, Uratha, Helheims_Last_Defender, ComEhard_4_Reasons, ShikiSha, kaisam, KittenConspiracy, owltatto25_01, EctoPanda, EveStephie, Lunamoon1987, chaparrita2001, ash89006, shadow_gamer, FrostyKoala543, CMRA, HarleyJQuin, fireflystars, Madjuju, MarsPlanetsGirl, Still_Falling_angel, Itsallaboutnarusasu, DavXLau, Lioness_In_Training, saltyunicorn, Shineysparklz, Lavender_Scented_Death, Dracoria, dual_winchesters, Miss_Suri, ArnellAlannan, whathehell, Maxph1107, Yahooderder, crossoverAUman, promethea999, Lauraaa222, Ambertink, Happylifekm, Kaykat_the_couchsitter, NathTE, Rubyru1990, sauronsminion, Gokkan, HYACINTH77, Wolf_impressions, TheOneTheyCallWeird, MischiefWolfy, Roxas31, Rhia89, deadgloves, kdtm, bindsy, headcanonsandwhatifs, nightphonix, chrisvel, Turtle13, Florenci4, IWriteSinsNotStraightLines, jasondragon64, Krystal_Chaos, Mark_Of_Serafina, AnneP, little_bxrd, ennanitsua, SINslayer7, ZhaneSilverman, Jennyfael, lemon_pennie, jgood27, Teaminator, aglet, Anarawells, atlasescape, Ailovlovyuu, ameve2, Siriusly_loves_Remus, nedra19, McCostaMc, liewithme, DragonMcBaine, Duck_Detective, TheDeviantMage, Felix_Silver, MelonSeed, SapphireKageKyuura92, hytrd, Alisson, Luna_dioxin, vulcan21, Rhiance, Lasley1592, Kyla_Inumaru, Theladyoftheland, LilliesoftheField, Katherine_Adhara, Lavatsa, KiaraRebolledo, FER483, StereotypicalScorpio, kbradshaw23, Sassh, Doced_Peaches, Alaric1608, Candy_Cane, Fangirl_5711, BornInTheDusk, Daniriddle, LordDracon, StoryFanatic, aScePheonix, IceWitch, Wolf2, rosymax, choral212, youmccall, Lilliannabing, Pheonyx, NightOptic, Shana78, Strangerthings4, Thai_614, Arfina, crimeandlawless, star_scrap, dmarcela13, csjg1ce, patrese1, CrownClounHellen, Hockey_Lover31, thejennmarie, TPWK_tw, Lovemelikeyoudo22, nggyunglydngraahy, flutter_owl, Genderlessgoon, cat_is_here, Agwie, sky051571, LoveGD, Apollo95, Simmie63, Tony_Ampxero20, Fee_Verte, Vathen454, Joeybird, TakeCareOfYouBaby, Hylian_Mage, shirokokoro, Silly_Shade, sooyougiestan, Kokora, meiscof, Tiki17, winchesteenwolf, synisolfer, LadsOnTour, Wil2space, Amayzin, Modog34, Weeplikeanangel, Minastara, HaruPotter15, Tiger0905, nineorfour, CoffeeaddictMel, ZaZziX, JaneErikaBrady, Sissie_Fiction, BobOmnNom, Liz10s, Nifredil, wonderwomanspowerbottom, eeyore9990, Freyagirl, Magicmel89, Kami23, kamisama666, Dragonka, Dumb_butch, Duracez, Jluis, Idahoxha51, n1kkii, kyoyathepineapple, mieraspeller, yuki_yuki, Natrim, damnfancyscotch, wolfgilr, Montoya33, derekhalesroom, 00superwholocksian, DrunkenElk, UnicornViolence, Wakahisha, 1trxnnxr1, MacyFandom, Alatriel, Faceforasmile, JFC, FantasySlytherinLiz95, imwinningthegame, Ghostii_Bee3, ZoeysZone, Zayev, Kagy83, Volcam20, the_lost_clone, Rickdicted, Stilinski_Charm, SleepingDragonfly, lt3verabe, arialist, TrisanaShadows, Wish4Wonderland, Spiker, Memento_Mori2, idontevenknow, ajsolomon14, Jadein, Fujoshin95, Blackmagic661, SkyingX, LithePanther, kmcmahon, fan_of_fanfiction_1, booklover22, kuroneko22, Celestial_body13, CrimsonEyedKitsune, Amiepew, Silver_Swirl, ShadowBeauty11, LoadedSunlight, foodinfamous, RobinFlare, Lobo_malvado666, Roadkill, Emlyn2, embersinashes, rainraider, aneval, djoyk, Allen17202, StellarSpirit, mena_levine, Marvel2525, alexnali101, Valkyria99, Sblck, DarkLadySnow, SiriusBlackWinchester, skatanotfound, The_Doctour, osgiliath, necroticfandoms, ThaisLuna, hazelyukiko, Ren_SxR, Lady_Smithereen, MissAdorable96, skm321, ThroughTheTulips, BlackShadow2314, slystrukk, angelisis79, ravensrookery, Fandomfangirl96, BubbleGirl08, Tsakushi, Enlin1, Iknowitsthere, Lazypanda, DatAwesomeWeirdo123, Pizzalover2104, robbinnhoodie, 73comequ, Beoreon_Berethel, JustJ575, euforiav, NatsumeCross, BloodyTuesday, Arquan, LeafRunner, theworldiknewx3, Lettu, MacyGracie16, SeaSeraph, hentaianimemaniac101, 56_Dark_nemesis, DeadTimeDear, KitsuneGirl, Sleepstone, gamesprite, stereklover0330, The_Girl_Who_Read, The_Armada_of_Ships, GhostWolf, CuzCuz050897, Lapetitesirene4800, Niyuu, wondercap, DemetraRoseRiddle, iSoulPhoenix, Garakika, CelticFox, GlendaLuthor, HellKat, atleast3shadesofgreen, VoidNexus, Misademon, QueenB_iatch, scrubmarine, Shameless85, crimsondraconis, karrahbear, TheHorridTruth, Darling_Angel, ElmMidnight7591, Eejjaa, sonwolf, Dorian_L_Rivers7, Everisae, iammorningstar, SAILORCAT, Tute350, slytherinchic23, Bookwormivy, kazueR, KallistiTheDarkHuntress, Aloki, liberty_rose, Alrac_2360, erikaxtc, Mbernal0867, MelUnGarded, kgelston, renarderrant, Frostychi, letusgofarfaraway, QueenB, Khloconut, xOphiuchusx, Myxes, childofn, Sima, XxsilentiumxX07, SilverMoon, phoebus1991, Howling_at_the_moon, Mystre, Blutregen, Colorsfadetogray, charliedodgson, SonofHelios, Chibi_Overlord, 0287Phoenix, astarinlife, Ma14li, IDoNotEvenGoHere, LissStLieb, lilzea, Austin7177, PlumeHavane, VampirePrinssess, AwkwardPotterFan, lexi18, rrenvy, missydeeoh, Bruno_Raeken, Mari1126, Booksrule329, OneDoesNotSimplyWalkIntoMordor, Nallasunshine, hand, K4RK1TTY, Itsjacky, Sammyfox, rosareally, lilacqueen, Ravennae, Nessielovechild, magicmotion, cr0wgrrl, mishmish44, sisforsterek, cltaltdlt, Natalie668, Hushpuppy22, Devileatsredapples, pop722004, nemin, Curiouser_nd_Curiouser, Lena204, soapyricen, DarkMerlin, ManekiRai, Amour_mort88, LycanLover, Chansoo4life, Truth, AquariusSEAL99, jd_1110473, Mitsuki67, Pyro_Aquarius, Treetalkers, BlaiddDrwg696, GJCorrales, Riencrz, Busckers, belindanz, sk_inkognito, Jomck1973, Luxferas, WereKirin, surfgirl1, AerynJay, readingtoomuchfanfic, Cyrus_Says, Lojuba, Obsessedandlovingit, AngelNDarkness, SamanthaPerry0, LeaBugg, Calia293, MrSaine, ptliz, Methyl, BetaZack, ellie, Herlilacskies, Remusofpaper, Greece17, gal100, RowanFalar, TiaVeronica, Harry_Potters_Guardian_Angel, FallingPixie, Here_Be_Nerds, Hankycka, FieldsofAsphodel, Onekick, Phantom0677, i3ernadette, OrionProngs, Sakurai_Haruka, IrishTeaCat, mizlizplantlady, Cassisins, Morrigan_Black, lafemmeluna, Bravesbabycj10, howlingmysteries, AdamantiaDark, hope_nagai, Kochi_chan, Lizz800, Hirokaisan, aclassiccreator, Xalli_Tocatl, Moonleaf, silverwolf2017, missemerald1, yukihime1827, Zirconium40, part_of_the_background, dear_beatrice, Fallencherub, simplystilinski, peacock915, beaches_at_treasure_island, adamaris12526, Debauchi, Just_a_tad_bit_fanatic, ThayetRosethorn, Paradoxical_prodigy, Momokai, whatdoyouthinkiknow, Kpopislove92, glowinthedark, RaphaelNo1, dartuche, PlumeNoire5, AlyssaLaylaVictoria, AnyaMcL, Rollyzen, Cj_Quinn72, Larry3830, ObsidianWings_666, mokomokosama, Indus, Dawnieangel76, oowerkte, demona13, OrganizedBedlam, Meg625, Jaggedheart, ForeverCrushing, TheKMuffin, ulajaybisc, KathleenRaven, Sophie_Wolf, Loppss, katgurl, guardiandeitynoya, JellyfishPrince69, thetruemo, GreysAnatomyFan, BritishRobutt, TsukiSukari, optimisticDucky, madasabloodyhatter, KittyBlackCat, Rija, Raikiruka, Laria, Rekay21, vwc, Breelopex, Keelysmoony, Dia86, TimTamBaby92, heyMissyYouSoFine, FriendlyFirefly, Aeiradne, SomebodyThatYou, iiii, SummerSniper, Calypso_M, Sajahi, changeling_faye, docbrisingr, InsomniacNedinBed, Moonnella, The_Shadow_King, PrincessOfPie, Dragonfyre76, Rainingnight1, shotinthedark221, Denelzasaur, Jewls1, AnaisNinRN, Leijah, 21_Dana, Erin_Thorne, KErisLove, BluBull, Fingergun_mcgee, MyShipSailsHere, lkat, Esmutante, Polarium, Aurelius431, BlueIsJustPretty, AngelsWill, KaitlinBoylanRowan1104__WOLFE1211, Foxtron, MartinSL, katie89, fanfictionaddict, Kure06, AkagamiNaruto, Meaghan898, lost1gryff, Janet4, FastFadingFiction, pisces1331, Lady_tiger_Loki13, m_winnike, Swimdraconian, JazamineL, momo313, Texboi525, silversnakes, SchirleyMirelly, HalleRozally, Drazier, ToasTira, LizzyBookworm19, Dino_Girl93, Samster85, mishymew_0, Jessielou2222, UnlikelyHero36, Justadoll14, AlnaTheRhyperographer, indispensable, MasterDragonChi, mizukihikari, loubug, Hermitrae, prowlingleopard, angelwingz21, Icy_Doll, Iliveforromance, WriterLou, Psycho_the_ARMY, Dragonpink2002, rainyday88, StormyRainFlames, Tariono4ka, loki2503, Randomwoman, Fab2mum, Babyb34r, Yullenpyon, asachc, mercuryfire_6471, Gemmie_Bear, culroon, LivesUnderARock, Azhrie139, spellchecked, skyland3_nightfall, DivergentWizard, FlamingLupine, Sarkaro, dominguixcidio, DuskBeforeDawn, Christie_Cat643, David4oh, reishin, DragonRyder, RasalynnLynx, shay3939, SpicySweet, aFellowNerd, draconicCarnage, LadyCroft_Undead19, FadedMemories, beri, LadyRachelStark, BlackytheDemon, BaileyBlu, avenda35, ayidaaa, deathismyduty, SweetChikaCherryCola, Sweetmossroses, kinki_1, Vampykitty_kun, Spartan, Seashells_By_Seashore, RaxonDevious, elathanverin, Anonanonanonana, hiddenagent, Splash_of_bi, jack09tern, catschmi, Mumuuu, ElspethMcGillicuddy, MissLollee, heroesfan33, Black_Thanatos, notaparasite, AdoringlyWhoring, lanaco, Kuroki_Reiya, Versipellis, ellebriley05, amechell, beenwandering, Lucifer_Luci, AshleyStewart, draechaeli, Pieri_Ale, Ipsum59, mysweetvillain, Midnight93, Anabialexandre, Heyokaooohshiny, WordsandChocolate, Valquesse101, MurphtheSmurf, Jbay32900, bloodyhamster, TheQueeninMourningHasASecret, Silverz, sandybeach22, Civility, MKO1133, Amethyst13, TaylorMercuryMayDeacon, thegirlwhodreamswhileawake, KFlynn, Alvina, Turn180degrees_itsSTILLnotENOUGH, RyenSelenityCaliburn, Mielle, CaptnSlash, xolotlacracia, Rebecca789, Akita_Kira, Sstarr, Evegner, Linny527, Sairo_flag, J0j0c4, ahellapanwriter, Kyzhart, iamarebel, just_kidding_for_real, Jackrabbitlover9915, DancingByMyself97, redinblack, LadyOfPearls, PoliticallyObsessedScholar, High_Serpent_King, EllieJayH, MOONWOLFII, StarkTech19, AmirahWayne, PaleNoFace, IvanovaRangerOne, belindavalentinebite, Leonansidhe, COUCH1964, Kitkat6912, msilverstar, kizunakat, Jax_Withoutmoon, Kaia12Renkin34, Emmikus, Juszaawi, rowenyourboat, Almighty_Tallest, leo_kage95, merry_contrary, Mary15Catrina10, HH_Hugs, tyamoth, Hella_Meyers, tigrislilium, shirozero, Blueskydancers, Aleksandra_Hale, Calysta, Khim_Azaghal, NikoPerry101, SourwolfKing, Tamilia1295, cl0sed0wn and journalanxiety
             as well as 
          1092 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          This work's creator has chosen to moderate comments on the work. Your comment will not appear until it has been approved by the creator.
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
