      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling
              Relationship:
               Sirius Black/Remus Lupin
              Characters:
               Remus LupinSirius Black
              Additional Tags:
               Top Remus LupinBottom Sirius Blackdude there are too many kinks im not gonna write them allmaybe just some that ppl might get miffed abtDaddy KinkKnife Kinkbut not reallyFeminizationFluff and Smut(attempted) ThreesomeDom/sub PlayMarauders Era (Harry Potter)
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-06Updated:2020-10-11Words:2522Chapters:5/31Comments:6Kudos:33Bookmarks:4Hits:526
      but if you're spending the night (then what the hell is heaven even for?)
      haentai
          Summary:
              Remus and Sirius' sexual ventures across the years, except it's all about kinktober2020.
  Notes:
      i attempted plot bois. but porn is still the focus (it'sh kinktober after all)also i'm posting this later bc i'm writing a bunch at a time (who seriously has the time who do this every time? i respect you if you do) then posting (and mayb bc i didn't expect to do this in the first place haha)also also the chapters are very short (see the point above)the list i'm following is this one (i don't follow/know them, but the list looked cool so).title is from works every time by mini mansions.
      Chapter 1: HANDJOB
    Chapter Text
    Their first kiss is a dare, during the Halloween Party of ‘74 in the Hufflepuff Common Room. Violet Pantaloons grins the moment Sirius Black chooses dare, and later positively cackles as she watches Sirius’ face drain of all colour (and Remus has never been the bearing-grudges type, but if Pantaloons happens to trip down the stairs, he won’t be particularly gutted about it). James, because he either knows too much or doesn’t know anything at all, starts chortling like a tosser.
And then Sirius looks in his direction (and Remus tries very hard to not read too much into Sirius’ expression because he looks terrified and Remus would rather not think about why that is), so Remus gives him a (hopefully) sympathetic smile, before leaning in.
The snog is short, dry, tight-lipped and, considering the way Sirius worms away from him after, deeply unsatisfying. And Remus doesn't expect for it to happen again.
Except it does.
James is training on the Quidditch Pitch, Peter’s in detention and for some reason, Sirius is at the other side of the room, eyeing Remus, who in turn, tries not to break down under the insistent scrutiny. But then, Sirius jumps off his bed and marches toward Remus’, and Remus feels sudden sweat beading on his upper lip.
“Can I help you, Pads?” Remus treads carefully, considering how Sirius has been avoiding him these last weeks (since their kiss, but Remus chooses to not think about that).
As an answer, Sirius straddles his legs, and the book falls from Remus’ grip.
How do they end up here, Remus does not understand; one moment Sirius’ tongue’s in Remus’ mouth, then the second Sirius’ hand’s in Remus’ pants, past his trousers and currently gripping Remus’ (embarrassingly) hard cock. And thank Merlin Remus was wise enough to begin mouthing at Sirius’ neck, otherwise, his moan would’ve been incredibly loud.
It doesn’t last long, and when Remus goes to reciprocate, Sirius shakes his head, face still tucked into Remus’ shoulder, and says in a strangely strained voice, “already came.”
They never talk about it (seems like a pattern with them) but Sirius does return to normal after that, nudging Remus with his elbow, throwing himself across him in a dramatic fit, grinning at him whenever Remus calls him a wanker. Remus isn’t sure if this is better than before or not.
      Chapter 2: EATING OUT
    Chapter Text
    Mornings must’ve been invented by the Dementors themselves. Because there’s no way, any sane, empathetic person would’ve just woken up (hah) and decided that 7 o’clock in the morning is a fit hour to start the day. Not that Remus ever wakes up at 7 o’clock in the morning, for Godric’s sake, he’s not (that) suicidal. He usually gets up ten minutes before class, throws whatever’s around on him and crawls to his designated classroom.He doesn’t even have to go to the Hall for breakfast, considering the other Marauders either 1. bring him personally a few pain au chocolat wrapped in napkin whenever they don’t share a class (which usually ends with them in detention for being late); or 2. bring the breakfast with them when they do share a class (which usually ends with them in detention for covering the whole desk with every pastry imaginable and/or too many scrambled eggs on toast). Yet another reason why Remus gets all warm inside at the thought of his considerate, however asinine mates.However today, Remus is cursed with the misfortune of waking up at an unholy hour (twenty minutes before class!), so he decides that he might as well go have breakfast like the other mortals.Mornings are brilliant, Remus concludes after seeing Sirius stand up to throw a sausage at Avery, then wink when McGonagall chastises him. Merlin, he looks good. Bet he’d look even better bent over the table.Remus blinks, surprised at the sudden thought, then blinks again when he sees Sirius wave at him maniacally, beckoning him over.How Remus spends his whole day with the image of Sirius bent over every surface available (desk, couch, edge of the bed, his knees) is beyond him. How he visualizes the tantalizing curves of Sirius’ arse in his hands is not something he can comprehend. The shame he feels when Sirius asks him if he’s sick, meanwhile Remus’ red cheeks are just a casualty of him daydreaming about burying his face in Sirius’ arse.How can Remus look at Sirius’ concerned face when all he can think about is the way Sirius would surely writhe, wriggle and arch, trying to get Remus’ tongue deeper in him?Remus is a sick bastard. Nevertheless, if that night he lays on his bed with his hand is his pants, seeing instead of the canopy Sirius straddling his head, looking down at Remus with those sinful eyes as he begs for Remus to let him ride his tongue, his face, well. Nobody has to know.
      Chapter 3: THIGH RIDING
    Chapter Text
    “Sirius, someone’ll see us– I swear, this is the worst fucking idea you’ve ever had… and that’s saying something.”“Moony, shut the fuck up. It’ll be fine. It’s not like it’s the first time we’re doing this.”“Sirius, that was the full moon. We were animals– well, you were animals, I was a monster– anyway, the point still stands. There’s no way we’re not gonna get lost in the Forbidden Forest.”And Remus is fuming, gesticulating wildly, all while not noticing that Sirius has already tricked him, arguing with him while leading the way to the middle of the forest. Only when Sirius grins at him does Remus realise all of this. Gaping, Remus stops to look around (which is proving to be a fruitless action, since the only things surrounding them are trees and more trees) and then his glare falls back on Sirius, debating whether strangling him right then and there would prove worth it in the long run.“Please tell me you know how to get back,” Remus grits out, but Sirius disregards him, continuing his quest on finding a Unicorn. Remus sighs but follows after him. Might as well.“Sirius, I fucking hate you so fucking much. I hope you get lice.” Anyone else who doesn’t know Sirius as much as Remus does would’ve considered the insult childish, but instead Sirius gasps. Anyone else would’ve said that Sirius was taking the piss, but Remus knows that the hurt is real. And he revels in it.“How dare you, Moony! I thought we were mates!”“We were. Before you dragged me in the Forbidden bloody Forest. Now you’re as insignificant to me as Snape’s dirty stockings.”Sirius gasps again, louder and Remus smirk internally. Yes, he knows to hit where it hurts. He deserves it anyway. For dragging Remus to the Forbidden bloody Forest. And for making Remus wander around in the dark because they got lost and didn’t realise for how long they’ve been walking. They didn’t even find a bloody Unicorn.“You still cold,” Remus asks into Sirius’ hair and hums when Sirius shakes his head. “Good,” he says then, tightening his hold around Sirius. Why has no one thought to mention that once deep enough the Forbidden Forest, magic stops working (or starts malfunctioning, considering the way his wand still sends sparks flying every once in a while)? Or that it gets really fucking cold during the night, even in March. Good thing Remus has always run considerably warmer than humans (probably the only good thing, he thinks, watching the moon lighting their small haven from between the tree branches).When Sirius shifts in his lap, Remus lets him adjust his knees on either side of Remus’ hips, arms looping around his torso, under his jumper, nose tucked safely behind Remus’ ear. Suppressing his shiver, Remus resumes skating his hand along Sirius’ back.But then Sirius shivers and Remus figures he might be cold again, so he doubles his efforts; one hand splayed across the small of his back, the other gliding fiercely on every inch of skin it can reach, occasionally scraping his nails across the ridges of his spine. Sirius’ hands fall to Remus’ shoulders and Sirius tenses. “Moony,” he whispers in a trembling voice, and Remus’ heart breaks a little at the helpless sound.“Shh, Pads, I got you.” And then Sirius moans, loud and clear and right into Remus’ ear, and Remus can’t keep telling himself all of Sirius’ reactions are due to the low temperature. His cock throbs in his trousers. His hands falter instantly.“No, don’t stop– Moony,” Sirius moans again, this time arching his back towards Remus’ hands and suddenly Remus can feel Sirius’ own hard cock. Right there, on his thigh. Which it begins to rub against.When Sirius looks him in the eyes, he looks debauched beyond recognition and Remus can’t do anything but lunge forward and snog him. When Sirius comes, he comes in his pants, still rutting against Remus’ thigh like a desperate dog, face contorted in an almost pained expression, and the way Remus’ name falls out of his lips has Remus coming as well.“Definitely not cold any more.”“Sirius, shut the fuck up.”
      Chapter 4: CHOKING/SPANKING
        Notes:
          it's quite sad i couldn't come up with something more exciting :(
    Chapter Text
  When Remus finally arrives at his dorm, he’s sweaty, tired, annoyed and craving rare meat. Why has he gotten the night shift right before the full, is beyond him. People don’t realise that transforming into a wild, bloodthirsty beast of the night is not a six-hour job; the full moon affects him a couple of days before the moon, and the days in which he has to recover 
    after 
  the full moon. 
  He just wants to bury his face in his pillow and let sleep claim him. 
  But of course, that’s not what happens, because fuck him, right?
  Instead, there’s Sirius, in
     Remus’
   bed,
  naked as the day he was born, on his stomach, one leg dancing in the air languidly, reading some Muggle comic.
  Brilliant, now Remus is horny too. Though, Remus reasons, eyeing Sirius’ delectably round arse, maybe Sirius could help him with that.
  And only the way Sirius quacks when Remus smacks his arse, 
    hard
  , is therapeutic enough. Remus can physically feel all the worries of today seeping out at him at the instant hand-shaped mark on Sirius’ cheek. So he holds Sirius down by the neck when he starts yapping and protesting, his other hand laying smack after smack after 
    smack
   on his arse, until the supple flesh glows red and irritated.
  Sirius whimpers pitifully when he feels Remus rub and knead at his enflamed arse, but Remus only tightens his grip on his neck. “Down, boy,” Remus growls, barely recognising his own voice, then purrs when Sirius mewls and falls pliant against his hold.
  “That’s a good boy,” Remus smirks and goes to spank Sirius again before he gets an idea. Wrapping his hand around Sirius’ long neck, Remus whispers into his ear, “count, Padfoot.”
      Chapter 5: DADDY KINK
        Notes:
          i've learned that despite this being a kinktober fic, not much sex (like, actual fucking) is taking place... oh well
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    In Remus’ defence, he did not realise that it’s that kind of book. Which is stupid, in hindsight– that Remus knows– considering the curvy woman draped across a buff, shirtless man with a sword, but honestly, he expected a fantasy book (with some romance on the side). He didn’t expect this. Remus desperately does not think about the fact that he nicked the book from his mother’s library. Remus can never look at the word ‘member’ the same way ever again. Why has he finished the book then, he hears you ask? Well, go mind your own fucking business. Despite probably never going to have sex with a woman again without thinking about all the synonyms of the word ‘thrust’, Remus can confidently say that he’s a changed man (for the best or worst). Who would’ve thought that a book where man’s abs are compared with a ‘temple’s diamond masonry, at which she could faithfully pray from rising until dusk’, would’ve been an eye-opening experience for little Remus. Who frankly, is shocked Clarissa still ends up with Sandor, despite him being an abusive twat, in Remus’ humble opinion. Nonetheless, Remus hasn’t been able to get the book out of his mind. Can’t seem to get that word out of his mind. Especially if he envisions Sirius saying the word– to Remus, as he’s getting his brains fucked out. It’s truly not fair, because how is Remus not supposed to think about being called that the next time they shag. It’s fine (probably), Remus figures at the end. He’s always been known for his self-restraint, among other things. Remus will not think about it from now on.Remus thinks about it for a very long time after that. In fact, he’s thinking about it so much he almost spills (pun not intended) while bollocks deep inside Sirius’ arse. On his hands and knees, Sirius looks as picturesque as a photo of the Tuscan countryside. Sirius is trying to muffle his moans in the pillow, but Remus only grasps a handful on luscious black hair and tugs until Sirius’ sobs are as clear as a summer’s day. “You like that, don’t you,” Remus taunts, only because he knows how much Sirius enjoys it. “You like getting fucked on Da–”And then Remus’ body must’ve sensed that Sirius will discover their little secret, and sent warning signals to Remus’ throat, because the next second he chokes on air and proceeds to cough for the next two minutes. “Merlin’s saggy tits, Moony,” Sirius says, smirking from where he’s awkwardly twisted to watch the (undoubtedly entertaining) mess that is Remus embarrassing himself. “If you plan on dying on me, at least do it after we finished shagging.”Surprisingly, it’s not a slip of Remus’ tongue that gets him discovered. Oh, no, no, no. It’s Sirius finding the bloody book. The book where he’s bookmarked every sex scene (which in fairness, are a good majority of them) in which the word makes an appearance (and yes, Remus acknowledges he’s an absolute moronic knobhead).Remus feels like crying when he sees Sirius with the book in his hands, reading. “I don’t get how you can read this stuff, Moons– this hetero sex looks overwhelmingly unappealing,” Sirius says mildly. “Like, who the fuck actually says ‘member’. Just call it ‘cock’. Merlin.” Then Sirius throws the book somewhere to his left and pins Remus with highly astute eyes.“Er… it’s not what it looks like,” Remus tries and fails miserably. And then Sirius is backing him up against a bed (James’ bed, Remus’ brain supplies unhelpfully), climbing on top of him and pressing their hips together. “Y’know, Moony, if you wanted to shag all you had to do is say– you didn’t have to resign yourself to such unsatisfying fiction.”“Er… right,” Remus says, tentatively looping his hands around Sirius’ hips, trying to not seem too chuffed that Sirius hasn’t figured out his secret.“Now,” Sirius continues, getting out of his shirt. “I think you owe me a shag for having to read that aberration. Right, Daddy?” Remus’ hands freeze from where they were kneading at Sirius’ arse. Filled with dread, Remus looks up to see Sirius’ vixen grin. “C’mon, Daddy. Show me what you’ve learnt from your extracurricular readings.”
        Notes:
          yes ik ik,, i don't imagine in the '70s smutty chick lit was that prevalent (or existent, for that matter,, but i haven't really looked into it tbh) but like, how else am i gonna integrate daddy kink in our boys' lives?? i am grasping at straws!!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (6)
  Comments
          aitbabv, Edogawa_Haibara, Bisexual_Mystery, zootanon, cimmonadecheetah, msrosie01, Whatever_her_name_is, Mauness, tereoleneva, Queen_of_Moons04, ChuckAl, joonbugily, Sha_Yojeong, manixzen, Soraofuranus, triplecrossroads, blue0owl, and lana239
             as well as 
          15 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
