      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Preludio
2. Intermezzo I
3. Codetta
4. Cadenza
5. Da Capo
6. Contrappunto
7. Crescendo
8. Capriccio I
9. Accelerando
10. Custos I
11. Dissonante
12. Caesura
13. Antifona
14. Malinconico
15. Intermezzo II
16. Triste
17. Culminano
18. Armonioso
19. Capriccio II
20. Scherzando
21. Custos II
22. Rêverie
23. Fuga
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               F/F
              Fandom:
               響け! ユーフォニアム | Hibike! Euphonium (Anime)
              Relationships:
               Kousaka Reina/Oumae KumikoNakaseko Kaori/Tanaka AsukaNakagawa Natsuki/Yoshikawa YuukoKasaki Nozomi/Yoroizuka Mizore
              Characters:
               Kousaka ReinaOumae KumikoNakaseko KaoriTanaka AsukaNakagawa NatsukiYoshikawa YuukoKasaki NozomiYoroizuka MizoreOgasawara HarukaKatou HazukiKawashima "Midori" SapphireTaki NoboruMatsumoto MichieTsukamoto ShuuichiTakigawa ChikaoOumae Mamiko
              Additional Tags:
               RomanceHigh SchoolInspired by MusicPost-SeriesCanon Compliant with the First Two SeasonsNot Canon Compliant with the Last Two Films
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Rhapsody in E series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2016-09-12Updated:2020-04-20Words:51603Chapters:23/?Comments:1025Kudos:865Bookmarks:88Hits:18685
      Rhapsody in E Major
      BleedingBlade
      Chapter 23: Fuga
          Summary:
            In which Natsuki tries her hand at being a eupho-mama (also known as the chapter where Natsuki takes on being an immovable object in the face of an unstoppable force).
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    FUGA
   noun fu·ga \ˈfügə\
   : a complex and highly regimented contrapuntal form in music 
“Yo. Need a hand?”The figure standing by the side of the condiments counter turned around at the sound of Natsuki’s voice and waved distractedly.“I’m good with these, but could you help me find us seats?”Natsuki nodded and made a beeline for two barstools at a corner window.As soon as they’d settled in, Oumae-chan wordlessly slid Natsuki a Java Chip Frappuccino.“Whoa! My favorite! How much do I owe you?”The younger euphonist waved a hand dismissively. “It’s on me. It’s the least I can do for dragging you out here in this freezing weather.”Natsuki shook her head. “Nah, it’s good. I thought I needed some air anyway.” She took a brief sip of her drink before smacking her lips in satisfaction.“So…” Natsuki spoke as she directed a sideways glance at her junior, “what can I help you with? It sounded pretty urgent over the phone.”The younger euphonist fiddled with the stirrer of her Cinnamon Chai while Natsuki took another long pull of her coffee. Then without any warning, her junior suddenly blurted out: “I wanted to ask you for advice about sex!”And just like that, Natsuki sprayed half of the contents of her Frappuccino onto the window.As she coughed to clear her throat, Oumae-chan began to wipe the glass with a wordless efficiency that hinted at a long-standing familiarity. Natsuki wheezed. A dozen discordant responses resounded throughout her head, but the only one she managed to squeak out loud after she could finally breathe again was: “Why are you asking me?? Shouldn’t you be asking Asuka-senpai??”As soon as the words were out, Natsuki froze.For several long moments, she and Oumae-chan just stared at each other.“Forgive me,” Natsuki finally apologized at length after several images of the black-haired euphonist dispensing all manner of inappropriate erotic advice—while cackling in perverse glee—had paraded through her mind. “The temporary deprivation of oxygen to my brain prevented me from thinking clearly.”Natsuki took another small sip of her Frappuccino to stall for time. “Asuka-senpai aside, I’m sure there’s a bunch of other people you can ask for advice—”“You’re the only one I can ask!” the younger euphonist wailed. “Asuka-senpai’s liable to kill my libido by putting me on some Jedi Knight program—or worse, kill me altogether with some Hunger Games regimen—and my sister doesn’t know about me and Reina—and my parents don’t know anything either—about me and Reina, I mean, not about sex—not that I’d even ask my parents for advice about sex—”“Okay, okay, okay!” Natsuki raised her hands placatingly before her junior could start hyperventilating. “I—I get that you don’t have anyone else. Just—Just give me a couple of moments to—to, um, review what I, um, know…”“Okay,” the younger euphonist replied in a small voice, “thanks, Natsuki-senpai…”Natsuki smiled crookedly. “Don’t thank me yet. I don’t know if I’ll have the answers you’re looking for, after all. But I’ll do my best.”Then taking a deep breath to calm herself, Natsuki took stock of the situation. As shocking as Oumae-chan’s sudden request had been, she did have to admit that it was gratifying in its own way.After all, this was Oumae-chan: a girl who, for one reason or another, tended to attract geniuses who needed help in some kind of way. And now that she needed help herself, it was Natsuki whom she’d approached.And it wasn’t just any kind of help she needed—it was advice about sex.Despite herself, Natsuki felt a flush of pride bloom in her chest.So what if there were advanced techniques that she couldn’t explain to Oumae-chan by dint of being a perpetual bottom?? This was just their first consultation after all, and she figured that she could probably fill the hour by sticking to the basics of the first and second bases.As for what went on beyond that and what was needed to score a home run or two…she could probably coerce Yuuko to divulge more specific details during one of their regular “sports discussions.”With her initial anxieties allayed, Natsuki took another deep breath before turning to the younger euphonist. Despite her bravado, however, she could still feel her cheeks reddening as she asked: “So…what…what do you want to know about…about sex?”Oumae-chan paused. As Natsuki took another sip of her drink, her junior abruptly replied: “How—How do you keep yourself from having it??”And just like that, Natsuki sprayed the remaining half of her Frappuccino onto the window.As she pressed a wad of napkins to the glass, she sighed. “You should get me a much cheaper drink the next time you treat me to coffee,” she muttered. “All I’ve done so far is caffeinate the windows.”Then turning to Oumae-chan in bewilderment, Natsuki asked: “What do you mean when you say ‘how do you keep yourself from having it??’”The younger euphonist wrung her hands in distress. “I mean, how—how do you manage your—your urges?? Because, you know, they can get really…urgent.”Natsuki blinked. “But why would you even want to manage your urges?? The last I checked, there’s no way a girl can knock her girlfriend up, you know what I mean?”Oumae-chan looked at her aghast. “But—But there’s a proper order to this sort of thing! Even if—Even if you can’t get your—your girlfriend pregnant, marriage usually comes first, then sex, and then maybe kids—““Whoa!!!” Natsuki threw her hands up to derail her junior’s accelerating train of thought. “Hold your horses right there, kiddo! Are you—Are you telling me that you’re planning to marry Kousaka-san??”She’d asked the question as a joke—and was therefore absolutely floored when Oumae-chan replied without batting an eyelash: “Of course. Why? Aren’t you planning to marry Yuuko-senpai?”Natsuki opened and closed her mouth as words failed spectacularly to materialize. After a few moments, she began to rummage in her backpack.“What are you looking for?” Oumae-chan asked.“My sunglasses,” Natsuki muttered, before finally locating the pair and carefully putting them on.Her junior blinked. “Why are you wearing your shades in here??”Natsuki replied gravely: “To protect my jaded eyes from the blinding radiance of your purity.”Oumae-chan whined. “You’re not taking me seriously, Natsuki-senpai!!!”Natsuki sighed as she took the sunglasses off. “Ok, fine. Just—Just give me a moment to mourn what I lost just now.”As the younger euphonist obediently paused, Natsuki bowed her head in the silence of her mind. Goodbye, my sex guru self. Our time together was shockingly short—but surprisingly sweet. Just like any decent roll in the hay.Then pinching the bridge of her nose, Natsuki turned to her junior. “Alright. Explain something to me first: If what you want to know is the art of abstinence, what made you think that I’d be an expert??”Oumae-chan started fidgeting with her stirrer again. “Well, I know Yuuko-senpai stayed over at your place last New Year’s Eve—and all you did was, well, spring clean—and I figured that if you were able to keep your hands off her—I mean, it must have been hard given how you were both going at it at the stairwell last Halloween—so I figured that, given all that, you must know a thing or two about holding back…”As the younger euphonist trailed off, Natsuki stared at her in shock. “Wait, you think Yuuko and I—you really think we didn’t—you honestly believe we haven’t—and that we spent New Year’s Eve just spring cleaning—“At the continued sight of Oumae-chan’s earnest, entreating and expectant face, however, Natsuki abruptly shut up.For some reason, it had suddenly felt like saying anything more would be the equivalent of telling a five-year old child that Santa Claus didn’t exist.As Natsuki continued to gaze at her junior, she was hit by several emotions at once. The first was an overwhelming sympathy for Kousaka-san’s situation. The second was a heightened respect for Oumae-chan’s obliviousness. And the third was a newfound appreciation of Asuka-senpai’s surprisingly enduring parental concern.I suppose this must be how the Buddha felt when Brahmā Sahāmpati, the King of the Gods, begged him to teach the Dharma to all suffering beings on the night of his enlightenment, Natsuki wept in the silence of her mind.As she surrendered to the sudden surge of tenderness in her heart, Natsuki abruptly clasped Oumae-chan to her chest. “My poor child…” she whispered as she blinked back unexpected tears. “There, there, you can rest your weary head on my bosom…Geez, Oumae-chan, you’re such a hopeless spaz. It’s no wonder Asuka-senpai can’t let you go.”“Natsuki-senpai,” Oumae-chan croaked from somewhere underneath Natsuki’s chin. “My head doesn’t really feel weary right now, but it is beginning to hurt from your lack of a bosom…”Natsuki released the younger euphonist suddenly. “Okay,” she breathed as she wiped the back of her hand across her nose and squared her shoulders in determination. “It’s alright, Oumae-chan. I’ve got your back. So,” she took a deep breath, “what have you, um, tried…?”“I’ve tried everything!” her junior wailed as she wrung her hands in agitation once again. “I’ve tried taking cold showers. I’ve tried busying myself to the point of exhaustion. I’ve tried meditating. I’ve tried chanting the Hannya Shingyō. I’ve tried taking cold showers while chanting the Hannya Shingyō—”“You know the Hannya Shingyō?? Since when were you Buddhist??”“I’m not Buddhist!” the younger euphonist buried her face in her hands. “I’m just desperate.”“Alright,” Natsuki paused. Oumae-chan had tried at least five different things…which was five more than Natsuki herself had ever tried.Because the fact of the matter was, if Natsuki wasn’t an appropriate teacher for advanced sexual techniques, she was even less qualified as an instructor of basic abstention strategies—for the simple reason that her girlfriend didn’t understand the meaning of the word “restraint.”After all, when it came to getting what she wanted, Yuuko tended to apply the blunt force of a chainsaw.All of which simply meant that Natsuki had to get Oumae-chan to consider a different approach altogether.“Oumae-chan…” Natsuki ventured hesitantly, “I get that you’re, um, trying to maintain your ideals…but have you—have you talked to Kousaka-san about any of this at all?”“I can’t!” her junior immediately wailed. “Reina always looks so stricken and upset after our makeout sessions—and she gets so evasive when I try to find out why—that I really don’t want to risk asking her anything outright…”Natsuki blinked. “Riiight.”She had a pretty good idea why Kousaka-san would look so stricken and upset.In fact, practically everyone in the gang had a pretty good idea why Kousaka-san frequently looked stricken and upset.Unfortunately, Natsuki had never been good—and never been comfortable—with direct confrontations of any kind. She’d always been the silent and steady supporting type…and now she was finding that life-long tendency kicking in full force.“I’m afraid that I don’t have any advice to offer you right now, Oumae-chan,” Natsuki finally admitted. “But give me some time to figure something out. In the meanwhile, just, um, try visualizing Kousaka-san as...as…Jibo Kannon. It might, erm, help put you in a different frame of mind…”The younger euphonist’s amber eyes brightened. “That’s brilliant, Natsuki-senpai! That just might work. Especially if I carry out the visualization while chanting the Hannya Shingyō. See?? I knew you’d be the right person to ask!”Natsuki laughed weakly. “Ehehe…Glad I could, um, help, Oumae-chan…”It was only after she and her junior had parted ways later on that Natsuki had abruptly realized the enormity of the burden that she’d shouldered.“Oh CRAAAP…” Natsuki groaned as she pinched the bridge of her nose.In the face of Oumae-chan’s desperate entreaty, she’d completely forgotten that Asuka-senpai, Kaori-senpai and Yuuko herself had banded together to help bring an end to Kousaka-san’s silent suffering.Which meant that Natsuki had inadvertently pitted herself againt an unholy trinity by promising to support Oumae-chan in her efforts to preserve her girlfriend’s chastity.“WHAT HAVE I DONE??” Natsuki sobbed as she pounded her fist against a utility pole, oblivious to the stares of concern from the people passing by her on the street.“Okay. OKAY. You’ve got this,” she muttered as she slapped her cheeks to psyche herself up. “What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object??”Natsuki paused briefly as Asuka-senpai’s strategic brilliance, Kaori-senpai’s skillful restraint and her girlfriend’s sheer willpower came to mind—and promptly shuddered.“Who am I kidding??” she groaned out loud. “There is no object in the universe that wouldn’t yield to that force!!!”After several moments, Natsuki sighed. “Goddammit,” she muttered as Oumae-chan’s entreating face came to mind, “the things we do for love. It really is tough to be a eupho-mama.”And with that, Natsuki straightened her back and squared her shoulders. Come hell or high water, she wasn’t abandoning her junior in her time of need.
        Notes:
          I know. It's just been waaaaay too long. But I'm glad to be back. And if I'm back, it's really because of all of you readers out there who've continued to send me your kind notes of appreciation and support :'-) Just a few notes about some of the things referenced in this chapter: First, Brahmā Sahāmpati is said to be the senior deity who visited the Buddha after he attained enlightenment and encouraged him to teach the Dharma to humans. Second, the Hannya Shingyō (or Heart Sūtra in English) is the most frequently used and recited text in the entire Mahayana Buddhist tradition. Third, Jibo Kannon is the "Compassionate Mother Kannon" or the version of Kannon that became popular in Japan when suppressed Christians used the image to represent the Virgin Mary with Christ the Child.At any rate, I hope you're all doing reasonably well during these challenging times and I look forward to continuing our journey together!
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Rhapsody in E series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (88)
  Comments
          Tohrin07, bou0010, mochiplease, shizuma12, shoe_box, MightyWolf1029, Enarec, Katsuragi_Triss, HeliosRozen6, linkki, tuurtledove, Y07, gayheroine, Deanula, Slvr, LadyOfHresvelg, Mossheart810, Goober36, nocoolname3, CursedLily, loveprerecorded, lovebowserjr, gh0stlydreams, diva_tox, combinationlock, Saga_Darklight, eclaircie, Asteroid12, Soldierasholler, Johhn_Doe, SixRay, GangstaCrow, Interested_Party, archiemouse, nolongersmiles, DYWYPI, Tekketsu08, Bertfinkle, ethorns, pikgami, silentlyjudgingyou, MICROH2CO3, captainyousoro, Penguinfluffy12138, beatleian, Basingsaying, KirklandPurifiedWater, RoyalBard, amphetamines, TY_TK, 
               and 199 more users
            Lynt, Jojo_Ana, BlackLabyrinth07, DecrepitRoyalty, Nemrut, Cromalin20, TaiTomachek, CelticCrow17, RetroHeim, cheesymeg, VNVdarkangel, NeeineArts, Gabythenerd, w1svthibikeuphon, Darratato, Akio_Chan, WigolsHuion, boos_clues, StargazerXLIV, Nightsky203, Robin313, bxmbi_0, Firestar3271, Norwols, MimiTAT, Karmisa, snowrites, UrsaTempest, perseidspeak, fluffeupho, Lyds, ftx777x, misguiddghost, Delskitty3, kyasarin, Lucytop, CarpeTigris, keanuatron, super_nerd666, 42Gera42, XxChronOblivionxX, badwolfkaily, Zapcrictifier, Drebom, Aquamarineazure, TheGreyLoner, Imoshen88, Abyss007, Licht_Hraefn, aeveee, faintresonance, thunderblaze, cyberhobis, NicoMakis2, quirky_blue, njwdreamer, CuriousityIsKillingMe, milkymeats, ScratchMcGuffin, r00tless, Kassogtha, Nekomimi_Momo, booknerd4, PR_R, Pinkwonders, PJOHOORR, sometimeslifejustbelikethat, Aesix, deamrose10, ChatKills, kirindie, RomanTribune, koylis, roaringroa, CMendio0114, theamberissubtle, Religion0, antonyforcleopatra, Melonhead, ZeppelinInFlames, TctyaDDK, draugear, IHaveNoLife0607, Bael, pinqqou, wokeboke, Rorb_Lalorb, YuriKei, ToniDShipper, freyjaudur, creampuffs, Irish99, inventeredison2, Xsarras, venovark, puellamagikarp, rayca, yueisms, alua, Infinitum, happytohelp, Pseudonym_Quill, scribblers, ShoeJacket, MeasuredKindness, H1Corona213, Cynthia_Elph, desirulz123, Tiies, ISwearIJustLikeToRead, agayshark, IamGayandaSinner, rinage, wiplod, Freexhugsx, Crane_Ichabod, xLaShay, OTrizy, Vixtra, Melphis_Amekia, RedAxel, wayneducknewton, Animeuser, Rocshana, Shellsh0cker, SaboteurGG, Patthewalls, bodhisrook, Baxter54132, Cephlobellum, Mishacchi, NeniioN, SubZero, wn1miyamoto, ArtemisYuri, ForFucksSake22, middledumpling, UmbraOfTheDuende, dizz1337, togeprii, LuckyHarm, Deeep_sea, SophieAyase, Charlinne9876, OnesixBanana, walkingkettle, boda62, Xinora, lt_unicorn, RedSpades_and_BlackDiamonds, Buttgoblin, Sawsbuck21, karukaro, petrichor_sky, Vargenston, smokolog, sferwn, nbop, emotionalhuman, carrie4420, kkaengie, grawity, hakaze99, legsanddairy, daniyasu, yurianimeotaku, keianh, Walking_Round, nishmonkey, shireidesu, annieedison, raerita10, NopeZone, FezDisturbed, bigboybigby, vodkaattwoam, writeitonme, frozenmango, Okamitaretsu, zaa_woorld, ShootIsTheWay, SuaveSleuth, Bloke, Aoichan1719, hinootora, windfIowers, homunerd, Greenerin, Sparks52, Rose_of_the_Wind, vanished, Rinforzando, nozoomie, t_dactyl, niigoki, Vertumn, mistyheartrbs, an9e and thegadgetfish
             as well as 
          616 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
