      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Revelations
2. Heavy Sleeper
3. Trapped
4. Emergency Meeting
5. Extortion
6. Confrontation
7. Origins
8. Truth
9. Mistrust
10. Bonds
11. Disconnect
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               Gen
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationship:
               Midoriya Izuku &amp; Shigaraki Tomura | Shimura Tenko
              Characters:
               Midoriya IzukuShigaraki Tomura | Shimura TenkoBakugou KatsukiDabi (My Hero Academia)Toga HimikoSako Atsuhiro | Mr. CompressIguchi Shuuichi | SpinnerLeague of Villains (My Hero Academia)Midoriya InkoMidoriya HisashiSensei | All For OneYagi Toshinori | All Might
              Additional Tags:
               chapter 274 spoilersKidnappingSensei | All For One is Midoriya Hisashidad for oneboy I bet shiggy's knees hurt from all the jumping to conclusions he does hereMidoriya Izuku Has One for All QuirkMidoriya Izuku Has All for One Quirkor does he?Mention of accidental arsonNo beta I brought these typos into this world and I can take them outDabi is Todoroki TouyaEnemies to FriendsFamily FeelsFound FamilyPlatonic Cuddlingalso not spoiling anything but the dfo tag is here bc of what shigaraki ASSUMES is happeninghe may be correcthe may not ;)Forced Villain Midoriya Izukubut not reallyhe's not forced to do any evil as far as I've planned hes just made to live with themenemies to familyCanon-Typical ViolenceMention of Suicide BaitingOne-sided Midoriya Izuku/Toga HimikoCrack Treated SeriouslyTemporary AmnesiaMemory LossStabbing
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-06-11Updated:2020-10-03Words:56388Chapters:11/?Comments:958Kudos:1498Bookmarks:431Hits:27544
      Paradigm Shift
      WindySkyes
      Chapter 11: Disconnect
          Summary:
            Izuku makes a bold escape attempt.
        Notes:
          Hello all!I'm very excited to announce that from now on, Paradigm Shift will be beta'd by zinatina!! They are awesome and seriously helped make getting this chapter out SO much easier, tysm friend!! &lt;333They also made some more beautiful fanart for chapter 10, which can be found here. Go give them a reblog and a follow!https://zinatina.tumblr.com/post/630160947522289664/with-a-strange-pang-of-melancholy-deku-realizedThey also ALSO made a playlist on Spotify for this fic, found here:https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4JUmXP54whT3xoHfkEt6hK?si=FwMJNXpiRM25_jEBwfJxDgThank you, zina. You're awesome! :DPlease enjoy! c:
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Izuku’s heart pounded as he did a final check on all his supplies, the chorus of evening frogs and crickets outside barely audible over the dull roar of adrenaline in his ears. It was finally happening… he was finally making a break for it. The boy did his best to breathe evenly as he secured the wedge against his wrist and tried not to let his nerves get to him; the kind of anticipation he was feeling now made the second round of the Sports Festival feel about as nerve-wracking as a trip to the dentist. The boy hopped from foot to foot and flitted around his cell nervously, quadruple-checking his room for anything that could be left behind. With some careful rips and clever knotting, Izuku had crafted a small makeshift pack for himself, perfect for the set of supplies he’d decided to bring. He’d packed his notebook, his clock, as well as the tome that he’d recorded his more vital notes in; he was of course bringing his food sack and water cup as well, which he’d modified with a cannibalized book cover to create a makeshift canteen. Oh, it would have been dangerously noticeable, but maybe he could’ve made some sort of water filter between visits as well…? No, no… it was too late for that now. The map had come with a schedule of the guard rotations, and if he didn’t go now, he would have to wait another two hours before a good enough window of opportunity opened again. That was time he couldn’t afford to waste; every second he had to spare getting away from here was immeasurably precious. As the young hero finally hefted his makeshift knapsack and braced himself to open his prison cell door, one final thought occurred to him. Deku’s hand hovered in the air above the card reader, a clashing swirl of emotions filling him at the notion. Should he leave a note? Izuku frowned as he considered it; these people were villains. They had kept him here against his will, and even if he’d formed a strangely affectionate bond with some of them, it wasn’t exactly under the healthiest of circumstances. Even still, if he could retain just a  little bit of the trust he’d built up with them these past few weeks, it would probably help him pull Shigaraki out of his villainous ways further on down the road. He wasn’t so sure he could save the rest of the criminals directly, but if he could pull their leader out of the darkness, then some may be loyal enough to follow him to redemption. The green-haired teen debated with himself for a moment more, before finally caving and tearing a blank page from his notebook. Deku found himself struggling to find the words, however, and after feeling a few precious minutes slip through his fingers he finally scrapped the page entirely and began to scrawl anew with something brief but sincere. Perhaps, simple was best. A few moments later, it was done. Finally,  finally he was ready to go. Izuku squeezed the straps of his little rucksack anxiously and clutched the keycard in a quiveringly tight grip. The young man exhaled a tense breath as he braced himself to swipe, urging his mind to stay clear and calm. There was no going back after this; he was either going to escape, or lose his golden ticket home and wind up trapped here under tighter security than ever. The boy held his breath, steadying the hand poised above the card reader. Then, in one swift downwards motion, he swiped it down. It beeped a negative red. For two and a half seconds, Izuku’s heart stopped and frozen panic flooded his being. Then, he realized belatedly that he’d been holding the card the wrong way. “Oh, my god.” With an annoyed sigh at himself, he flipped it around and ran it through again,  correctly this time. The small light blinked green, and the lock clicked. The boy pushed the door open and hesitantly took his first free steps in almost a month.  Alright. Okay. Here we go…  He forced himself to keep his breathing even.  Stay calm, don’t lose your head. He just needed to head to the exit with the path he’d determined to be safest. If he could get out the gate without raising the alarm, he would probably be past the worst of it. Outside the facility, it would just be a race against time to get far enough away before his absence was noticed. But, he couldn’t rush yet. He couldn’t run, no matter how badly he wanted to. One foot in front of the other, slowly.  Slow and steady,  the teen mantra’d to himself as he walked.  Slow and steady…  Izuku picked his way painstakingly through the base for what felt like an eternity. Once, he spotted a pajama-clad Toga just as she disappeared down the opposite hall with a midnight snack in hand. Only a few turns later, he caught the sound of several sets of footsteps approaching, but managed to duck inside a blessedly unlocked doorway just in time. The further he went, the more certain he was that he’d be caught at any moment, that this was some kind of sick test of “loyalty” that the villains had cooked up for him, that he was making a huge mistake and should have just bided his time until a rescue team appeared. But then, when he pushed open one last door and found himself breathing in the crisp, near-forgotten taste of fresh air for the first time since his capture, he couldn’t help but feel it would be worth it anyways. The hero student navigated carefully across the grounds, hugging the walls and darting into cover at every chance he got. Finally, he spotted the outer wall just a few buildings away and began to follow it around to where he knew the gate out would be, heart thundering all the while. Holy crap, he might actually do this… he was so close! He turned one more corner, and… There. There it was. 
   The entrance gate. 
 It was being guarded by a set of drowsy-looking crooks who looked to be about ready to wrap up their shifts. He was just in time, then; even better, the huge sheets of metal which made up the doors were hanging slightly ajar, as if waiting for him. He was so close now, all Izuku had to do was slip by just as the guards made their switch, and he would be out… The boy clenched his fists as he wiped the beginnings of budding moisture from his eyes. He needed to focus; his tears could wait until he was safely home and back with his loved ones. His heart ached with longing at the thought, and a grim little smile graced his face.  Just a little longer until I can see everyone again. Mom, All Might, Kacchan, everyone... I   will make it.   With bated breath, he watched from the shadows a few buildings away as the minutes ticked by, and his heart leapt when a new shift came by to relieve the guards, just as the schedule on his map had said. No, actually… he checked his clock, and grinned with delight; the new shift was actually early!  They were all talking amongst themselves as they waited for their cohorts to clock out, not paying the gate any attention. Now, now was his chance! Pulse tight in his throat, the young hero made a break for it, clinging to the shadows of the building to his left. He walked briskly forward as casually and inconspicuously as he could so as to blend out in the open, closer and closer, he just had to make it past these last two buildings, now across this last stretch of open road and he would be free-!  Then, from around the final corner, a colossal form appeared. It was thrice his height and looked as though it had been hewn straight from a mountain. And it was staring straight at him. Izuku froze, suddenly as still as if he’d been made from stone himself. He knew this behemoth; he had been the one to bring the rest of the league to Shigaraki’s side when he’d been captured, the one to seal his fate. With mounting horror, he saw suspicion grow across the creature’s face. He needed to do something,  quick!  There was no way he could take this guy down and still get away, and if he maneuvered around the giant to bolt for the exit then the other would have more than enough time to raise the alarm and cut him off before he got very far. Then, all that was left was... Oh, boy. Deku waved cheerily and chirped, “H-hiya, big guy~!” Internally, he was wincing at the fumble in his greeting, but the creature-no,  Gigantomachia’s  shoulders drooped a little as his brow crumpled in confusion. “...Uh...?” “It’s me, Toga!” Izuku cheerfully and dishonestly clarified, bouncing in place and hoping wildly to every deity in existence that he was accurate to the girl’s mannerisms, “I was just on my way out for a midnight stroll! You mind if I squeeze past ya?” He felt sweat bead at his forehead; was he being too hasty here, trying to rush past? Would it be better to risk some small talk, or was he safer in having less time to give himself away? What would he do if the guards finished chatting to take their jobs seriously and close the gate before he could get out? The giant loomed over him in the darkness like a cryptid, before slowly lumbering closer, huffing and narrowing his eyes mistrustfully. “Why would you be using your quirk right now? You don’t  smell like bun-girl… what if you are actually the little prisoner trying to escape?” The boy batted his lashes and twirled a lock of hair between his fingers as he’d seen the other teen do frequently, hoping he looked cutesy and effeminate instead of tense as a steel bear trap. With a nervous giggle, he answered, “Oh, this? I like to turn into people I like just for fun, sometimes. Izu-kun is  really  cute, so I just, uh,  borrowed a blood sample from the doctor so I can see what his form feels like.” Thankfully, he didn’t have to fake the blush that typically spread across Toga’s face when talking about him with such embarrassing words coming out of his mouth. Izuku swallowed and fidgeted nervously with the front of his shirt as he built on the lie further, “It’s… It’s actually why I wanted to go into the woods in the first place, so I don’t get caught. I didn’t exactly ask for permission, see... Please, you won’t rat me out, will you? I’ll be in big trouble if they catch me, I was just  so curious~!” Izuku clasped his hands under his chin and put on his best pouty face and puppy eyes, lethal weapons he hadn’t pulled out since he was a small child begging his mother for yet another All Might action figure. The titan stared blankly down at him for a long, tense moment as Izuku barely dared to breathe, before rumbling, “You should just ask, next time.” Just as the tension was leaving the boy’s frame, he then asked sharply, “Except, why the food, then...?” His nostrils were flaring, and Izuku realized he could smell his rations. Deku ducked his head and chuckled quietly to hide his widening eyes and expression of panic, giggling for a moment too long as he bought time for himself to think this one out. “W-Why, because I wanted to make a picnic out of this trip, of course~! I, um, used some spare materials to make this bag myself, actually. Do you like it?” He was babbling, he shouldn’t have brought any attention to his obviously improvised rucksack, he needed to shut up before he ruined this-! “U-uh, yeah, it looks nice. Good job,” The giant stuttered with a surprised blink. There was a strange glint in his eye, and it took the boy a moment to realize it was pity; the other was clearly lying to be polite. Deku nodded and faked a pleased grin as he pushed down the bizarre pang of offense at the implication that his bag made from cannibalized pillows wasn’t fashionable. “Do girls like that? Handmade bags?” Gigantomachia suddenly whispered as he bent towards the imposter, rapt and attentive. “Yes! Of course! We all like bags.” Izuku blurted out in befuddlement, truly having not even the faintest idea. A dreamy look overtook the giant’s face, and he murmured something that sounded like, “Maybe I should try that…” to himself. “Well,” the boy said, finally seeing a chance to duck out of the conversation, “I should get going before it gets too late.” “Yeah,” Gigantomachia replied as he squatted down to be nearly on Izuku’s level, “You probably should. You’re going to that nice little meadow with the mossy benches and the little brook running through it, right?” “Right.” Izuku chirped with a smile that he hoped wasn’t too strained. “I’ll see you later then.” The colossus nodded, then curled up almost completely and craned his head downwards so his face was level with the runaway hostage’s. Izuku blinked and stared blankly at him, then the giant tilted his head to the side and offered him his cheek expectantly. Oh. Flustered, Izuku laid a hand on one of his massive fangs and pressed a quick peck to Gigantomachia’s cheek. The giant let out a pleased hum, before standing fully and pulling away.  Deku’s face flushed with embarrassment as he turned his face away so the giant hopefully wouldn’t see it. Thankfully, the giant had already stood back to his full height, and actually gave a little “all clear!” wave up to the guards above the door. They nodded in response and obligingly opened the gate wider for him.  “Thanks,” Izuku said, meaning it. Gigantomachia gave him a soft smile and gently replied, “Of course. Goodnight, Bun-girl.” “Goodnight, Gigantomachia.”  Just like that, Izuku continued forward and headed for the gate as one of the most powerful forces in the villain’s arsenal lumbered off into the night. Breathless with disbelief and dumbfounded at his luck, he felt his pace increase as he walked briskly to the gate. Walk, don't run. Walk, don’t run. Walk, don’t-. He was out. The military-grade steel gates passed him on either side as he strode briskly but casually out of the base, and for what felt like the first time in years the world opened up to him, wide and endless. A giddy lightness filled him as he deeply breathed in the fresh forest air, and when he was finally out of sight of the base he turned off the path and started to jog into the dark underbrush, unable to hold in the bubble of giddy laughter rising in his chest any longer. He couldn’t believe it, he had made it! He was out!  Izuku hiccuped and wiped his eyes as he slowed to a walking pace safely out of sight of the road, small deliriously joyful chuckles still escaping him as he started to collect himself. Right, this was going wonderfully so far, better than he ever could have hoped, but he still wasn’t out of the woods yet. Literally. Currently, it was already fully dark out, and he hadn’t had the luxury of running across a flashlight on his way out. The lights from the military complex-turned villain hideout were already fading, and unless he stayed within sight of the road he would likely become hopelessly lost. He could climb a tree to see if he could spot signs of civilization, but then he could just as easily be noticed by a perceptive enough villain patrol as well… Izuku looked up to the dazzling night sky as he muttered to himself, twinkling with more stars than he could ever hope to count. For a moment, his breath was taken away by their beauty, before he frowned as he realized what it meant; he must be very far from any big settlements, if there was almost no light pollution obscuring the night sky. He blinked as a powerline cut the star-splashed sky in two and stopped walking for a moment, following it with his eyes. The cable led from the pole it was attached to off to the villain base, and down along the road the other way. A hopeful smile lit his face; if he could just follow the power line back, he would surely reach the source, and by extension other people, eventually! What little survival training they’d had always recommended against traveling at night, but there was nothing for it; he had to put some distance between himself and his kidnappers as quickly as possible. Deku would just have to move carefully until sunrise, then he could travel at as quick a pace he wanted. Izuku nodded to himself, squeezed the straps of his pack eagerly, and began picking his way carefully through the shrubbery. -------- Toga yawned and stretched lazily, gazing up at the rosy pink predawn sky and relishing the sleepy quiet of her morning walk. She normally wasn’t up at the crack of dawn like this, but she had so been looking forward to visiting her adorable Izu-kun again, that she had decided to just go straight to sleep after her midnight pantry raid. This would be the second time she’s done this; her last visit had been so much fun, she couldn’t wait to surprise him again! Himiko was so glad they’d grabbed Izuku. Spending time with him had been helping her greatly with getting over her dear friend’s death. In fact, she was already feeling comfortable enough to speak with him in detail about Jin and the special bond they’d shared. Maybe right after this walk, she would go bring her little jailbird a nice breakfast surprise so the tragic subject she wanted to bring up wouldn’t completely kill her pleasant mood. Maybe some fruit, this time... She was sure he wouldn’t mind waking up a little early to spend some time with her! Toga giggled and hurried on with a skip in her step. Just before she reached the main compound where the kitchens were located, she spotted one of her taller friends having an outdoor breakfast not far from her. It was Gigantomachia! “Good morning!” She chirped, skipping up to him and swiping one of the many apples he was munching on. “How was your patrol?” “Good morning. Was okay.” He rumbled in return. Then he asked, “How was your picnic last night?” The girl paused mid-chomp, giving him a confused look. “Uh, what picnic?” “The one you took real late last night, while transformed to look like the prisoner.” Toga choked as she dropped her stolen apple, breakfast forgotten. ————— Izuku finally crested the steep hill he’d been climbing, pausing to lean against a tree and reward himself with another sip of water and a long, appreciative glance at the view. A vast, green valley spread out below him, blanketed with a lush array of trees that looked almost cushion-like from up here. A sky blue ribbon of river and lake cut through it at the bottom, and a small aging dam sat nestled between the lake and the river. Izuku’s smile slowly dropped from his face as he realized what was missing: there were no signs of civilization beyond the tiny dam. The power lines he had been following throughout the night lead straight down to it, and it was the only structure around. That meant it was probably an independent hydroelectric station that was supplying the base with power; a smart move, on Shigaraki’s part, since it let him stay off the grid, but terrible for anyone looking to track the villains. Or escape them. Izuku shaded his eyes and squinted out as far as he could see, searching nervously for any little clumps of buildings or signs of people, but came up with nothing. There was nobody else for as far as his eyes could see. The boy swallowed around the lump forming in his throat; just how far out had they taken him?! Deku’s gaze returned to the body of water far below him as he slid down the trunk to rest by the roots, pulling a snack out of his pack as he thought. Well… he had a few options to consider here. He could follow the river upstream and to his left, going around the edge of the lake; settlements tended to stay close to bodies of freshwater like this, so if he was lucky Izuku would eventually encounter a town or city of some sort before any pursuers could catch up to him. That side of the river seemed to hook back towards where the villain hideout was as it ran further upstream, however, so this option was less than ideal. Deku could follow the river downstream, where it led away from the base; he was far more likely to find other people who would help him this way than if he went upstream. However, from what he could see from where he was sitting now, the river ran for quite a while off into the distance. Even if he pushed himself hard, Izuku doubted he would get any further than the nature-blanketed horizon by nightfall.  By that time, his absence would have definitely been noted, assuming he wasn’t unlucky enough for that to already be the case, and he would easily be tracked as they followed this most obvious path home. He would then have to deal with his pursuers alone deep in the woods, outmanned, outgunned, presumably low on food and water, and exhausted from trekking. Even as his best chance for finding others and getting home, this path was a very risky endeavor all on its own. He could wander into the woods, leaving the rivers outright and hoping he ran into a town along the way, but this option was probably the riskiest of all. It gave him the best chance to lose his pursuers, sure, but… he wasn’t exactly outfitted for an extended camping trip in the sprawling wilds of Japan. He barely had enough food for a few days, if he stretched it, he had no gear to start a fire or build a shelter. He couldn’t even do much of anything about clean water once his canteen ran out! No, this was unacceptable as well. But then… there was the dam. The green-haired boy’s eyes wandered to the offending building thoughtfully. If he went to the dam instead of ignoring it to follow the river, then Izuku would very possibly be spotted… but, there was a unique opportunity here as well. This plan was risky,  very risky, but if he could sneak in, disable the dam without getting caught, and get out without being spotted, then he could create a serious diversion as the villains scrambled to fix their power source. Hopefully, the ensuing chaos would provide enough of a distraction for him to escape downstream and reach a settlement in time. If he was destructive enough, he might cripple the villains for weeks, possibly even months as they repaired the damage or relocated to another base. That would help him immensely in the event that he was caught and in need of a second escape!  Yes, this could work. This was the right plan to take! He stretched his already somewhat sore muscles and gave his face a few firm slaps to wake himself up. This might be his last real obstacle… it was time to escape, once and for all! ----------- Tomura groaned as he slowly swam back to consciousness, feeling groggy and sick. He had been woken by something loud and grating that he couldn’t quite make out yet. What was...? “-didn’t know to tell us until now, and-and now, we’re checking  everywhere- ” He blinked his crusty eyes open slowly, and gradually realized that someone was in his room, speaking to him as if he was coherent enough to understand them or respond.  Several someones, actually. He finally managed to creak an eye open and immediately snapped it shut with a mild wince at the bright lights of the infirmary that greeted him. Clearly, the anesthetic had yet to fully wear off; whatever his henchmen were waking him for, it had better be damn important. The base had better be on fire, or swarming with heroes intent on killing him again. Or both. With another louder, more irritated groan the man sat up, scrubbing the sand from his eyes and forcing himself to focus. “Wait, stop, start over. I didn’t get any of that. What’s happened?” Shigaraki opened his eyes again, slowly this time, and was greeted by the sight of a blubbering Toga and extremely irate Dabi. A cold lump settled in his stomach. Somehow, just by the look on their faces, he knew. Cold fury gripped Shigaraki like a vice. His hands clenched the sheets in a white-knuckled grip, and a deadly stillness settled over him. He sat up straight and calmly addressed his underlings, “...He’s out, isn’t he?” ------ It was midmorning by the time Izuku arrived at the hydroelectricity plant. The facility that had seemed so tiny up on the knoll was intimidatingly huge this close up. There were a few villains milling about along the crest, but not as many as he’d expected to be standing guard; the rest must be inside. That, or they were running on a skeleton crew, if he was lucky. From here, he could see a small control tower rising above the opposite end of the dam; it was probably where the hardware for controlling the gates was housed. Even better, it had windows on all sides; perfect for a quick getaway into the woods far below, provided he was careful about the fall. Still, Izuku couldn’t afford to underestimate his target here. He had to pull this off. Even if Shigaraki may forgive him for destroying their power supply on the grounds of their supposed “family relations”, his cronies certainly would not. If one was feeling particularly mutinous, or if a new associate decided to take matters into their own hands... It was do or die, now. He breathed in slowly to steady himself, held it in, and took the plunge. Deku leaped from the cover of the underbrush and darted up the stairs to the entrance of the facility, hopping the vine-strangled fence along the way. Blessedly, the backdoor was unlocked, and Izuku quietly slipped inside. The boy padded carefully around as he searched for the stairs up to the edge of the main wall, peeking around corners and straining to hear any approaching footsteps over the deafening roar of the rushing waters. He finally found what he was looking for after a few close calls with some goons patrolling the halls, and his heart lightened considerably as he stepped out to see he was up on the crest, the reservoir to his left, and the river far below to his right. There were no villains in sight up here, at the moment. This area was dangerously open regardless, but if he was quick he might just make it across without being spotted. From there, he would be a simple One For All-powered hop, skip, and jump away from reaching his target, and then he could escape the dam unnoticed and be on his merry way home within the next fifteen minutes or so. Deku had barely taken a few steps forward when the aging intercoms blared to life and froze him in his tracks. “Hello,  Izuku. We know you’re there at our hydroelectric plant, just wanted to let you know this was a stupid plan and we’re already on our way to pick you up. Hope you enjoyed your little ‘picnic’ while it lasted,  brat .” Shigaraki’s tranquilly furious voice spat bitterly from the rusted speakers above him.  He didn’t think. Izuku blindly bolted out into the open and across the walkway, desperate to reach the control tower and smash it to pieces before his pursuers arrived. He didn’t have much time, but if he could just get close enough for a powered-up leap to- He didn’t even make it halfway across. The entire dam shook with the force that Shigaraki and the cohorts he was carrying slammed into it, a great plume of dust blossoming up upon impact right where he’d just been standing mere moments before. Izuku spun and lost his footing, stumbling as he scrambled back and away just in time to dodge a swipe from Shigaraki. Thinking quickly, he aimed a kick towards the villain’s outstretched hand and sent him skidding back with a low snarl. The boy tried to retreat to the doorway behind him for cover, but Spinner emerged from the dust to flip over him and blocked his path. Izuku skidded to a stop and whirled to face Shigaraki again at the high whistle of an oncoming attack, throwing a blast of air pressure behind himself and hoping it stopped Spinner from getting too close. He whacked away the incoming black tendrils with a sharp crack of his own, only for Spinner to leap over his suppressing fire and onto his back in an attempt to shove a huge, unfamiliar scimitar to his throat. Izuku gritted his teeth past a surprised hiss as he did his best to keep the curved blade away from his throat, staggering slightly at the sudden weight. Dabi lunged through the dust cloud straight at him, and Izuku shot a hand back over his shoulder to rip Spinner from his back and slam him into his flame-wielding comrade before he could get too close. Sharp, sudden pain tore a shout from Deku’s throat, and he turned to find a tearfully furious Toga had flanked him to sink a knife deep into his thigh. “How could you? We were really  building  something together, now you’ve gone and ruined it!” She cried, and Izuku hesitated at the genuine pain in her eyes and voice for just a split second, half a split second too long. He kicked her away with the dagger still stuck in him and left himself open and off-balance as the smaller form of the giant he’d met earlier barreled into him and held the boy to the ground. “You lied, Little Prisoner tricked me!!” The giant roared, sounding both furious and mortified. The clacking of hurried dress shoes against concrete followed, and Izuku heard Shigaraki bark out, “Compress, marble him while he’s down!” Ice-cold terror warred with the white-hot fury shooting through Deku’s veins; he wasn’t going to be caught so easily, not this time! Pushing the limits of how much of his quirk he could safely use, the hero-in-training slammed both feet into Gigantomachia’s abdomen with enough force to make his shin bones creak dangerously, sending the stony behemoth sailing off of him and into the lake below. A great spray of water shot up and showered everyone at the splash that followed, going collectively ignored as Izuku rolled to dodge a blast of heat from Dabi and leapt into the air to avoid a swipe from Spinner’s massive new sword. Now it was Compress flying towards him, and with a pained groan Izuku quickly wrenched the dagger from his thigh and hurled it at the villain, narrowly avoiding being marbled as the man captured the dagger instead. Compress clicked his tongue in annoyance, and a spray of blood promptly left his mouth as he bit his tongue when Izuku’s kick connected hard enough to send the dapper criminal flying back. As gravity dragged him down towards the villains again, the boy scanned the battlefield frantically. Where, where was-? “No more games. You’re coming back home with us, Izuku.  Now .” Behind him…! Before the young hero could react, Shigaraki’s steel-strong arms were around him, and he was being yanked high, high into the air. “N-no!” Izuku cried, struggling and thrashing frantically against the other’s grip, his arms trapped against his sides in a bear hug. He tried to free himself using One For All, but found it to be absent. The wedge, it must have slipped! However, when he brought his wrist up to his face to adjust it, the boy found that it was still perfectly in place. The light still flashed red, indicating that it wasn’t operational. But then, how…? Deku craned his head upwards, meeting Shigaraki’s furious, unnaturally bright red gaze glaring right back down at him. He knew that glow. Izuku’s stomach plummeted in abject horror.  Erasure. Shigaraki has   Erasure. 
   But then, that would mean he…he..! 
 “Y-you! You  took-  !” The boy choked out, barely able to speak over his grief and rage as well as the human vice crushing his back to Shigaraki’s chest. Was Aizawa-sensei even still alive? All this time, had he been bonding and spending time with his teacher’s murderer?  “Yeah, I took Eraserhead’s quirk. That means you’re not getting away from me again, so quit resisting!” Shigaraki snapped in his ear, squeezing him tighter still. His words only made Izuku struggle harder, unhinged fury twisting his face. Izuku curled forward into a tight ball, then brought his head back to crack against Shigaraki’s nose as hard as he could. Between being depowered and the villain’s monstrous regenerative abilities, Deku barely did enough damage to cause a momentary nosebleed. The force of the headbutt was enough to make the other grunt in surprise more than pain, and green curls flew into Shigaraki’s eyes and forced the villain to reflexively shut them, if only for a moment. A moment was all the captive teenager needed. Izuku tore out of Shigaraki’s hold and kicked off of him like a platform, using the man’s body to propel himself back down to the dam. The other’s shout of protest quickly receded, and the wind was deafening as it screamed past his ears and made his eyes water at the speed of his descent. He shot past the other villains on the deck instead of attacking them or going for the tower, and instead twisted in midair to face the curved reservoir wall now looming in front of him.  With so many pursuers and the added element of Erasure, the chase was effectively over; Shigaraki was right. There was no real hope of getting away now. Still, with what little time he had left with his freedom, Deku was determined to make a difference. If he could disrupt the villain’s operations even just for a little bit by taking out their source of power, then so be it. As a hero, Izuku had to try. He had gotten so far with this attempt, he couldn’t let it all be for nothing! The wild-eyed teen tightened his hand into a fist and brought it back, bracing himself for the agony of breaking himself at 100% again. The familiar power shrieked through him like a locomotive, and the boy slammed his fist into the solid concrete with all his strength. An underwhelming ‘thunk’ jolted uncomfortably up through his arm, and the dam remained serenely intact and unmoved. Nothing had happened. From above, an already-recovered Shigaraki was swooping down on him like a buzzard, his face stone-like and resolute. Izuku tried to buy himself more time by groping into his pack and hurling the first thing his fingers touched, the book holding his ciphered information, up at his assailant. The man simply caught and dusted it without batting an eye, and snatched him up once again. This time, he held the boy side-on so there would be no more headbutting. Izuku thrashed and screamed with despair and frustration, absolutely furious with himself for his failure. Just a moment more, and he could have done it! The atmosphere shifted. Suddenly a hand, Shigaraki’s good hand, clamped over his face with a bruising grip, and the teen felt an unfamiliar... pulling sensation, a sense of vertigo, as though gravity had somehow shifted towards the spidery appendage on his face. Shigaraki’s fingers hummed with a bizarre energy that left static-like tingles where they were pressed, and he felt somehow incredibly invaded. Everything went cold as Deku realized what he was feeling, what Shigaraki was doing, and felt himself going limp against his will. He dug his nails numbly into the arm crushing him sideways against the villain’s chest as he choked out, “Y-you… You promised you wouldn’t-” Just as suddenly, sheer wrath surged back in to replace the horror, and Deku felt his face twist into something ugly. “How dare you try to take it?!” “How dare I? How dare I?!” Shigaraki shrieked around a hysterical bark of laughter. “You’re trying to abandon us, abandon me, your family, so that you can run off to be with All Might again. And for what, just to save some complete strangers, and go back to being our enemy? Just to forget everything that’s happened here and go back to ruining our dreams?! How much more traitorous than that can you get? You’re just like her, just like Nana! Just like the one who made him treat me like that!” Shigaraki roared, sounding absolutely mad. There was a high, wild edge to his voice, something that made it sound like hysteria was more in control than Shigaraki was, and Izuku wheezed out a soft yelp of pain as the arm around his torso tightened to a painful degree. “Give it to me, give me One For All. I need it, I need it!” He couldn’t breathe, nails were digging into his forehead and cheeks hard enough to pierce the skin as his ribs creaked dangerously in Shigaraki’s hold. His blind rage was snuffed out by the numb realization that he may actually die here if Shigaraki didn’t regain control of himself, and he couldn’t move, couldn’t  breathe- “T-Tomura-!”  Shigaraki released him as suddenly as if he’d been burned, eyes wide with a disoriented horror. Izuku cried out as he suddenly found himself falling down, down, down, all the way to the base of the dam. This was just like the tryouts for UA, except he wouldn’t even have the chance to save himself because of Erasure but he had to  try, he had to right himself, aim downwards, and-! With a well-aimed punch at the ground, Izuku managed to miraculously get out a safe gust of air from One For All to break his fall. He tumbled to a messy stop among the pebbles of the shoreline, thankfully unhurt save a few scratches. Shigaraki touched down not far from him as the boy struggled to his feet, and the two stared frozen at each other for what felt like hours, tension buzzing in the air like a coiled snake ready to strike. Shigaraki’s face wasn’t cleared of whatever had possessed him earlier, and he seemed to be visibly warring with himself. The villain opened his mouth as if to say something before closing it again, looking away with an agonized glint in his eyes. “...Go, Izuku.” He choked out suddenly, as if forcing himself to speak. Izuku’s eyes widened with disbelief. “Wh-What?” The boy whispered, certain that he’d misheard somehow. Shigaraki shook his head drunkenly and stumbled away from the teenager, keeping his eyes firmly on the ground. “I’ve just realized how bad- I mean, I can’t really…” The villain trailed off with a sigh as a hand came up to clutch at his head, then tried again, “I’m sorry, but I don’t think… you’re safe here with us anymore. With  me  .” Shigaraki shifted, his posture tense as if he was holding himself back as he continued, “There’s something wrong with me. I suddenly… I just can’t control myself…” Concern flared in the boy’s chest, despite everything. Izuku made as if to reach out, but the man flinched away. Had he not meant to try and take-? The boy’s eyes widened. The surgery. “I’ll fix this one day,” The man who could be his cousin continued before Izuku could get any words out. “Until then…” Two steps closer. “Sh-Shigaraki, wait-“ “Give your mother my regards.” The villain’s hand shot out at him with the glow of an unfamiliar quirk nestled in his palm, and then everything went white. --------- Izuku wandered dazedly along the banks, following the river downstream. He couldn’t quite remember why he was doing this, where he was coming from, or where he was going, but somehow he knew it was important that he go this way. He was… going somewhere? Getting away from something? Why was he here? Where was everyone else…? The last thing he could remember was being told that he and his classmates were going to someplace called Jakku for some kind of mission. Had… had something gone wrong…? He’d thought Jakku General Hospital was around more city than forest, and he couldn’t access his GPS to check because his phone didn’t seem to be on him. Stranger still, there was an odd band on his wrist that he couldn’t seem to pry off on his own. Was this some kind of support gear that was relevant to the assignment? It didn’t seem to be doing anything, had he broken it...? Well, whatever misfortune had befallen him, he wasn’t out of the woods yet. Literally. Deku wasn’t entirely sure what had happened to him, but he was certain that it had been something bad; he had a stab wound in one thigh, and some strange cuts and bruises on his face. His ribs were bruised, his body ached in the same way it did when he overdid it with One For All, and the clothes he was wearing were unfamiliar, scruffy, and anonymous, nothing like the stuff he’d usually wear. He was carrying a pack that looked like it had been hastily made out of torn linens of some kind that held an assortment of different foods, none of which seemed suitable for a hike through the woods. Somehow, it felt too light, as though he’d forgotten something. Izuku tried to analyze the situation further, but found he was having a great deal of difficulty thinking straight. His mind was sluggish and hazy, and he distantly recognized that he must have been hit with some kind of disorientation or memory-wipe quirk. The boy wandered alongside the river for hours, until the sun had set, disappeared for the night, and risen again. He was exhausted, but knew he had to keep going; if he ran out of food or got caught in a bad enough storm out here, he wouldn’t have anyone or anything to depend on. And worse, he didn’t have the supplies to properly treat the wound in his leg; it seemed to have been patched up with a crude shred of cloth, but if it got infected and he became too sick to move, then his chances of survival would be slim to none.  Though, he couldn’t help but note that the makeshift bandage hadn’t come from him; his clothes were more or less intact, and it didn't match any of the materials from his homemade rucksack. Meaning that, most likely, someone else had to have patched him up. Why had they left him, then? Why was he out here all alone, hurt and amnestic? Finally, just as the unusual mix-mash of food in his strangely cobbled-together pack ran dry sometime in the late afternoon, Izuku came across a small settlement. By now, he was filthy, weak, exhausted, and very,  very thirsty. (He hadn’t dared to quench his thirst with the water from the stream; severe brain fog or no, he knew better than to drink from an unfiltered source, even one that appeared as clean as this one.) As he got into the town proper, Deku came across small gaggles of people. Delirious hope filled him; finally, he could get some help and figure out what was going on! This whole fiasco was almost over. Some of the townsfolk stopped and stared at him as he approached, though most scurried away before he could even get any words out, avoiding eye-contact and clutching their children close. “P-please… Please help! Please help me!” The young teen croaked out in a parched voice, hoarse and whispery from disuse and dehydration. “I’m hurt, can someone please call a hero or an ambulance for me? I need the authorities!” His weak, raspy voice wasn’t carrying very far, however, and with his appearance being what it was it took awhile for him to snag someone long enough to call in some first responders. Something tickled the back of his mind unpleasantly at this. Why did so many people ignore him and continue walking when he so clearly needed help? Izuku was rushed to the hospital shortly after soliciting the kind stranger for help, where he swiftly received the intensive medical attention he’d so desperately needed. Once he’d been patched up, given an IV drip to replenish his fluids, gotten the strange device on his wrist removed, and been given the all-clear for visitors a few hours later, a pair of detectives came in to interview him. They apologized for the inconvenience while he was clearly so exhausted, but asked if he’d be up to answering some questions anyways. As badly as he wanted to shoo them away and sink into sweet oblivion, Izuku consented; he needed to know what was going on and if everyone else was okay, and his best bet for that would be to work with the detectives. Some things were a little clearer, now that he was somewhat recovered; he had been stuck somewhere, stuck with someone else? With other people? He had been fed and cleaned and clothed, but he hadn’t wanted to be there at all. Try as he might, however, his memory was still mostly indecipherable. It wasn’t until one of the officers got a call and informed him that he was filed as a missing person, one Izuku Midoriya, that things began to come flooding back in chunks and pieces. He was at Jakku helping with evacuations when something terrible had happened, absolute destruction sweeping across the city. He had run into Shigaraki and been snatched up, dragged on board a helicopter and taken away. Waking up, days and days of an uncomfortably leisurely captivity as they tried to turn him to villainy, intense conversations, budding connections- Family. Shigaraki had insisted they were family. But, was it safe to tell the detectives that? Izuku knew it would probably be wisest to tell them everything, but what would the repercussions of such a dangerous implication mean? For himself? For his dream? For his mother?  They were interrupted by the sound of two sets of rapidly approaching footsteps, one heavy and one strikingly familiar, and for a moment adrenaline shot through the teen as he feared it was one of the villains, showing up to take him away again, or to wake him from what must be the wonderful dream he was having. Then, he heard a frantic voice pleading with his doctor, and every panicked, rabbity thought fluttering around his head evaporated into nothing. “Please, I know they’re not done, but I need to see my son-! ” His head shot up off the pillow he’d been resting against; he knew that voice. He’d just spent weeks fearing he’d never hear it again. “Mom…?” Izuku called hoarsely, voice small and childlike. One of the detectives exchanged a small, knowing smile with his partner and warmly said, “We’ll pick this back up sometime later, Midoriya-kun. It’s good to have you back,” He patted the teen’s knee and stood to leave just as his mother burst through the door, looking haggard and tearful and so,  so relieved. “Mom?! MOM!!” Izuku cried, seizing up at the sheer emotion flooding through him. “ Izuku!!  ” The woman wailed as she sprinted into the room; the injured boy tried to get out of bed to embrace his mother, but was too slow as she flung herself across the room to engulf him in the most crushing hug she’d ever given him. “Izuku! My baby, I was  so  w-worried!” She sobbed as she peppered his face with kisses and swiped at his eyes and her own, and Izuku belatedly realized he was crying just as hard as she was. “M-Mom it’s okay, I’m okay! I made it, I’m safe! I’m back, I’m back!  ” He babbled incoherently into the soft cotton-clad shoulder he was clutching at, hiccups and sobs of his own pouring out of their own accord all the while. In all honesty, he was reassuring himself as much as he was her; it was only just now hitting him that this was all real, that he’d escaped. Her familiar scent filled Izuku’s nose, and he buried his face into her pink cardigan like a small child. “They- they didn’t follow me! I made it out okay, don’t cry, Mom.” “Oh, Izuku,” She cooed shakily, overcome, “It’s me who should be telling you that! You’re safe, baby, you’re safe. I’m here now. I’m here...” His mother rocked him gently from side to side, and Izuku felt all the tension and anxiety and dread he’d been holding in these past few weeks melt out of him like snow on a warm day. He was out, he was safe, and his mother was holding him tightly in her arms. As the reality of her words hit him, what was left of his defenses finally crumbled and he allowed himself to slump bonelessly against her and weep. He’d actually done it, somehow.  Izuku Midoriya was  free . ---------- “What the hell was that?” Dabi muttered darkly after they’d landed at the base and begun their walk back to the main compound. Nothing explicit had been said, but from their unhurried pace, the order was clear: their little prisoner was being set loose, for seemingly no reason at all. “Yeah, Tomura-kun! What are you doing?! We need to go back for him! Izu-kun’s gonna get  away, at this rate!” Toga cried, still sniffling with tears that had gone from enraged to mournful. Their leader let out a long, exhausted-sounded sigh. “Inform the others that they are not to go after Deku. He’s free to go.” “But  why-?!”  Toga began to wail in protest, but couldn’t even get the rest of her question out before Tomura hurried away, wanting to be alone. Back in his room, the man collapsed onto his bed and held his head in his shaking hands, the awful memories of what had just happened, what he had almost just allowed to happen, running through his head again and again. 
   That little shit. 
  He had somehow chosen to sneak out while Shigaraki had been in surgery, his timing impeccable. Thankfully, the doctor’s protectiveness of his more hard-to-come-by equipment had worked in their favor, as the boy was just in range enough to give them a signal. Just barely. 
   He had been feeling...off, since he’d woken up, but had favored retrieving his precious baby brother over pondering his post-surgery haze. 
   This would prove to be a near-fatal mistake. 
  Not wasting any time, Shigaraki grabbed those he felt were most suitable within arm’s reach and bounded straight to the dam, making sure the little runaway knew exactly what he was in for over the radio just before they touched down.  
   The kid put up an admirable fight for how outnumbered he was, he really did. A part of Tomura thrilled at how quick and clever he was in such a tight situation, surely something he’d picked up from his father. If he hadn’t been so angry, he almost even could’ve called it fun! 
   Still, their little game of cat and mouse had to come to an end eventually. When the opening presented itself, Shigaraki hauled the boy high into the sky with the intent of giving him a brief but stern talking to before restraining the kid and bringing him back home. Perhaps if he still struggled, he’d even establish a punishment right there on the spot. 
  Aside from the maximum-security cell and a few weeks of isolation to make him receptive to their conversations again, of course. No more books, no more journal, certainly no more spare pillowcases… clearly, he had been too lenient too quickly. Those were all things Izuku should have had to earn,  just as he had.  
   Those would just be the beginning, of course; he had been planning on thinking of more when the kid was safely back with them where he belonged. 
   That...wasn’t what occurred, however.  
  As Shigaraki snatched Izuku up for the second time after his close call with destroying their sole source of power, that muted hunger that he’d worked so hard to repress and control these past two and a half weeks suddenly came roaring up out of him like an eruption. It was like a starved beast, and Izuku’s forcefully aborted attempt to destroy the dam had been the promise of a feast. Distantly, Tomura felt himself wrench at that quirk he’d wanted so badly, and felt the boy go frighteningly limp in return. 
   This wasn’t supposed to happen. These urges were supposed to go away after the surgery, not… not get 
  worse…! 
  Then Izuku had gone and had the gall to act betrayed, after everything that he’d just pulled, and Shigaraki’s building hysteria had jumped straight to pure fury. He lost himself again, and didn’t come back until the boy was writhing and choking out a plea for mercy in his arms. As he dropped Izuku through an ocean of horror, Tomura knew things may never be the same for them again after this. The trust he’d worked so hard to build with the boy would be permanently damaged, after an attack like that.  
   Tomura desperately wanted to apologize, to take back what he’d just done so they could go back to the way things were before, but realized with a rush of horror that a second wave of that overwhelming 
  need 
  was overtaking him. In that moment, he knew he had a decision to make, one that should have been as difficult as it was painful. 
   In the end, it hadn’t even been much of a choice at all. 
 --- Ultimately, his options had been to let Midoriya go, or walk on eggshells as he lived with the risk that he’d snap and accidentally kill him one day. Or worse. He couldn’t risk killing his family by his own hand, he was  NEVER going to allow that to happen again, no matter what. And yet, in saving him, Tomura had lost his little brother to the heroes all over again. He hoped Izuku would understand, somehow; maybe someday, he would return to them willingly… Or maybe, he would just put all of this out of his mind and try to beat them into the dirt the next time he saw them. With a soft groan of misery, the man got up and trudged to the doctor’s quarters, deciding to just request some sedatives and sleep off the lingering effects of the surgery as well as the bad taste this had all left in his mouth. He could deal with this tangled mess of emotions later. Shigaraki paused by the printer in the lab connected to the doctor’s suite, seeing a single sheet of paper sitting innocently in the tray. Positive. They truly were cousins, after all. With a morose sigh, he wordlessly crumpled it up and threw it in the trash.
        Notes:
          Before anything else, I'd like to clarify something: this isn't the last chapter, nor is the chapter after. There's still quite a bit of story here, we're just switching gears. c:In addition!For the month of October, Paradigm Shift will be on hiatus. Instead, I will be focusing on getting as many whumptober prompts and oneshots in general out as I can! I've never participated in one of these, so I'm excited to hop in! :yComments and Kudos are appreciated. I hope you all have a wonderful Halloween month! ^w^
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (43)
  Comments
          Marsalias, coffiishop, Miss_Moss, Divine_Rogziel, Sugarrsprout, cheese_slipper, NovelKitten, usuario, Villan_with_a_god_complex, sprooch, goldened, BittyCity, EscapismFOOH, weedsnail, B_O_M_B, nessa11997, AllISeeAreKingsAndThieves, cheshire_carroll, heh_squad, Lumae, ObakeKymmy, strawberripuppi, keikia, Biderman666, Zelando555, V01dC1ph3r, Annab23, AulFaurOuanne, ShadowKat06, Pineapple_Yoi, Sam41999, Purplecoconutsmine, Spaceraptor, Old_Rin, Unknown_20045, Katella, EvertheEnigma, KoraCorvus709, Cressele, forgottenwhispers, LesbianDragon, SmallMight21, Liankitty, FakeStars, Mum_Said_Its_My_Turn_On_The_Braincell, BronzeKing, Thundrfox, demonturtle, sozill, sleepy_sadist, 
               and 814 more users
            Silver_Shadow360, Protagonist_Scum, Frickingedgy, VoidBrat, mrjengablock, Pyrite_Alchemist, zorro99, Lumber_2002, aroace2019, Fallenemma, RandomArtist001, Tomohisa, birdsandboys, Palvin_of_the_alvins, Halrine, PiperNightshade, SixEyedMoon, SurreptitiousLife, MJBooklover, catsonthebeach, The_Grey_Reaper, GeckoKing, Tifachu13, CyKat, blueberry_sun, AbbyNormal1206, Thatdambingewatcher, Void_Discord, assana73, jellyfishdreams, boysenberry, charm_dimeshore, AstroAzalea, WolfHowler1, Naria25, simplydxwn, WallFlower5683, Pootser, Remy_1425, LumenWatch, Mentally_OK, moi1, Luai_Lashire, twilightmoon2415, skittay, TeaParadise, TigreDeJade, Unicornio_otako1, RockElen_Elly, ChrishSmish, catnip_wentworth, Scy2007yay, Ecocattycat, ThermicSine, PotatoPal, HouseHermit, Localcryptid420, DoomsdayBeamXD, op_gryphon978, TheCryptidCat, Bobhenryjr, The_Nightshade_Serpent, FallingBackwards, BuiltUpWithCatsAndTeaToMatch, InsomiCat, Wolf_in_Hallowed_Places, AirKat, TheEchoingSoul, Heilay, Cody_kun1, ReadingStuffNow, Sentry_Neko, piaf, Eraserdad_For_Life, esmedipity, Evadark1, Hinako_Celelstia, Neunauge, simply_nur, Rina_P_Wisteria, Mysterious_Prophetess, Squigglezworth, Azera0, markiekin, Wolfs_eat_beez, BlueAlmond, kindlemybaby, ahuundrreddbrrokkennboonees, inhumane, emtriplebee, Wenzku, Epid13, ThIs_is_A_nAme_98769, BoMichigan, lovelysandlonelys, TyWardism, nanayoung, Deadandtired, BarryAllenIsTheFlash, LingVIII, Baalstochter, A_Guest, zainy_abdi, Fallsky25, purpleshadow11, LaundryHamper, AwEsOmEiZeR123, kat99421, Ljos, Silentnicole_09, RandomWritingReader, moontaekook, FMK1, Adelidae, KnightOfSwords, AceAtFirstBase, TwentyOneSaviours, Dragonofelder, PEDAwriter, quietbluejay, mildrice, RedHeadsRock1010, amdela, samvelg, APhantomReader, BippeiBeep, Aquamarine_Ocean, MidnightOfTheGrace, hahahahahahahahahahahaha, Ao_Takahashi, Ryuze, ETG, insomniacat, 3ternal0ptimist, MEITHEREAL, Bleak98, ShadowXIII, Nicini, Penneay, Grotter, Mvalerep, Baku, Flappycat03, BingoBongo269, tormf, Cheese_490, RedTempesta, Alcatraces, StrangerDreams, Alainne, AzurineSkies, Victory_314, Icemice24, sear, vinya_psyco, Dirppaw, Infires_Min, Kori44, Pie_king, SHADOWAKLER, GodofFire3, MarysFanficDump, when_the_mayflowers_bloom, Lyra21, ViviTheGhosty, Alexandria2021, Wolf_Child23, DissociationMyOldFriend, Jermani, Levifold, TheMexicanAttacker, Inkmoon, LavenderBunny1412, Grimey, MarvelaHero33, Spiritedaway1997, Zeldomnyo, jamnstuff, toolazyforthisworld, AlphaWolfie_23, KIDC, 4UserN0tFound4, galazy_rave, ohyun, Ogopogoelmo, Dukesaurus_rex369, Zebe908, LoveIetters, Cha0s_Cat, AngelaCatQuil, Ssmoke, Ichikari, Mallu, TwinKats, Idontknownames, Cinniomon, Sylanc, redrobin1989, KiraDaughterofPoseidon, AkieTsuki_02, MissEvilOverlord, ChickenScratch, PuppetMaster55, Sealover89, StarEyed2, bulgecursed, annikalya, annghost, Qable, Hanakuro411, CandyCandyCrown, Artical_Gem, Hecate_Morrigan13, its_just_an_illusion, Daria_rus, KatieStars3, Authora1604, TokotheBulldog, WassanT004, Basil_Terry, EquinePianist, A_Single_Cactus, tsumdere, Destetra, XiontheDragon, SavannahBanana314, SweetCaroline2345, kgbsprite, auPHE, singingkaneri, Leptospermum, BlueFeline, aizawa_wears_crocs, GazeIntoTheVoid, guillotine_the_rich, melted_icecream_cone, Alias_of_Apocalypse, eusojgeraldo, wisteria_writes, Foulfangs, Betberis, Winters_stars21, Aurora01BorealZory, silklegend, Vispie, EatYeetSleep, pinkkitty54, Neaislove, Smol_FireLizard, CW_Ducky, kissmeoverthegardengate, LittleBlurOfNothing, yandare_senpai, TimeShadow_01, adotdamilton, TerreTheWolf, Allwhoreone, Basic_Hell, Xyla06, bellalovesrevolution, Diana_Zephyr, PrinceFins, SlimeCometh, Cittsah, RoxasConan, Ezallamir, TheVoidIsHiring, Lokomarko, Sparklepanda184, Pirony, NatsuKazeSan, Enir, Tired_And_Bitter, panic1248, twinkfrankenstein, Metalwing, ThatOneShortHuman, LImenH, Rat_Lady, lovelyflowerlov, BlackPantherFandoms, KatThorneR, PIedemonable, DrunkBee, Akuryo_Rekka, Fwings, Kryik, Luscious_Locks, emihi, vWildmage, ajtastic, SupahJapah, Akullow, Addieryn, SpeedyZ, Calvera_draconis, SoftBoyOllie, catfire13, Cassiopeiaaria, ARealHumanPerson, Nuar_Lexx, Painter40, Ihatelifehaha, Primaveraa, Dragon_Inherited, PlatformNineAndThreeQuarters, Sidhe_Siren90, Goshikku, Butterfly_Baby, Tsuyaki, OnlySatanCanLoveaMessLikeMe, Taranov, Myacewall, Kajora26, tacitlyAnimated, ObscureShadow, Xasilios, SHMSCOTCH, xlivion, BurlyUranus, Chile_Mole_y_Pozole, LightningMidoriya, AliceSamSofie, Mann3qU1n_W1r3s, teedotlee, uwaaaah, TheShippingGirl, ozziemelons, Seyram, Itis4amAndINeedSleep, erdah, shinsqu, Higuu, kurokoaoi20, Hedgie_bnha_fan, Liquidite, justsmilemore, IronSpider3425, AuraDragon21, Aj_writes_fanfic, TheMidnightMuse, FrickinGwaine, Potlood101, AnaApolonio5, Tallow_CrimsonS, Devi1s_angel, NicoleThorn14, Whoisthis_lol, Hela06, booping_the_snoot, Temp1217, fuckoffimtired, KuramaKun9, Spiderwolfy, Sinfelicity, kuromi1234, RoboticCat, GrantedClemency, All41, kodamocha, Rosenaire, LyricsofVixra, KittyCatInBlue, APH_hamiltrash17, DiZaster12, MEJ2235, Icecream_samich, PlatinumTiara, CazadorX6000, HiddenCatalyst, Milho, Starknakedcaptains, SparksTheDwagon, Okie_dokie_todoroki, Thomas_Diggs_Jefferson, JohnMandrage, PyroKuro, GalaxyBreath, ADyingFlower, GonnaGiveItABreak, hitoshin, akerii, Dym, Melonn_n, CrimsonSpyder36, titisusu, FlyinSpyder, fallxnrobin, Maricheva, XsoXus, CampGarbage, Mintleaf64, herecomesbucktofuckshitup, CryCaladrius, KejCMidnight, Veredii, GlimmeringRainofStars, shycap, Kabaneri, kwangerine, ASomeonePerson, Subliminal_Anomaly, kaear, 0FantasyIsMyReality0, Klau, akashaakashiya, shironekki, Space_Cooki, Azaki64, Aeolus, pannx_20, karasu_archer, Hope19, LittleHashbrown, everything_is_an_adventure, muuu, kaai18, clockworkhope, Mc_Gem, Pangel4, Jalavo, PickleTop, GeraldTheFabulousGiraffe, SweetSilver3, Fabulously_Fanatic, Manerva, Kafiguas, AColdDayInHell, Yana8acookie, Zim, tsukarete, MiintyMochi, amichalap, Abyssofshameandpancakeobsession, LavieTyme, SilvernSky, ohbanana_bread, OmegaBlack, Anime4Ever, becamarquex, PearBaby, JetBlackWriter, HQM, manamee, talcat, ItsRxchel, VaguelyAnnoyedWriter, Disgruntled_Bisexual, Violetgamingxoxo, Lilythepurplepalidin, jrmyknx, chaoticcx, The_she_demons, DaydreamingAce26, InternallyScreamingIntoTheVoid, AmusedDevil, Getrope, Sm0lAvidReader, Reclusya, Crystalrosie, awriterinthedark, NevermoreWrites, thaed, mekenzimoh2002, fishy_723, retinueinkind, Soulesstar, burningbuildings, Theblah, RoseJennison, Gifffffffffff, Isaac_killmeplease_thisshitsuxass, Serlenia, jadeace115, Winkerpie, knowAll, Grangratree, Green_Fir, Mynnie_Monster, RubelliteGame, Tahitiseabreeze, theLunarWarrior, CKA3CKA, FandomBeez, AliceAbyss, BriarBrambles, Perky, Harym42, ShadowHikaru, Yoihino, passer_by, LoAndBiHold, Sara_Shadowwyng, ArsonUwU, Winterspitfire, ChaoticallyAwkward, Troper_Nyaru, TheOsirisDeclaration, DrakeReach, Gomy_el_camaleon, captainsatire, KinkyDeathMagic, Aelliusblack, Rehnnie, Cathanode, pinkpixxie, Aqualight123, dagnar13, EccentricVillain, Dreamillusions, BlindBunnyGirl, VovinBlack, Noxialis, FuckCramorant, CecileDragonWriter, TiredSmolPrince, AyanetheTiger, lemninoulli, SilverIrisBlossom, 2000DragonArmy, Red_Balloons, FadingRiver, Babybemy7, TheRRavenKing, BlueNoir, iStarryNights, Rainycat, CheesyThiccDoritoLegs, sadza, LivelyMarginocephaliaDelegation, Violetta01, Downyup, Jeikond, Necron_Lord, AnimeTros, Yazooo, eaflower123, EpolepticFairy, imhaving_yourbaby, Luxurious_Hellgirl, Mysticore, crimson_hue, niknms, IzayaRose, DoveAmongAngels, Exaigon, MargoKriak, readingravenclaw, Sillystuck, LeaenaM, sneill_magic, Candy_Apocalypse, shuki, ZiquilaLeo, Xgamergirl04, Paintmosi, GraveRobber0306, SimplyKaren, Sweet_Honey_Bumblebee, Lynnis, LordJRK, Donkeys_pancakes, Univae, Drokon, saltylampboi, ComplimentaryCuller, Somewhere_Else, Haurvatat, Chocoboharrison, Toxic_Shadow, SomniaLillies, with_a_y, Hatsumii, ShadowOfADream, Garidelle, maxridefan1234, Athy_tantoVanitas, Elyra_the_Grey, Totoroandtea, aphrodaisyacs, That_tooth_stealing_fuck, navarchy, cassk02, Allstarall, scoolie, Bleistift, Alin3091a, TheKursed, Hiitzshe, Kal498, LostElfDigHole, thefirstneonphoenix, Rosie11215, Gabbyd193, WhenIDie, xXAshSkyXx, nerodiscord, thiskindasucks, norjeajac, AmericanQueen031604, Elsastina, yestertoa, OGshitPoster, MysticBlaze112, GrackleDragon, My_Chaotic_Mess, ASamwich, F_1_S_H, Kalfina, Noobatplay, CurseOfAnAddict, bog_ghost, Feliadox, Anonymous_Nerb, daydreamNerd, Stargazer_Prime, WindWolf97, BackwaterOtter, IfYouWish, Ultraviollett, torimouto, Sammy2306, Ascaisil, Carcan846, PaperBandit, bitchimaunicorn_Duh, Moongoddess217, Chronic_insomnia, Hajsbdh, miyunariorio, Cryptic_Qrow, toppis, Kellakazoo, truecolorflame, The1eldritchapple, AwesomeAnimePrincess, CAMIvH, LunnarChild, Despondent_Rat, Ravelights, FigmentOfReality, gizolleous, RedBird4002, Malacrux, curledqueen, garbage_pile, Chattycate, NorthernLights208, devo_ID, Quisby, Auriel, Hamburger_burglar, cryptid_lurker, Akinay, MRU911, Nargiss, p1nk_l3m0n4d3, Lulu_1400, ebonynote, Greenapril, jueybom, gandalfstyle, Marina_Kimuchi_the_Bookworm0404, ILoveKlanceart, KaraTadlock, nsve, Honey_Sloth, Taboo_Z, SolidGear, harvestlight, Junpaku_Karasu, JABcat3, AroAndAnxious, Idk_how_to_write, auryworry, LoafvlyWeather, Ei_Armoa, YourEndIsNye, CatsandCocoa, physicswolf, MittensRocks, Kat_Ulysses97, whorror, tiddyghost, YoungWitch, kiwitune, ReedRead0503, NoNameNoFace, bookwormella, heiro, just_arandom, brickforlife, marikaAbowie, Gay_af_0, Purpleland, skywright, Cloud4M_I, marieep, ucoa_space, caspercadaver, Shotorip, BedheadAries, Louise_Tjadina, Mayrane, FauxPause, HushedMelody, Lurking_shadowsx, Cheesecake1302, saelbu, Olli112358, Agatha1905, prythian, rubywings91, Rosebubble89, Renoki, patronsaintoffuck, IfOnlyIKnewWhatIWasDoing, ploThief, deeb0123456789, FandomLoverAngel, Shook_69, Meep575, Mia_chan, i_am_a_small_potato, Lea_Ag, NocturneReads, Itsumi, knmc, LadyoftheNight, tunafishprincess, NoNameCrushedStar, Feddlefew, anary2002, Greekmythologyqueen, creativesm75, Silkesukkermaas, morningbreez, WiltedRen, ChessCat, MARIROO_THE_READER, YokaiLuna, Mclark, MissKraehe, Crowlace, ThatOneDolphinLover, cyber_phobia, The_ScribeSmith, ItsPawlright195, lelaro, FablesForTheSoul, LemonBerry_218, AwesomeETHANw, Sky_Dust, AgentGrayson, daeen, Cheshire_flower, MaraN, Timid_Glitch, BloodrainandDaffodils, bloodinamug, whod99, Lucky4168, ryou25, AlekaLupa, theredqueen, FelicitousVixen, collinver, Angelmonster, MightyDragoon, Wreath_of_Laurels, nonbinary_star, Doctor_J_Smith, TheBringerOfDusk, sharksman, Amaya_in_the_rain, Jhonny_boy, NobodyAkashaAmariel, SaccharineSalt, JustThatAverageFeeling, Louparu, Alkanasynranem, Toast3r_Mafia, LMS274, PotatoPatato, zinatina, PlatonicPilot, Inessen, Wolfink, NervousSalad, PanelinhaDePressao, BigBen_I, L_Anna, Wintercat18, JklPopcorn, kiki_410, Thaenys, givemeyourname, Visionary0, on_clockwork_wings, DustySeal, Jess17z, vaste, archer007, Midlstrit, Pauchalina, rdavignon, IronSeaweed, familyofpaladins, Pikapokemon101, DistilledRain, Moolachan, Cryptix03, Gentrychild and Kunava
             as well as 
          634 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
