      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Part One (Or; THE PLOT.)
2. Yeah, sorry, plot crept back in (FML)
3. Cue the Training Montage
4. Interviews are Hell
5. In Which There Are Problems (Or; Everyone Has Is...
6. Sorry it took so long DX
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Not Rated
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Categories:
               F/MM/M
              Fandom:
               Pacific Rim (2013)
              Relationships:
               Chuck Hansen/Raleigh Becketbackground Mako Mori/Hu Weibackground Sasha Kaidanovsky/Aleksis Kaidanovskybackground Stacker Pentecost/Herc HansenRaleigh Becket &amp; OCRaleigh Becket &amp; Mako Mori?/?background Newton Geiszler/Hermann Gottlieb/Vanessa Gottlieb
              Characters:
               Raleigh BecketChuck HansenMako MoriStacker PentecostHerc HansenTendo ChoiNewton GeiszlerHermann GottliebSasha KaidanovskyAleksis KaidanovskyWei Tang Clanmultiple OCsVanessa Gottliebcharacters that can't be specified because PLOT
              Additional Tags:
               FluffAngstAUSentinel/GuideAlternate Universe - Sentinels and Guides Are KnownFamilies of ChoiceSlow BuildNo one's past is sunshine and rainbowsYou Have Been Warned
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Fate Has...Verse series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2013-10-20Updated:2015-05-27Words:83584Chapters:6/?Comments:942Kudos:427Bookmarks:172Hits:20517
      Fate Has A Fucked-Up Sense of Humor
      artimusdin, missixo, StrikerEurekaTech (purplexeyed)
      Chapter 6: Sorry it took so long DX
          Summary:
            In which things fiiiiiinally start slowly coming together. Chuck matures some, Cor has a heart-to-heart with someone you aren't expecting (or maybe you are), the winners of the basketball game and the bet are revealed and I try my best to keep track of everyone in this chapter, though some feature more heavily than others.
        Notes:
          Holyshitmylifetookoverwithavengeance. Hopefully the next chapter won't take as long AND I will FINALLY get to reveal some stuff that I've been sitting on. Argh.
    Chapter Text
    -x-x-x-x-
Raleigh had stretched and cooled down after his match, but still found himself glancing in the direction Chuck had gone. He was certain--despite not knowing the Aussie too well--that he'd been upset or at least unsettled when he'd left. Considering the kaiju were gone--hopefully forever--and nothing else seemed to be going on, sans the next interview in two weeks, there wasn't really anything that should upset him. And the only things Raleigh could think of? Were that something had happened to Max or to Herc. Neither of which was a situation that the blond wanted to contemplate. Chuck didn't have a lot of family left--his dad, his dog and maybe his uncle. He didn't want to see how the redhead would react to losing any of them, especially his dog.
"Y'alright?" Chance asked before covering a yawn.
Raleigh nodded. "Wonder how the basketball game went..." He commented, as much to draw attention to the triplets, Kaidanovskys and Mako's still being missing as to derail any potential wondering what he was thinking and the ensuing conversation. He... didn't want to discuss it. Felt almost like he'd be betraying Chuck to bring it to the others' attention, let alone having a conversation about it.
"We should know soon." Cor retorted as he smothered a yawn of his own.
Moira frowned. "I dunno. Jin, at least, is mad competitive. So I don't think he'd be willing to let anything close to a tie go."
At this, Raleigh grinned. "Sasha's the same way."
Chance chuckled. "So they'll be playing 'til the end of time, is what you're saying."
"Probably." Raleigh and Moira responded in stereo; Cor just snickered.
"Let's all be glad no one's organized some sort of sporting competition between all the remaining teams, yeah?" Cor said.
Chance's eyes took on a frightening gleam.
"No." His Guide stated. "Absolutely not."
Raleigh looked to Moira.
"You're doomed." She said without a hint of hesitation.
"Not helping." Cor muttered flatly as he attempted to dissuade his stubborn Sentinel.
"Not helping what?" Mako inquired as she led the group of six in.
"Oh no. Don't you even, Chance." Cor snapped as the younger man opened his mouth.
"But, but..."
"No." Cor stated. "Not right now, at least." He amended.
"Okay. ‘Not right now’ I can work with."
Cor groaned.
"Your problem, not mine." Moira muttered, hands in a "don't look at me" gesture.
Sasha merely raised an eyebrow.
"I'm fine." Raleigh stated before anyone could ask, covertly or otherwise.
Sasha frowned.
"No more zones. Cross my heart, hope to die, stick a needle in my eye." Moira affirmed.
"... I don't think that's how that goes." Raleigh said as Jin blanched and Hu made a disgusted face. Chance just exchanged a commiserating glance with Cheung.
Aleksis tilted his head to the side slightly. "Perhaps you Americans are tougher than you look."
"Alrighty then, new topic." Chance cut in.
"Baby Hansen kicked your ass?" Sasha asked, eyes on Moira.
"Pretty much. Helps that he's not a Sentinel, I don't know his style at all and there were fucking staves involved." She grumbled playfully.
That drew a chuckle from those who were well aware of how staves and Moira did not get on.
"Any chance we could continue the training thing now?" Cheung inquired.
Mako glanced to Cor, then Moira.
Both shrugged, then looked to the others.
No one seemed opposed until Raleigh said, "if we do, we should get Chuck."
"Sounds good to me." Chance said with a yawn. "But, can we call it quits for today?"
"You didn't even do anything, lazybones." Cor remarked with a slight smirk.
"Watching Chuck hand Moira her ass was---"
Chance tried to duck before his sister could swat him; the others simply chuckled.
-x-x-x-x-
Stacker lay next to Herc on his bed, a faint smile on his features as he considered his Guide. The other man had fallen asleep not long after walking him through the basics as far as dialing senses up and down went. That was more than alright with him, however, as the scent he could only identify as 'stress' was slowly fading the longer Herc slept.
At this point, the Marshal just had to be glad things had happened the way they did. Had the suppressants failed earlier, it would have been that much harder to watch his Guide march off to what could have easily been his death. He also wasn't sure he would have been able to remain distant and professional as he had been, prior to coming online. He smothered a sigh as he paused to consider how much of a mess this was likely to cause.
He knew this would be a large blow to all those who had held Herc up as proof that a Guide did not need to guide, did not need a Sentinel to be fine, to be whole, to be healthy. He also knew that both of their judgment would be called into question, especially since it was known Herc was his second in command. And this was all just external issues, as he had a feeling that his Guide had never so much as hinted that he'd found his Sentinel to Chuck...
Which opened up a whole new can of worms. He knew allowing Chuck to pilot, to be regularly exposed to the Ponns system, from such a young age was not the best of ideas. But he was also certain that Herc would settle for no one less than his son as his copilot, provided his son could do as needed and was drift-compatible. Unfortunately on both accounts, Chuck fit the bill. Which lead to a fifteen-year-old boy who should have been worrying about high school and homework being one of the elite few who were defending the world from the kaiju. He'd honestly been against the decision from the start—not because he was also a Guide, but because he was fifteen. However, he'd been well aware if he'd so much as mentioned this dislike of Chuck piloting, Herc would have most likely taken it as a bias against Guides and the man would have likely lost much of the faith he had in him.
Which would have, in turn, meant that today would have never happened. That his Guide wouldn't be here, by his side, bonding with him. The chemicals in the suppressants were almost completely flushed from his system; this meant the actual bond would form soon. And while this time uninterrupted with his Guide was something he'd craved for a long time, he couldn't help but be concerned over how things were being handled in his and his Guide's absence. Herc was his second-in-command for a reason: he hated the bureaucracy but could get the job done. Tendo lacked that kind of experience; he had been directly under his command for almost the entire time he'd been Marshal.
Then again, Tendo would have help. And there was no longer the threat of the kaiju in their immediate future.
He supposed it could keep for another week.
-x-x-x-x- 
Raleigh yawned as the others squabbled over whether now was the time to go to dinner or not. So far, the only one against getting dinner had been Cor; for what reason, Raleigh couldn't fathom, as he'd been sparring and had to have worked up an appetite with the rest of them. Exempting Chance, but he was always hungry.
He didn't know how much later it was, but a gentle poke to his side had him cracking his eyes open. When had he fallen asleep? Aleksis had done the poking, and his hand was now extended in an offer to help him stand up. He took it with a slight grin, then stood. Raleigh had no clue why the others suddenly looked sheepish but he was gonna bet it had something to do with the combined force of Mako and Sasha, both of whom looked rather annoyed. “What’d I miss?”
"Nothing important." Mako responded before everyone began to head for the cafeteria.
Aleksis, to Raleigh's surprise, stuck with him instead of rejoining his wife. Mako, when he glanced at her, didn't seem surprised, so he figured it must've been worked out while he was asleep. He wasn't sure what was going on but he was wanted food so he'd just go with it for now.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh spent most of dinner trying to discreetly keep an eye out for Chuck. He hadn't forgotten how he'd looked when he'd disappeared after the last spar. Aleksis, however, kept distracting him with poking and prodding to eat. Mako, after she noticed, joined in as well. Hu just smiled and let it go; he knew his Guide simply wanted to ensure her copilot ate enough and had no intentions of running off with the unbound Sentinel. 
When Raleigh finally looked up from his almost empty plate, he found that the majority of the people at their table and a few nearby were staring at Aleksis--or trying not to. The blond raised an eyebrow at the Russian, who just shrugged and kept eating. Raleigh took the hint and finished his plate without further poking or prompting. 
It was only when dessert started that Raleigh noticed Sasha's absence. Raleigh's gaze drifted to Aleksis. The man  just offered Raleigh his equivalent of a grin--the only one who got the real grin was Sasha--but that only made Raleigh more curious.
Where could Sasha have gotten off to, especially if Aleksis didn't want to talk about it?
-x-x-x-x-
Sasha approached the door, knowing without having to check that it would be locked. Then again, locks weren't much of an obstacle for her. They never had been. She had a feeling baby Hansen might be easier to get through to if she didn't have to break into his room to talk with him, though. Some people were particular in that way.
Her first knock went unanswered, save for Max's barking. Considering baby Hansen treated his Max as well as they did their own Samoyeds, he had to be there. They never confined their dogs to their room unless they were there to play with and pet them; Hansen, they knew, felt the same way.
So she knocked again. When it came to doors and locks, she ran on a three strikes policy, unless there was a threat of immediate danger. Seeing as she doubted baby Hansen had hurt himself, she figured she'd give him a chance to open the door himself. Max continued barking, but the door stayed stubbornly shut. She gave one more solid knock; there was no way he could miss the first two, but this would go easier if he would permit her entrance himself.
After a long moment, she prepared to unlock the door her way, but before she could, she heard the lock being disengaged; a pale, tight face appeared in the crack between door and wall. 
"What?" Chuck hissed, only to to pull back slightly, eyes widening,  when he saw who was outside his door.
She raised an eyebrow.
He stepped aside and let her in, but closed the door and relocked it after her. 
Max waddled over to flop on her feet and shamelessly beg for pets; she obliged him, but offered Chuck the food she'd nabbed from the cafeteria as well.
"...thanks." Was the reluctant response as he eyed the floor.
"You hide instead of eating. Why?" She asked once Max had tired of being petted and wandered back to flomp in his dog bed.
"Like you don't already know." He returned; when her response was to simply stare at him, he reconsidered. "The old man. He's Pentecost's Guide."
"And?"
"What d'yah mean 'and'?!"
“And who cares?”
Chuck spluttered incoherently.
"Why does it matter? Herc is still Herc, Sentinel or no Sentinel." Sasha added firmly. "Still does same things, still capable of same things."
"It's--"
"You have Sentinel, too." She cuts in. "Were you to bond with Raleigh, would that make you bad as he is?"
Chuck froze, as though the thought hadn't occurred to him.
"So you are angry, but perhaps not over that." Sasha said. 
Chuck ran a hand through his hair; it was already sticking up, so it was easy to assume he'd done this multiple times before. She refused to find that endearing.
"Why're you here, anyway? Thought you were best buddies with Becket, now." He growled, trying to deflect.
"If Raleigh made comment about your mother, he would get same." Sasha responded coolly. “You have inclination to believe that person’s dislike of you is them being prejudiced asses. In truth, is your actions that cause much of problems here."
Chuck flinched. It wasn't that he'd forgotten about his comment. He just...hadn't figured out how to apologize yet. While he knew he could generally be a pain in the ass, he knew it was a cheap shot as soon as he said it. He would've pounded the ever loving shit out of whoever said something like that, so how the fuck was he suppose to apologize for that? Then the second half of hers sank in. 
"What?" He snapped.
"Have you seen same people interact with little Mako? The head Guide? They do not treat them as less. There are genuinely prejudiced people. Shatterdome is not a place where many are; the Marshall does not permit it. We do not permit it."
He could only stare at her; his assumption had been unquestioned for so long that it had become habit to assume anyone who was nasty to him--with a few notably clear exceptions--simply had it out for Guides or thought he was 'above his station' because he was one. 
Sasha merely waited for this to penetrate Chuck's thick skull. He was a good kid; there was no denying that, especially as it was known that he took to piloting to try to prevent anyone else's family from being torn apart the way his own was. That said, his attitude was grating at times and he needed to learn how to interact with people, as being a Hero of the Breach would only permit him to continue this behavior for so long. He also needed to apologize to Raleigh but she supposed that would have to be on his terms. Better to have him wait to do it and manage it sincerely than have him rush it to appease others, then Raleigh find out later on that it seemed to have been the only reason he'd apologized. Based on the fact that she knew Chuck wasn't a complete ass, coupled with the flinch at the mention of his comment, she figured he was also aware of how big a deal what he said was. If he knew that, then he also knew how important a real apology would be.
"Still doesn't change that he never said anything." Chuck finally growled.
"Would be better reaction if you knew?" Sasha retorted, but the words lacked the bite they would have had if she were talking to someone she deemed a fool. "He would still be with someone not your mother. Still, in your eyes,  less of role model."
Chuck swallowed, but said nothing.
"You would react only way you know how: with anger and lashing out. Against the Marshall. How long it take him to ground you?"
He closed his but responded, "not long."
"Then you understand why Hercules did not tell you."
"Yeah, but--"
"You understand. Does not mean you have to like."
For the second time, Chuck just stared at her.
"Why are you telling me this?" He finally managed to get out.
"I thought you knew." She said gently. "Jaeger pilots must always stick together, regardless if we are male or female, Sentinel or Guide. If we do not watch after each other, who will? If you haven’t figured that simple truth out, then there is much we still must teach you."
Chuck gave her a flat look. "You look out for your fellow Rangers."
"Why so surprising I bring you food and speak with you, then?" She said.
His expression could only be called flat. "Because you sided with Becket."
"I am not against you. Am against your shitty attitude."
Chuck didn't have anything to say to that. Just like he would never admit that when she remained with him while he ate, it helped him to feel a bit less isolated, a bit less angry.
She eventually stood. "You should get food tomorrow with everyone."
Sasha was halfway out of the room before she heard a grumbled, "maybe."
She was going to count that as a win.
-x-x-x-x-
Tendo sighed quietly as he rubbed as his temples. Whoever was clicking that pen needed to stop and stop yesterday but when he glanced up, he found no one doing so.
"Alright, people, let's call it til after dinner."
That won him grins and high-fives until the person appointed to be Stacker's new secretary walked into the room.
All celebration ceased as everyone eyed the newcomer, who didn't much leave his office.
"I'm here to inform a--" He paused and looked down at the paper he held. "--Mr. Choi that he is Temporary Marshall until--" He looked down at the paper again, frowning. "--further notice."
The whispers began but they were drowned out for Tendo by the absolute shock. Sure, he was J-Tech Chief. Sure, he kept the hangars--both the people and jaegers in them--running like well-oiled machines. But most of that was knowing people, knowing who to add to what crew, who would work the best with the others already there. Or who to have sub in if there was an injury. His normal work entailed people and machines, not paperwork. Not responsibility for the entire 'Dome and everyone in it.
"Shouldn't that message be for Ranger Hansen?" He found himself asking.
"No, it's clearly marked 'Tendo Choi'." The secretary said before handing him the paper.
"Okay, people, still breaking for dinner. Be back by seven, yeah?"
That got him murmurs of of affirmation before everyone except the secretary streamed out and towards the mess hall.
The secretary stood before him, expectantly.
He allowed himself a sigh before he broke the seal on the envelope and began to read what his orders from Stacker were. The building headache only seemed to worsen as his eyes skimmed the lines that told him exactly why this message wasn't for Herc Hansen.
-x-x-x-x-
"Chuuuuuuuuuck." The whining, drawn-out call of his name was accompanied by a loud pounding on the door.
It'd only been a half hour since Sasha left and Chuck was still stewing over what she'd said.
"What?" He snarled, opening the door. It was Chance and he knew damn well the fucking irritating Sentinel wouldn't piss off until acknowledged.
"Hi!" Chance said, grinning. Cor stood with him, an unfamiliar bag hanging off one shoulder.
"Piss off." Chuck returned and made to shut the door, but Chance stopped him.
"Either you come with us or we're coming in. Your choice." Cor stated.
Chuck stared. "Not much of a choice." He growled but moved aside so they could come in. He knew better, now, than to try to stop Chance. Idiot the man was, but that idiot was a force of nature when provoked. He didn't know what the fuck had provoked him, but he recognized the mood.
Cor merely opened the mystery bag, pulled out a laptop and booted it up while Chance fussed over Max.
The redhead glared at his dog; goddamn traitor was wagging his stub at Chance and leaning into the fussing.
"Which?"
He turned to find Cor holding out several DVDs: one was Tangled, one was Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2 and the other was Wreck It Ralph. He pointed at Wreck It Ralph; he figured a movie about someone destroying things would fit his mood well.
"Awh, I was hoping for Tangled." Chance grumbled.
"We can kidnap your sister and watch it later tonight." Cor responded as he put Wreck It Ralph in.
"This plan, I like it, another!" 
"He won't get that reference yet, genius." Was Cor's bored retort as Chuck stared at them like they were nuts.
The three settled in and watched the film. In spite of himself, Chuck found himself being drawn in and even laughing at some points. When Max tired of Chance's fussing and flopped on his lap, he only petted him absently.
Chance grinned and asked, "whatcha think?" as the credits rolled.
"Pretty good." He admitted stiffly.
Chance and Cor highfived. 
"Awesome! You'll have to join us next time we watch it, yeah?"
Chuck stared at him.
"Of your own volition." Chance added.
"You know what that word means?" Was all Chuck could think to say.
Chance, to his shock, laughed. "Yep! M'da was a lawyer. Anyway, we'll let you alone now. We just wanted to hang out for a little, not take over your entire evening. You'll join us for breakfast, yeah?"
Chuck just blinked.
Cor smirked. "Or we can bring food to you. Either way works for us, but you need to be around people more. Only way you'll get better at it and all that jazz."
The Aussie glowered at them.
"Hey, no glaring. We're trying to help."
"Why?" Chuck snapped.
"Well, you probably think of us as annoying trainers, but I consider you a friend at least. And, well, you're a Ranger too. Rangers look after our own." Chance stated; Cor simply nodded his agreement.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh yawned and climbed into his bed without a second thought. While there were days he'd been more tired--like days he'd piloted--all the sparring he'd done today had caught up with him. Thanks to this, plus the short meditation session he'd been dragged into, he was out rather quickly.
-x-x-x-x-
Newt eyed the stack of papers in front of him. Thankfully, they were not part of what he had been helping the Marshal with. No, these were worse; they demanded responses or signatures from him and him alone. All were scientific in nature, though he was half convinced a few of those scientists were actually kaiju cultists in disguise but he'd vet each request more thoroughly once he had a chance to wrap his mind around the sheer volume of people now wanting to meet with, talk to and work with him.
There was another, almost larger, stack of papers that were joint requests for all three of them. Two slightly smaller piles were for either Hermann or Vanessa.
While, after years of being dismissed and treated like the scientist equivalent of the ebola virus, it was nice to have some gratification and acknowledgment... he found he didn't care as much as he once had, for one. They'd won, they were done; the kaiju were no more. And while he definitely would continue to study them until he'd created something that would easily wipe them from the face of the planet once he'd dissected every possible part of them, he...didn't want much in the way of helpers. Or interlopers.
He found he was somewhat pissed, now, that everyone was suddenly oh-so-interested. They saved the fucking world, so now everyone wanted to try to make up for how they behaved prior to that. Bunch of fucking kiss asses, that's all they were.
That and his anger were secondary to his other problem. All three of them had a near-equal amount of offers together as alone but....it was obvious the better ones were the separate ones, because it gave them leave to study their separate fields extensively. And they'd only just gotten back together, the three of them, after having to spend so long apart due to the war. That and...he kinda wanted to stay here, with the PPDC. He had no guarantees that Hermann or Vanessa would want to, as they had a wider range of opportunities, while most of his solo ones seemed to be limited to K-Science exclusively.
Vanessa padded in, still damp from her shower and paused. “You organized them?”
He nodded and indicated which piles were which. Hermann returned from the side room—the office, they'd dubbed it—in time to hear the explanation.
Vanessa bit her lip. “I appreciate that you did this for us, but...”
Herman sighed. “I plan to use them for kindling."
Newt blinked once, twice. “...you're burning them?”
“I believed you would approve, as I have no intention of leaving the Pan Pacific Defense Corps.” The man paused, before continuing, “I could see perhaps guest lectures, but none of this professor nonsense. If anyone wishes to learn from me specifically, they may come and join us here.”
Vanessa nodded. “So it's not that we don't appreciate it, but--”
“No.” Newt cut her off. “I'm glad. I approve. Really." He looked down. “Was...kinda worried."
She didn't hesitate to come over and wrap her arms around him; Hermann joined them, touching both equally.
“We only just got to reestablish our bond.” Vanessa nuzzled Newt. “And I, for one, have no intention of being separated from either of you for the next year at least.”
Hermann nodded his agreement and even gave Newt a nuzzle too.
The shorter scientist relaxed and returned the affection. “Love you guys.”
“And we, you.” Hermann responded. “Do not forget it.”
His answer was a smile he hadn't seen since the tide had turned in the war. For him, it was enough...even though they were back to paperwork duty in a few days.
-x-x-x-x-
Sasha stretched languidly; after their prolonged and warm shower, plus the basketball game, her muscles were loose in a way they hadn't been in quite some time. She looked down at their “work” phone and frowned. Apparently it had died sometime after their basketball game, if the sudden influx of emails, texts and missed calls were any indication.
A soft kiss to the back of her neck made her smile. “We have missed much.”
“Was worth it." Aleksis murmured as he eyed the phone."Time to sort."
She nodded. “With luck, there will be message we wait for.”
The look that comment earned her was for her and her alone; she indulged herself and pressed a kiss to his lips before the two got to work on sorting through the massive amount of emails, texts and voicemails.
It was not until almost two in the morning that they found the first one they had missed. It was a rather brief email, but it was the subject line that really caught their attention. Sasha knew her expression at the moment was probably a bloodthirsty smile; knew, even without the drift, that her husband and copilot was echoing it.
Their contact had done it, had found the bastard Octavius.
And he'd done one better.
The asshole in question was now on his way to Hong Kong, where it would be very, very easy for them to question him, and then ensure he mysteriously disappeared, never to be heard from again.
...She had a feeling that they would not be the only ones who wanted to speak with the beast, however. So they would be nice, they would behave, they would let the others have a turn. But in the end?
They would have the final say. And Yancy Becket would finally be avenged.
-x-x-x-x-
Mako yawned discreetly, covering her mouth with her hand. Hu looked up from his book, expression softening at the sight of her.
Across the room, his brothers mimed gagging or rolled their eyes.
While they were glad they were trying a new rooming solution—one that let those two be together but didn't have Cheung and Jin twitching due to ghost drifting—they could also do without the watching their brother go all mushy over Mako.
Cheung was more amused than annoyed, but Jin looked like he was ready to attempt to smother himself with a pillow rather than continue to see his brother going ga-ga over someone. Admittedly, that someone was a very strong, very competent and very intelligent woman who just happened to compliment him very well but that wasn't the point.
The eldest rolled his eyes. “Relax, Jin. Is honeymoon stage.”
“Honeylife is more like it.” Came the stubborn grumble, though both knew that things were nowhere near as bad as Jin made it sound. They had made progress on their own with their attempts to use the drift to pull Hu from a zone, Mako was much more understanding than the average person and perfectly willing to let them have brother-time, and they'd beaten the Kaidanovskys at basketball, as per their bet. His brother being overly sappy was about the only thing Jin could find to complain about, aside from the upcoming press conference.
Cheung shook his head. “Let them. We find our own person to be with soon enough.”
Jin glared at him and put the pillow on top of his head. Ugh.
-x-x-x-x-
Raleigh jerked awake, covered in a cold sweat; the memory of “Raleigh listen to me--” still echoed in his ears and mind. He shuddered and pulled the blanket around him for a moment as he took a slow breath. He hadn't had that dream since the night after Chuck had made the crack about Yancy...
He frowned. While Herc had managed to trigger a flashback fairly recently, it wasn't...he'd been calm, been adjusted, been okay when he went to bed. Which usually meant that his dreams, at least, wouldn't go from dream to nightmare to memory and back again like some ungodly insomnia-causing tilt-o-whirl.
He released another slow breath before he dropped the blanket and threw on a sweater, then slammed his feet into his boots. The blonde was well aware that when he got like this, the best course of action was to go for a walk, maybe grab something warm to drink. With that in mind, he headed for the cafeteria. He'd get his walk and his warm drink; two for one. To his insomnia-addled brain, this sounded like an amazing idea.
Fortunately for him, when he arrived, there was already someone there with two steaming mugs. For a second, his heart clenched painfully; back when Yance was alive, this was something that had happened far more often than he'd care to admit.
But this wasn't his brother. They were shorter and had the wrong hair color; it was also far longer than Yancy had ever kept it, save that one dare in middle school that had his hair so long it was brushing his shoulders. They looked up.
Cor nodded to him, then indicated the tea.
Raleigh didn't question it; he took the seat across the table from him and took a sip of the tea. It tasted like liquid candy cane, but not quite as sweet.
“Peppermint.” Cor responded idly before Raleigh could even formulate the question.
“How...?” Raleigh ended up managing out instead.
“You are far from the only one with insomnia.” Was the bland retort. “In this case, I could tell someone was coming and figured I could at least share my tea.”
Raleigh eyed him over the rim of the cup. “You thought it was Chance or Moira, didn't you?”
Cor rolled his eyes. “Hardly. Those two I know by signature. The rest of the Rangers are becoming familiar, however. You are among them.”
The blonde hid his frown in the cup, which he was still sipping from. It was, admittedly, delicious. “Thanks.”
The shorter man nodded and went back to his book, as well as his neglected cup.
“...what is this, exactly?” Raleigh found himself questioning after a few moments of silence.
Cor closed his book and put it on the table; the motion was more resigned than snappish. “Peppermint tea with honey. Soothing, no caffeine to be found.”
“Perfect comfort drink for insomnia?”
He nodded before abruptly changing the subject. “Were you serious?”
“About?”
“Having Chuck train with you.”
“Yeah. Not like he's the only one who's training. Probably should work together, since we're working on things that overlap.”
“How so?” Cor's voice was as neutral as his expression.
“I'm learning to control my senses. He's learning to use his empathy. We're probably gonna end up at least working together, so learning one another's strengths, weaknesses and quirks now is, well...” He shrugged. “Seems like a good idea.”
“So this is about practicality?”
Raleigh stared at him for a long moment. “You interrogating me because you're worried for Chuck? Or d'you just not want us all training together?”
“Little of both.” Cor ceded. “But what I need to know is if you're doing this because you pity him.”
Had the chair not been attached to the table, Raleigh would have knocked it over when he stood. “You know damn well he works better training with me than he does with Chance! And I already said it'd give us a shot to get to know one another better, so fuck you for thinking any of this has to do with pity!”
Cor, to his shock, was smiling. “Good to know.” He took a sip of his tea. “That doesn't taste half as good cold.” He offered blandly, indicating Raleigh's cup.
The blonde wanted to curse at him, but felt the anger draining from him as rapidly as it'd appeared. He eyed the Guide; wasn't so sure he wanted to touch that tea again.
Cor reached across the table, snagged Raleigh's cup, took a gulp, then replaced it. His expression was clearly 'you were saying?'
Raleigh glared but took his seat and slowly drank the rest of his tea. He really didn't like that little half smile on Cor's face, but hell if he knew what put it there.
“My apologies.” He commented, raising his eyes from his cup. “But I wasn't sure of your intentions, and while I know damn well Chuck can take care of himself... he's been through enough.”
Raleigh eyed the tea bag bobbing slightly in the bottom of his mug. “I can agree to that.”
“Then you and I should have no problems.”
For a long moment, Raleigh waited; expected something else to go with that statement. That was when it hit him: he was expecting there to be a 'kid' or even a 'brat' attached to that statement. Because that was exactly how Yancy would refer to him and Cor? Cor fought exactly like him...
“Something wrong?”
“No.” He replied calmly enough and drained the last of his tea, mumbled a thanks and quickly disappeared back to his room. The idea of being alone with someone who knew his moves and Yancy's moves as well as they did, when one was dead and the other was him? A little too eerie to entertain this late at night.
… he made sure to engage the lock on his door before he snagged a book and sprawled out on his bed. He'd a feeling he wouldn't manage any more sleep that night, so he might as well read one of the books that seemed to keep sneaking their way into his room.
-x-x-x-x-
Around four am, he gave up and went back to the cafeteria; figured maybe warm milk would help where the tea hadn't. He paused a moment to eye Cor, who was still seated at that same table, though he was quite a bit further through the book.
Cor gave him a distracted nod as he thumbed through a section of the book, uncapped highlighter clenched between his teeth. His hair stuck up in all directions, like he'd run his hands through it repeatedly. 
"What're you reading?" Raleigh finally asked after several moments of silence.
"Book on gangs around Anchorage. It deconstructs their typical crimes, MOs, and the most famous cases of revenge that resulted in death or maiming." He responded, tugging on his hair.
"Why the hell are you reading that at four am?" Raleigh responded.
Cor finally looked up from his book to look at Raleigh. His head tilted to the side slightly as he considered him; Raleigh guessed it might be a tic of some sort.
He sighed. "What have I told you about my past?"
"Just that you don't recall much beyond vague memories because of what I assumed was some sort of accident."
That earned him a bitter laugh. "Whatever happened to me was no accident. I was all but broken physically and the trauma disrupted my memories in a major way."
Raleigh frowned. "You're...trying to see if any match what you went through?"
Cor gave a stiff nod. "Still not sure what I'm doing on that front but...this is better than nothing."
Raleigh returned the nod, not quite sure what could be said in response to that. He turned his attention to studying the man across the table. This Cor was markedly different from the one a few hours earlier. For one, he was much more approachable like this. For another? The stress and the fatigue made him come across as more human. The blond was far too used to thinking of Cor as this calm, eternally unflappable person so while he didn't relish seeing him like this, well... It was a welcome change.
"You know...not coming off as constantly calm and unflappable isn't a bad thing."
Cor narrowed his eyes, then prodded him using his empathy. "You're being honest. Not mocking."
"Yeah. You're more approachable when you're not constantly unreadable."
Raleigh winced when Cor dropped his head in his hands.
"You're right." Came the muffled response. "Just...too used to hiding."
"Makes sense. But it should be okay now, yeah?"
The older man met his gaze, then dropped his eyes to the table. "...I guess you're right." With that, he stuck his finger in his eye.
Raleigh jerked and almost dove across the table until he realized Cor was removing contacts.
A pair of very blue eyes met his own and he swallowed.
"Question."
"Answer." Cor responded in his usual droll tone.
"The training sims you used..."
Realization dawned. "Ah. The copying. Yeah, sorry. I always ended up on the side you calibrated."
"Makes sense."
Cor huffed in amusement. "Bet it still creeped you out."
It was Raleigh's turn to huff but he couldn't deny that the slightly-more-relaxed set of Cor's shoulders made him feel better. He had even forgotten about the reason he'd come back entirely, but he guessed he'd remember sooner or later. In the mean time, he'd take advantage of the fact that he and Cor were able to talk without a buffer.
-x-x-x-x-
Chuck yawned as he plodded towards the cafeteria, Max on his heels.
He wasn't pleased over what his father had done and the old man still wasn't allowed back in his room but... he could appreciate what Sasha, Chance and Cor had been saying. And got that the more he tried to close himself off and hide, the more they'd come bug him until he came out and dealt with everyone again. He was still prickly, still a bit upset but...so long as no one brought up his father, he should be good.
Or so he thought until he found Raleigh asleep at one of the tables across from who appeared to be Cor.
"Oy!" He snapped and both jumped.
"Chuck?" Raleigh squinted.
The one who looked like Cor didn't have green eyes but blue. "And who the fuck are you, huh?"
"Cor, dumbass. I just took my contacts out."
"Again with the cafeteria sleeping?" Came Chance's annoyed mumble as he dragged himself in.
"Wasn't just me, don't wanna hear it."
Chance scowled but with his sleep-puffy eyes and tousled hair, the effect was more comical than threatening. "You makin' off with my Guide, Becket?"
"Nope. But he does make a mean cup of tea."
Chuck twitched. Was that some sort of fucking euphemism?
Raleigh covered a yawn and ignored that touch was trying to spike. It had taken longer, this time, for his senses to go on the warpath. Maybe they were finally adjusting to Chuck being around...? Well, if hanging out with the Aussie more meant he wouldn't have to deal with his senses going on strike, he'd do it and do it gladly.
Chance echoed his yawn. "Actually, aren't we supposed to all train together today?" 
"Starts today, yeah." Cor responded. 
"Wait, you agreed?" Chuck cut in.
Cor glanced to Raleigh for a moment, then nodded. "Better to have you work with him than that idiot anyway."
Chance sniffed. "That idiot is your idiot."
Cor simply smiled. "Indeed he is."
Chuck just gaped at Cor, then stared at Raleigh. What in the fuck went on last night, that Cor had agreed to the joint training AND was smiling?
-x-x-x-x-
  Notes:
  Holy crap. Seriously. This was supposed to be short, sweet and to the point. But nooooooooooooooooooooo.-StrikerEurekaTech's:Obligatory Tumblr Link-missixo's: Obligatory Tumblr Link-artimudin's: Obligatory Tumblr Link
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Fate Has...Verse series Next Work →
  Works inspired by this one:
        How To Lose Your Virginity: Socially Stunted Ranger Edition by artimusdin, missixo
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (32)
  Comments
          Sacha_Hjart, Newtalot, Whoisincontrol, TiredEntity, taishainu, LightningBond515, ShiaLaBeefyPeen, Marangeljade, Follychone, Sorran, its_like_looking_in_3d, DystopiaEm, athenethegoddess02, Qweaenr, ragestine, kty92, wearethewitches, LadyZee, Justanother_Fandomslave, Epidenic, marmaladeOwl, tobydoglover5, Selles, gamesprite, Shewolf1990, ChaoticLlama, Isa_von_Schwanbach, secret_writer_secret_musician, Suki_Enogawa, mayflower27g, titaniaeli, amako, peupeugunn, aHostileRainbow, chibi_zoe, Momokai, notaredshirt, f_j_l, HopeEmblem, ArianaMoon, Enan, Farisya, Rainrayvn, Hails0001, everblockedwriter, heartninja, Pixy_revenge, Daughter_of_Gaia, mudder3300, Missthingsandstuff, 
               and 184 more users
            sweetypea16, poisonedbymako, PaisleyPenguin, jstar, ZeroMonster, hridi1533, ikki9117akarose, AlicAlrres, redhuntress26, remramrom_33, wittylittleknitter, martinharis325, clyhos, Dema, mercuryfire_6471, captainthatship, Komorebi_reads, tunnelOFdawn, liandrin, sparrowhawk17, absconditus, empty_shoebox, Deylicious, DarkShadeless, Cimila, PotatoesandCoffee, Hima_Hime, ladychild, dammitbilinski, Lizardbut, SnowyAshCat, kyuluna, Athlum, JesterCard, giggles805, Raider_of_the_Lost_Book, waterbendingmiko, Delilah_Noir, remi_wolf, seraphina_snape, AliceIsWandering92, KarenMitchell, morellafuriosa, machiattobitch, rowergirl_08, moonlightress, DDBB19, ailes_de_cire, Itoshii_chan, Over_the_Love204, micahsleopard, megara_s, Knyghtshade, SeaWyvern, KiraKyuu, Plumptie, NexusAstor, Sorcerer_of_the_Flame, cupcakegremlin, Novagirl04, nazgullover, sapine, Helldog, emmafoxtrot, SilverWolfQueen, fathertizime, Ibby, yamikitsune, Fuente, Kalistar, Pheneline, Wanderer_Brown_Sheep, gomory, tygercub, SirienCleresta, I_said_therefore, Jazz_s_shadow, bralexiel, BlackRose16, frickle_frackle, Elf_Queen, Runkari, InvisibleSpork, tosca, PinkFeline, Soteira, kitish, JamieBenn, Volitina, CookieMonstAri, madnessneverhowls, Secret_H, ndmzero, astrakage, Simarillion, strifechaos, RavensShadow, thelobstermobster, el_gilliath, Chaerring, vlbuehle, Dark_Dreamer, Onnoff, Reasonablyirrational, shinigami_lupin, Silverheart97, saltwaterandwoodsmoke, Shaenlyn, libbybird22, Nocturnal_Fox, Towelrack, Duskborn, averyintelligentdog, phirephox666, Alucra, Jaybirdie, Lostariel, neomateo, mylilponyofDOOM, daeguhobbit, ashtreeowl, tsukiryuu, AdieraFire, Cougars_catnip, kingkirkwall, katefish617, Latinlyaahen, livingv, nsyncat, heyk, beastlyrose, kasumixkira, hiddencait, batrox, artimusdin, Minique, miints, Em5, Lia_Lenore, kdst10002, pinch_trap, anruiukimi, windeetree, SighingWinter, d_lueth, Dany_Darling, daemoninwhite, amusewithaview, Saeraphyna, twelve_pastels, fearlesssisters, Aranwion, adeegeeak, LittleWhiteDragonlet, Nikariot, XingPanda, Joveesia, Opheliad, Wyndewalker, surgicalstainless, mythtakenforastory, Ishyko, Darkanimefox, ninjaofthe9seas, Madeline_Katsuragi, SaintYsabel, annabelle_edmund, inthedrift, homebody_20, thegodmachine, fadedink, SublimeDiscordance, keldeska, KateRobin, Maliex, Rui2, Jiri, taiyo_no_drake, VarnishedThoughts, Oneshot_Yaoi_Shipper, Bondlock, alexiel_rain, Aniana and Draya
             as well as 
          193 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
