      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Choices
  Dashboard
  Profile
Pitch
	Works (0)
	Series (0)
	  Bookmarks (2)
  Collections (0)
Switch
  Gifts (0)
	  CinnamonPaint
  ﻿
    Recent bookmarks
       Public Bookmark
      2
      MMMMMacaroni ;)
      by
      jefferoni (CrowleysGlasses)
      Fandoms:
      Hamilton - Miranda, EE's tumblr adventures
 Teen And Up Audiences
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 Gen, M/M, Other, Multi
 Complete Work
    04 Jul 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsThomas Jefferson/Macaroni Alexander Hamilton/Thomas Jefferson Alexander Hamilton/Thomas Jefferson/James Madison Alexander Hamilton/James Madison Thomas Jefferson/James MadisonThomas Jefferson Alexander Hamilton A bowl of Mac and cheese James MadisonCrack blame tumblr jefferoni so this all started when I got an ask requesting Jefferson x Mac and cheese then I wrote two extra parts because people kept ASKING THIS IS NOT COMPLETED it never will be i will keep writing parts next part out at 2000 followers basically this is weird and sexual Non-Explicit Sex Implied Sexual Content Jamilton is in here for a bit???? and then there’s a love triangle???? Bottom Thomas Jefferson implied - Freeform bottom Jefferson is a big FUCK YOU to the anons on tumblr because FUCK you jefferson is a bottom fight me It is done.
    Summary
      Jefferson loves Macaroni and cheese. But a time comes where he must decide... his darling Mac or Alexander Hamilton? Hes forced to confront his feelings, when James Madison enters the mix as well.- Crack which became my Tumblr legacy, this is updated whenever I fucking want.  Enjoy this if you want. The first part is written a LONG time before the other three were, which is why the writing style has changed slightly. Read this is you dare, because it’s literally just Jefferson flirting with a bowl of Mac and cheese.
    Series
          Part 1 of Hamilton Crack
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    2,422
    Chapters:
    4/4
    Comments:
    21
    Kudos:
    49
    Bookmarks:
    2
  Hits:
  548
              Show Most Recent Bookmarks
      Bookmarked by CinnamonPaint
    05 Jun 2020
       Public Bookmark
      *
      Who finds the Decimo? (Aka Hide-and-seek Vongola style)
      by
      Anneko16
      Fandoms:
      Katekyou Hitman Reborn!, The Avengers (Marvel Movies)
 Teen And Up Audiences
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 Gen
 Complete Work
    25 Oct 2019
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsSawada Nana &amp; Sawada Tsunayoshi Reborn/Sawada TsunayoshiSawada Tsunayoshi Sawada Nana Reborn (Katekyou Hitman Reborn!) Vongola Tenth Generation Guardians Arcobaleno (Katekyou Hitman Reborn!) Vindice (Katekyou Hitman Reborn!) Natasha Romanov (Marvel) Tony Stark Bruce Banner Steve Rogers Thor (Marvel) Loki (Marvel) Clint Barton Nick FuryHow Do I Tag Crack Crossover Family Fluff Nana is Tony's sister BAMF Sawada Nana BAMF Sawada Tsunayoshi Adorable Sawada Tsunayoshi Everyone Loves Sawada Tsunayoshi The mafia is crazy Good Loki (Marvel) because he deserves it
    Summary
      Sawada Tsunayoshi was sure that Chaos was a main part of his life (of course, Reborn was particularity living with him). It was the main theme. So, like a hardened soldier, he thought that nothing could surprise him. His family was crazy. He knew that.  He accepted them and loved them the way they were. But, at least his mother was normal. A little airhead, but normal. (Or so, he thought…)So, imagine his shock, when Nana broke into the Vongola Mansion, alone, shut down the security cameras with practicality just to invite him to a mother-son outing.What could he do in a situation like that? Say yes. (Again, His life, why???)
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    25,168
    Chapters:
    1/1
    Comments:
    6
    Kudos:
    338
    Bookmarks:
    103
  Hits:
  4107
              Show Most Recent Bookmarks
      Bookmarked by CinnamonPaint
    22 Mar 2020
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
