      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    from diavolo
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      ジョジョの奇妙な冒険 | JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken | JoJo's Bizarre Adventure
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Invisible Chains [Smut version]
      by
      NekoNo999
      Fandoms:
      ジョジョの奇妙な冒険 | JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken | JoJo's Bizarre Adventure
 Explicit
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings, Rape/Non-Con
 F/M, Multi
 Complete Work
    27 Sep 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings Rape/Non-ConLa Squadra di Esecuzione Members (JoJo)/Reader Risotto Nero/Reader Prosciutto (JoJo)/Reader Formaggio (JoJo)/Reader Illuso (JoJo)/Reader Melone (JoJo)/Reader Ghiaccio (JoJo)/ReaderLa Squadra di Esecuzione Members (JoJo) Risotto Nero Prosciutto (JoJo) Pesci (JoJo) Formaggio (JoJo) Illuso (JoJo) Melone (JoJo) Ghiaccio (JoJo) Diavolo (JoJo) just mentioned - Character Reader feisty reader - Character oh I love this readersorry there are no sorbet and gelato here writing orgy is so exhausting I gotta minimize the parties and my policy is no smut for pesci but he gotta be here to observe it all poor boi Group Sex Revenge Sex Vaginal Sex Cunnilingus blowjob Double Penetration Oral Sex Riding Multiple Orgasms Multiple Sex Positions Recorded Sex Extremely Dubious Consent reader is really uncomfortable at the beginning but she thought she could use it as a big fuck you to the boss so she decides to join since they're gonna record it all and send to the boss to see Implied/Referenced Rape/Non-con from diavolo
    Summary
      The boss has had enough with his lover's stubbornness and insolence. He decided to teach her a lesson.You were sent to the base of the most cruel team - the hitmen team. You knew that your constant spite against the abhorrent man will finally get you in trouble.You didn't expect to find the forbidden pleasure in it.
    Series
          Part 2 of Your lost, Diavolo
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    8,536
    Chapters:
    1/1
    Comments:
    6
    Kudos:
    58
    Bookmarks:
    3
  Hits:
  945
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
