      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Welcome to America Emil.
2. Meet Emil Alfred
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
5. Chapter 5
6. Chapter 6
7. In witch GIlbert is a little shit, and we learn ...
8. Chapter 8
9. Chapter 9
10. interlude: A fathers worry. A brothers thoughts...
11. Chapter 11
12. Chapter 12
13. Chapter 13
14. Chapter 14
15. Chapter 15
16. Chapter 16
17. Chapter 17
18. No one (was there to listen)
        Full-page index
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warnings:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsNo Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               M/MMultiOther
              Fandom:
               Hetalia: Axis Powers
              Relationship:
               America/Iceland (Hetalia)
              Characters:
               Iceland (Hetalia)America (Hetalia)Scandinavia (Hetalia)Denmark (Hetalia)Norway (Hetalia)Sweden (Hetalia)Female Finland (Hetalia)Switzerland (Hetalia)Liechtenstein (Hetalia)England (Hetalia)France (Hetalia)Canada (Hetalia)Hong Kong (Hetalia)Taiwan (Hetalia)South Korea (Hetalia)Seychelles (Hetalia)
              Additional Tags:
               scandinavia is an ocmore characters are to comeAlternate Universe - Modern SettingAlternate Universe - High SchoolAlternate Universe - HumanAlternate Universe - Gender ChangesNyotaliapunk!Icelandonly he is acutually a dorkhe just doesn't show it muchIceland is in love with bootsand has a lot of themLike A Lot A LotAt some point characters are mentioned but not really in hereAnd have no point to be in here except as a background characterOopsArthur is slowly going to mother IcelandArthur probably sees a little of himself in EmilAuthor regrets slow updatesorry - FreeformArthur was a punkAnd most would call Emil a punkso theres thatOh No Emil's sickAlfred and Arthur to the rescueAlfred your going to get pucked onYou Dumb DumbMetions of drugsand use of drugsand almost rapealso bad coping methodsand suicide. Warning are in chapters for it so read at own risk reallyIceland knows how to play the guitarIts a ThingI explainI should probably tage this as slow burnMaybe - Freeform
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2018-01-25Updated:2019-02-25Words:37240Chapters:18/?Comments:3Kudos:26Bookmarks:3Hits:553
      Baby please don't leave me
      Hetaliafan2000
          Summary:
              Emil didn't want to be here, not in this country, not in this house, and not in this school. but here is his and he cant change it. but maybe that cute blonde kid that sits in front of him will change his mind. follow Emil as he tries to get through school, a crush(because that's what it is) and meeting up with old ex? uh oh.
  Notes:
      Chapter updates may be slow but i hope you enjoy this.NamesMathias: DenmarkLukas: NorwayBerwald: SwedenTina: Female FinlandEndride: Oc ScandinaviaEmil: IcelandLilly: LiechtensteinVash: Switzerland
      Chapter 1: Welcome to America Emil.
    Chapter Text
    Anyone that looked at him would be able to tell that he was mad. Maybe it was the cold face that he had, even though half of it was covered by black sunglasses. It could also be that little movement showed that he wanted to be anywhere but here, in this crowded airport. It could also be the way he was dressed in black skin tight jeans and had laced up white high heeled boots that hugged his legs until they ended just under his knees. Either way it was clear that he didn't want to be here and he wanted to show that.He sighed looking around before looking down at his phone to check the time. They were either late or just not coming. The they he was talking about was his oh so loving father, the great big brother he had and the puppy that was his half brother. Truthfully he didn't really have a problem with his half brother, or at least no more than he did his father and brother, but there was just some things that you never get over.  And Emil didn't think he would ever get over those months that it took for the divorce to go through.He looked up when he heard his name being yelled. Then he felt dread well up in him as he saw Mathias, who stood out in the sea of people wearing suits in his black jeans, red hoodie, and his bright blonde hair that didn't know what gravity was, waving his hands all around grinning and looking straight at him. He had to spend who knows how long with this god damn puppy, and know doubt the others were going to be just like him, or worse.Thankfully it looked like the others weren't here so he wouldn't want to kill himself in public. Walking over he made sure he had everything, his two bags and his guitar, and hissed at his half brother, “Will you stop that, you are so embarrassing for a twenty three year old.”While Mathias didn't stop grinning he did stop waving his arms around, to give him a hug. It was crushing, like one would expect from a mother who was seeing her son or daughter after years of them being on a war front. Emil was pressed against Mathias and was so uncomfortable it wasn't even funny, his sunglasses were crooked and painfully pressed against his face. As Emil was trying to get away from Mathias, Mathias was yelling in his ear, “Hi Emil! Wow you have grown up from seven years old. Man I can't wait for Lukas and dad to see you they will be so shocked!”Emil mumbled a sarcastic “can't wait” as he pushed away from Mathias. Finally being let go, he fixed his clothing and sunglasses, and thew a dirty look at Mathias. “Can we just go, I want to be out of here as soon as possible,” he said, after he made sure he was a good distance away from Mathias’ hugs.Mathias grinned and lead him to the door that lead outside. He apparently remembered that Emil was an albino because he stepped out first and open up an umbrella that he hadn't noticed when he was getting attacked by hugs. The grin that Mathias aimed at him as he handed the umbrella to him made Emil forgive him just a little bit, after all he couldn't hate someone that remembered that he was sensitive to the sun even though it's been almost ten years since he last saw Mathias.When they got to the car, a dark red that shined in the sun, Mathias opened up the trunk and helped put the bags in while Emil put his case in back wanting to keep an eye on it. Then they both got in and made themselves comfortable. The inside of the car was surprisingly clean, he would have thought that Mathias let his car get dirty and wouldn't have bothered to clean it up, he was wrong apparently. The sets were black leather and were firm when he sat in them. It was a nice car all together, and Emil was pleasantly surprised.“Better to get comfortable, and make sure you are buckled, it's going to be a long ride for you, if you aren't use to four hour rides. Don't worry though, I can play music or you can nap.”Emil simply shrugged and put his feet on the seat, putting his earphones in and making sure the hood on his jacket was covering him. Mathias didn't say anything to his silence, just turned the car on and carefully backed out of the parking place.  Like Mathias said it would be long to someone who want use to four hour rides. It was fine for him because when he was fifteen he had convinced the cute Swiss transfer student to go on a roadtrip across the island when the summer had hit. They had spent a whole month just them and his sister, who he wouldn't leave in the small apartment by herself which was fine for him because she was a cutie too just more innocent, and they would spend hours of the day in the car. Of course it was also true for the nights, sometimes they were so far out that there wasn't any place to stay for the night, so they would lay the passenger seat all the way down, as far as they could get it to go with all their stuff, and have Lilly, his cute Swiss's sister, have that as a makeshift bed. Then they would spend the night hours in the roof taking turns sleeping, and when neither of them were sleeping they simply admire the night sky and talk.However like all things it had to end, so they drove back and Emil said goodbye to them at the airport as the boarded the plane. Then he spent the rest of the summer doing what he always did, party and sleep and just try to have fun, and ignore his oh so caring mother when she was there.Anyway Emil ended up falling asleep the first hour of the dive, then when he woke up there was a soft pale silver blanket over him, that he was so stealing because holy shit it was soft, and they were just pulling into a driveway. He uncurled himself and laid his feet down onto the floor. He looked out the window and saw a wild garden full of plants and flowers, they were in front of what looked like a three story house. Mathias looked at him and smiled, handing Emil the umbrella he said, “Just in time, we are home, it looks like dad and Lukas aren't here yet but I can still show you around the house and get you something to eat if you want.”Emil was still blinking the sleep out of his eyes but he nodded at Mathias and got out of the car, making sure to get his guitar case and grab the blanket. Mathias had the trunk open already and both of them grabbed a suitcase and headed for the porch. It took Mathias a minute to open up the door but when he did Emil was greeted to an empty house, just like Mathias predicted.Walking in he saw he was in a living room. To the left there was a stair
case that went up, and to the right was a couch that could fit at least three people. Along with that there was a couple of large chairs that could obviously lean back and looked soft enough to sleep in. There was also a large TV that was mounted to the wall in front of the couches and chairs, with a remote being on a glass coffee table in front of the TV.Connected to the living-room was the kitchen, there was no wall to separate the two rooms but it was quite obviously with the table and chairs being in front of marble counters and clean stove. Mathias shut the door behind them and started to show him around, making him leave his stuff there until the walked up the stairs. “So this is the living-room and that's the kitchen, dad has an office down here that way and there are stairs for the basement that way too. We keep things like unopened boxes of soda, cleaning supplies, and our washing and drying machine.”Mathias lead him up stairs and started to point at doors, “The first one to out left is the bathroom, the one across from it is Lukas’s room. Then you got mine next to his, dads is next to mine, and across fro. That will be yours. One of my friends live here with his girlfriend and they got the room next to your, I hope you don't mind, they tend to not be here during the day, they are usually at work or school when its time to go, and so you will only see them at dinner time most likely.”Emil nodded and walked towards what Mathias said was his room, looking in he saw that it had one window that had a curtain and blinds over it, so hardly any light come through. There was a bed that was against the wall to the right and a closet on the other side. He walked in a little more and set down his bag on the floor, Mathias doing the same before backing out to the door. “It's not much but we figured that you could decorate it how you wanted it when you go here. Dad wants to take you out to the hardware storey so you can pick out what color paint you want, heads up he is also going to make it a bonding activity for the four of us,” he shrugged and continued when Emil gave him a questioning look, “I figured it might be weird for you to suddenly spend time with us, so I figured that i would give you a warning.”Emil eyed Mathias for a moment, before sitting on the bed. Looking around he said, “Thanks then, and this is fine.”It was short but what do you say to someone you only meet almost ten years ago and only for a couple of weeks. Apparently Mathias could guess that he was having trouble because he didn't do anything except say, “Well if you need anything you can come ask me, I will be down stairs. If you are hungry we have lots of food and you can come down anytime.”Emil nodded and watched as he walked out closing the door behind him. He sighed and flopped the rest of himself down on the bed and stored at the ceiling for a moment, then got up and took off his boots. He got back on the bed, putting his back to the wall and sat with his legs crossed simply thinking.He knew that he had to spend the summer, or what was left seeing as there was only two and a half weeks left, and then he had to go to school. And since he promised his stepdad, who he got along with better then he did his mom and therefore tended to listen to him more then he did her, that he wouldn't drop out or get himself kicked out on purpose, he couldn't leave. Really he would give anything to be back home in the small apartment that her had had with mom and his step dad. But no he was here, in a country he didn't know, with people hadn't seen since he was seven, and so out of place in this obviously rich area it wasn't even funny.He sighed again and slid to the side now laying down on the bed. Closing his eyes, he thought about a time where he didn't hurt as much as he drifted to sleep.   He didn't go back home. He never made anyone angry enough to send him back, then again he never tried to, he didn’t see the point. He knew that should he get sent back he would have to find his own place to live, his mother made it very clear that should he get in enough trouble to get sent back, she didn't want to ever see him again. It had hurt, she was his mother but apparently that wouldn’t stop her from disowning him.Anyway, when he work up again on that first day he walked down stairs after he put on his cute white ankle boots. When he put his foot on the finale step he was met with a rather warm welcome. Mathias was sitting on the couch and when Emil walked down he waved at him but otherwise didn't do anything. Besides him there were only two other people in the room,One was a female that couldn't have been taller than he was when he was barefoot. She had short blond hair and pretty blue eyes. When she had looked at him she smiled and shook his hand in a tight grip. “Hello! You must be Emil, Mathias had said that he picked you up earlier. It's nice to meet you, my name is Tina Väinämöinen,” she said as she shook his hand. She then gestured to the other person in the room. “This is my boyfriend, Berwald Oxenstierna.”Berwald was a man who had to be at least six foot. He had blonde hair and blue eyes that were covered by glasses. His face didn't show much emotion, but Emil could see it soften when he looked at Tina. Berwald shook his hand once with a hand shattering grip and a nod of his head, before he went back to cooking.Just after introductions the front door opened. A man stepped in carrying bags of food and almost immediately Mathias and the others went to help. Having nothing to do, plus it was only polite, Emil went with them. The man called out, “Go get the other stuff from the trunk I got this,” before he walked past.It only took one trip for them to get it all inside, everyone taking at least four bags. When they got them all in Emil let himself get directed on where the food went. Finally with everything put away, the man thanked them and got a good look at Emil.Emil too got a good look. The man had bright white colored hair that couldn't seem to decide if it wanted to curl or spike out, causing each piece of hair to be different. He looked to be around Berwald’s height and was clearly muscular in the arms. Staring at him, Emil only had the vaguest of an idea of who he was. But he knew by process of elimination that this was either his father or Lukas. And since last he knew Lukas never expected to be any higher than five foot ten, and no he didn't stalk his media account before he was sent here what were you talking about, it had to be his father, Endride AveryanovFather looked at him with wide eyes, before he could say anything Emil was grabbed and pulled into a hug that was similar to the one Mathias had given him earlier. Emil huffed and wondered what it was with people that they just had to crush him. Was it a way to torment him? He didn’t know but he wanted it to stop.When father finally let him go he put a couple of kisses on his forehead and lead him to one side of the couch. He then started asking questions like “What is you favorite color?”, and “What’s your favorite food?” it was endless and while he answered he was seriously thinking he should have just never came down. It didn’t help that Mathias was looking at him with amusement every few questions.It was like that all through the night, but worse, because soon after the fiftieth question, his brother Lukas had walked through the door and started to ask questions of his own. The difference was that Lukas asked the more intruding questions. They were like “Do you have a girlfriend?”, or “No? What about a boyfriend?” It was awkward for him, and it appears that it was only him that was awkward.It was after dinner that he escaped from the questions. He had yawned and Lukas and Endride immediately told him that he should go to bed, they had after all kept him up late with questions that they could ask tomorrow. As they lead him to the stairs Endride kept on saying how he was “So sorry for keeping him up.” Lukas just kept silent, and when he was about to go into his room, he surprised Emil with a hug. It was different from Mathias and Endride, this was less crushing and more holding, it reminded him of the ones that their mom would give. Tentatively he put his arms Lukas and hugged him back. Emil wasn’t use to giving hugs, the last hug he had given anyone was to his mom just after father, Lukas and Mathias left to go get on the plane.Finally Emil put his arms back down and Lukas followed suit. He turned around and was going to go back down stairs before he turned towards Emil. “Welcome home little brother, it’s good that you are here,” he said before continuing back down stairs.Emil stared at his back for a moment before he nodded to his father, who was standing right there and was watching him, and walked into his “room.” He slumped back against his door and sighed, was this going to continue all though his time here? God he hoped not. He didn’t think he could deal with it if it was.The sun was down and the moon up so he walked towards the window and opened it. There was a small roof under it that lead to the bigger roof that was apart of the whole house. He put his foot on it then his other one and then he was outside. He carefully made his way over to the rest of the roof, when he was sure he wasn’t going to fall off because he had no room he sat down.Sighing he laid on his back and looked at the stars. He wonder how everyone was, he wondered if Lilly was still being protected by Vash, probably. He wondered if mom was happy with  him gone. He wondered about a lot of things, laying up there. He laid there till the sun looked like it was coming and and then he went inside. He fell on his bed and threw the covers on him and fell asleep for however long he could.  Like Mathias had said, when he woke up a few hours later and walked down in clean clothes and a different pair of boots, father had the whole day planned. He let Emil have breakfast and then they spent three hours picking out and buying paint and tools to use them. And when they got back to the house he had all four of them paint the room. Emil ended up picking a dark blue color for the wall and was going to keep the ceiling white. Endride had nodded and smiled, glad that he was participating in making his room well his. Emil didn’t have the heart to tell him that he wanted to be anywhere but here.The painting took about four hours, and it was only the fact that Mathias was doing his best to make it not awkward that it didn’t pass by in silence. After the first few minutes of getting the room ready to paint he stop and went to his room and then came back. In his hands was a small radio he walked over to the window, which they had pinned up so the curtain wasn’t in their way of painting but still blocked the sun from coming in, and turned it on and turned it to some pop station.After that as some recent singer’s song came on, they worked even as Mathias tried to get them to dance to the music as they painted. More often Lukas would roll his eyes and hip check Mathias out of his way, father would shake his head and do some old dance move that would have Mathias laugh. When Mathias tried to get him to dance he shook his head and continued to paint, it wasn’t till Mathias started to try and tickle him that Emil got annoyed.
If it wasn’t for Lukas stopping them, they would have gotten in a paint war with Mathias, as it was they were told to paint different walls away from each other and they spent the rest of the time with blue paint on their face and arms.When they were done they all cleaned up quick and went to have a late lunch. Said lunch was only boxed macaroni and cheese and cups of milk. They sat around the table and when they were done Emil learned one of the rules in the house, never let the three do the dishes together. It always ended in destator and at some point water got ever where. Emil was so shocked that everything became such a mess in the time that he went to change that he kicked them out of the kitchen. So for the rest of the day as they waited for the paint to dry so they could put all the furniture back where they were, Emil cleaned the kitchen. He ended up changing back to the clothing that he was in when he was painting, and started to clean, all while throwing dirty looks at the three that were in the living room, the three of them giving him their very different puppy eyes.When he was done it was about six in the afternoon, deciding to pay Tina and Berwald back for cooking dinner, he asked if it was okay to start dinner. Father had shrugged and said he didn’t mind, the other two weren’t even paying attention at all, to busy playing some video game.He ended up making simple pasta with shrimp, peas, and some cream sauce. Father had offered to help and while Emil didn’t need it he did let him sit in the kitchen. When father had offered to answer any questions that Emil had, Emil started asking about his uncle and his family. Emil knew some things about them, and though he hadn’t talked to his uncle since he the last family christmas they had when he was six he had talked to some of his kids. Mainly it was Gilbert his fellow albino and older cousin, but last he had heard Gilbert’s little brother had gotten hurt and they ended up moving to america, but that was four years ago and Emil had lost contact with Gilbert.So as he cooked he listened to father talk about how they were doing. It was nice, and different from what he would do in Iceland. If he was in Iceland he would either be doing homework and then cooking just enough food for himself, or out and partying, spending his nights in whoever’s bed he could charm his way into that night.When the food was done so was the paint, so Emil made sure that the food would stay warm and that nothing would catch on fire and helped move the furniture back. By the time they were done, the food wasn’t so cold that they had to warm it up and Tina and Berwald were back. So he gathered everyone up and when they were all sitting they ate. And after Tina and Berwald cleaned up as Emil went to bed, exhausted from the day.For the rest of the summer Emil days were practical the same, get up get dressed and do whatever father had planed, and if he didn’t have anything planned then Emil would do whatever Mathias talked him into doing. Then he either made dinner or lunch with whoever was there at the time. The only thing that was worth mentioning was that Emil and father when to sign Emil up in the school that he was going to, and even then it was just routine thing that he had to. Really if Emil had to point out any time that was worth to mention, it would be that he had ran into a pretty cute boy when everyone in the house when school supply shopping. Emil didn’t get to talk to him but when he saw him from a distance he knew that had he found him in Iceland he would have done anything to get into his bed. With the blonde hair and toned body he was cute, and Emil really wanted to know his name. But he didn’t know how father would react if he saw him flirting with another boy, so he suppressed his urge and ignored it.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
  Comments
          MiaMiele, AdiposeWalksAway, Pure_Luck, LicoricePrince, Caesar_Chonii, MaterialAtmosphere, MariG_S2, The_Flower_Dragon, etheria_uwu, and Arlewena
             as well as 
          16 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
