      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  This work could have adult content. If you proceed you have agreed that you are willing to see such content.
    Proceed
    Go Back
  If you accept cookies from our site and you choose "Proceed", you will not be asked again during this session (that is, until you close your browser). If you log in you can store your preference and never be asked again.
      ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ ⁽ᵀᴹᴺᵀ⁾ (Book One)
      by
      Hydrakinz
      Fandoms:
      TMNT - Fandom, TMNT2k14, TMNT2k16, BayverseTMNT
 Explicit
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 M/M
 Complete Work
    02 Dec 2019
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsLeonardo/Raphael (TMNT) Leonardo/Michelangelo (TMNT) Raphael/Leonardo (TMNT) Donatello/Michelangelo (TMNT) Leonardo/Donatello (TMNT) Raphael/Donatello (TMNT) Raphael/Michelangelo (TMNT) Michelangelo/Donatello (TMNT) Donatello/Leonardo/Michelangelo/Raphael (TMNT)Leonardo (TMNT) Raphael (TMNT) Michelangelo (TMNT) Donatello (TMNT) Splinter (TMNT) Casey Jones (TMNT) April O'Neil (TMNT)Romance Drama &amp; Romance Turtlecest (TMNT) Fanfiction TMNT Slow Burn Fantasy Fiction Blood and Gore Character Death Explicit Sexual Content Explicit Language Rape Terrapin Anal Sex Anal Fingering Oral Sex Gay Gay Sex Eventual Smut Eventual Romance I'm Bad At Tagging
    Summary
      " ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ "ᴵˢ ᵇᵃˢᵉᵈ ᵘᵖᵒⁿ ᶜᵒᵐᵖˡᵉᵗᵉ ᶠⁱᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ ᵃⁿᵈ ⁱᵈᵉᵃ'ˢ ᴴʸᵈʳᵃᵏⁱⁿᶻ, ᴴᵃˢ ᶜᵒˡˡᵉᶜᵗᵉᵈ ᵒᵛᵉʳ ᵗʰᵉ ᵖˡᵒᵗ ᵒᶠ ʰᵉʳ ᶠᵃᵛᵒʳⁱᵗᵉ ᶠᵃⁿᵈᵒᵐ ᵒᶠ ᵃˡˡ ᵗⁱᵐᵉ, ᵀᴹᴺᵀITS OFFICIAL, BOOK THREE IS COMING!Read Book Two, ( Pick Your Poison ) now!This Story Contains #Turtlecest. ໓໐ຖ't likē, ໓໐ຖ't rēค໓.After Raphael and Leonardo think that their brothers are dead from a warehouse explosion, they mourn the deaths of what remained, including the lie and betrayal of their father faking his own death to keep them safe. Raph and Leo try to move on, but more than twenty surprises hit them in the face like a ton of bricks when Donnie and Mike return to the lair after a fight for adventure. Feelings begin to bloom over the loss. And drama forms and rains over their heads like a storm.Falling In Love With Your Own Sibling Was Never going to be easy-- but getting them to love you back was a challenge-- Only in reality-- they all loved each other just as equal. Read ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ to find out what unfolds right before their eyes, and to be there every step of the way as these four brothers discover what true love and sacrifice truly means to have exactly what you want.
    Series
          Part 1 of The Poison Trilogy
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    194,454
    Chapters:
    51/51
    Comments:
    20
    Kudos:
    41
    Bookmarks:
    5
  Hits:
  1747
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
