      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Jessie
2. Avoidance
3. Responsibility
4. Adapting
5. Arrival
6. Compromised
7. Astrid
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warnings:
               Graphic Depictions Of ViolenceRape/Non-Con
              Category:
               Multi
              Fandom:
               Critical Role (Web Series)
              Relationships:
               Mollymauk Tealeaf/Caleb WidogastCaduceus Clay/Caleb WidogastFjord/Jester LavorreBeauregard Lionett/YashaYeza Brenatto/Nott | Veth Brenatto
              Characters:
               Mollymauk TealeafCaleb WidogastCaduceus ClayFjord (Critical Role)Jester LavorreBeauregard LionettYasha (Critical Role)Nott | Veth BrenattoYeza BrenattoThe Traveler (Critical Role)Marion Lavorre | Ruby of the SeaMelora the Wildmother (Critical Role)Trent IkithonAvantikaFrumpkin (Critical Role)Uk'otoa (Critical Role)Essek Thelyss
              Additional Tags:
               Additional Tags to ComeCollege AUPTSDMighty Neinspoiler warningreligious traumaFlashbacksFriends to familyNonbinary Mollymauk TealeafCaleb Widogast Needs a Hugmentions of abuse
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the College Nein series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2020-09-14Updated:2020-09-29Words:7494Chapters:7/?Comments:13Kudos:73Bookmarks:9Hits:1251
      Oddities [OLD FIC]
      Casual_Peppers
      Chapter 7: Astrid
          Summary:
            Caleb spots some people he hadn't seen for a long time. It brings back some old, and new, feelings.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
  The two walked in silence for a while. Caleb’s hands continued to move around in his pockets as if he could will the letter to appear. His eyes were locked on the ground, his shoes appearing in his vision briefly. He could feel Essek walking alongside him. Every so often he’d glanced to him only to receive nothing but silence. 
  “The key.”
  “What?”
  “Do you have your key? We’re almost there.”
  “Oh. Yeah of course, sorry.” He swung his bag around, pushing his hand into the small front pocket and pulling back with a key. 
  Essek nodded as they began walking up to the house. The cars were all still in the driveway and lining the adjacent street. Caleb could just barely see the lights on in the kitchen. Frumpkin disappeared from the front window to say. The motion caught his eye, causing him to smile. He moved towards the door, unlocking it. 
  “Do you want to come in?” He looked towards Essek. “I assume they’re making lunch if you’d like some-”
  “I’m fine.” Essek held up his hand. “I don’t need lunch. But, thank you.”
  “Of course.” Caleb nodded as he watched the other turn.
  He sighed quietly as the other walked away, heading back down the driveway and heading back the way he came. He shook his head and went to turn back to the door before freezing. Someone down the street had caught his eye. He turned his head to look, the man walking out of his house had drawn his attention. 
  Another person followed close behind him towards the car. They were in a deep conversation. Avidly talking as they began throwing books and bags into the backseat to head to a class. It looked like a girl and guy, though from a distance they looked like blobs. 
  However, something else caught his eyes. A man stood in the doorway to the house, an older man. He was well dressed with graying hair and wrinkles covering his face. He felt something in his stomach twitch as he watched, a feeling he hadn’t had in a long time. He could see the way he watched them, eyes locked with every action and interaction. He was watching them like they were two gazelles lost from their pack and he was the lion waiting for them to drop their guard.
  He observed, sliding his key back into his pocket. His eyes drifted back to the two getting in the car. They were also well dressed, something about the clothing brought a deep nostalgia back to him. The buttoned up shirts with a vest over them. Definitely part of the more 
    prestigious 
  group in school. The man getting into the driver's seat lifted his arm, sleeve slipping back ever so slightly to reveal a spiraling line of thin scars. The sight made Caleb's skin crawl and itch. His hand raised, carefully running over the sleeve of his jacket. His heart boomed in his chest as he reached out to open the door. 
  Suddenly, the woman's eyes drifted to his, making direct contact. The deep sadness looming over her registered in his mind. A migraine began creeping into the back of his head as they stared. He recognized her.
  “Astrid?” He felt the words leave his mouth softly without hesitation. 
  She continued to stare, frozen in her spot. Since when had they lived so close? His eyes moved back to the man in the doorway who was now also looking at him. 
    Trent. 
  He felt his body move without him wanting it to, suddenly turning and throwing the door open. He had to get out of their line of sight. His stomach turned and flipped inside of him. His hands began to shake as a crimson blush flooded into his face. He let his bag drop to the floor, beginning to tear off his coat. The house was a lot warmer than he’d remembered it.
  “Caleb?” Molly appeared in the kitchen doorway. An apron was tied tightly around their waist, already covered in crap. They watched him closely. “Everything okay?”
  Caleb didn’t respond. He couldn’t. His chest was tight, squeezing at his lungs. His throat was filling up with air yet he felt as if he couldn’t breathe. He hadn’t felt this way in a long time. He’d done everything in his power to 
    avoid 
  something like this again. He never left over the summer because of it. Now it was almost as if it was coming at him like a bunch of knives from every perceivable angle. He could barely feel the tears reach his eyes and cling to his lashes. He stared back at Molly who barely moved. He knew they couldn’t tell. A sob finally forced its way out of him. He could see Molly begin to pull off the apron.
  “Hey. Hey, Caleb-” Molly dropped it to their side, leaving it abandoned on the floor of the living room. “Caleb woah.”
  They moved towards him, grabbing him before he collapsed to the floor. This had happened once around Molly, back in highschool during exam season when they’d been out. Caleb collapsed into the other's arms, allowing himself to be held by the familiar body. Molly only allowed him to cling, rubbing his back. 
  “Okay okay,” he whispered. “I got you. I got you now.”
  “Molly?” 
  The commotion had drawn Caduceus out of the kitchen as well. He was holding a hand towel tightly, nervous. He leaned down to scoop up the apron discarded on the floor. 
  “Is everything okay?”
  “Yeah, Cad. Everything’s fine. Just overwhelmed.”
  Caleb didn’t respond, sinking more into the arms wrapped around him. He felt Frumpkin brush up against his shins, running his face into the jeans. 
  “I’ll make some tea then.”
  “Ca-”
  Before Molly could finish, Caduceus disappeared into the kitchen once more. It fell silent as they stood in the foyer. Caleb felt his grip tighten around the fabric of Molly's sweater. No words were spoken between the two. They carefully pulled him towards the kitchen as well.
  “How about we go sit down, okay? Everyone else went out to go get stuff for dinner and for their rooms and stuff. We’re home alone.”
  He nodded, looking down to Frumpkin who followed the two closely. He reached down with his free hand to scoop him up. He felt his heart relax slowly, the tears finally stopping as he held the cat close.
  “There you go. There’s Frump.” Molly carefully began to pull Caleb's hand away from him as they reached the kitchen. “Let’s sit down, okay?”
  It fell silent as the two sat down. Caduceus worked, also, in near perfect silence. The cups clinked against each other as he pulled the kettle from the stove to fill them up with the tea. He turned, setting down two of the three cups in front of the two before sitting down, himself. Caleb could feel the two watching him, eyes scanning. He stared down at the tea swirling around the cup. 
  “I saw some people today when Essek walked me home,” he whispered. “They live down the street from us. It’s this woman and man. One has this like…. This really wild white hair pushed to one side and a scar on her face and a burn mark on her neck.”
  “Oh-” Caduceus sat back slowly. “I know those two. I met them last night during a class orientation. They’re in my biology class.”
  “I’ve seen them occasionally.” Molly nodded. “They leave really early in the morning and don’t get back until late.” 
  “Yeah that’s definitely them.” Caleb sighed. “When I lived with them we always tried to leave early so we could avoid seeing him.” 
  “Him?” Molly watched him before their eyes flickered to Fumpkin, who was making his way towards them. They reached up, carefully pulling the cat into their lap. 
  “Trent-” He paused. “Trent Ikithon. He was a family friend back when my parents were alive. He took me in once they passed… And took me here to this area. We didn’t live in this house or on this street yet.. I don’t know.” 
  “Ikithon is a history teacher.” Caduceus looked at them. “He’s weird. Colton, I think, said he had him during college. Didn’t like him.”
  “He was abusive.” Caleb sat back. “Physically more than anything. He didn’t like kids, he really didn’t. I don’t know why he took us in. He was touchy feely too. His love language was hugs and gift giving but he didn’t want it to get to our heads. He never loved any of us. He just wanted us for the… the grief and support of it all. He wanted to use us for what we gave him and not for love and care. He hit us, yelled at us if we messed up.”
  “Jesus christ.” Molly sat forward. “Can’t you take him to court?”
  “I could but I don’t have evidence.” He sighed. “If I did, I would. But I don’t go to therapy either. I have nothing to prove it happened and nothing to prove I’m recovering from it. I can’t do anything about it, Molly. Even if I want to.”
  Molly sighed loudly, sitting back in their seat. Their arms crossed slowly. 
  “Caleb, what happened to you made you stronger as a person it-”
  “No,” Caleb laughed. It was a pained laugh, full of hurt. “No. I was a child. I needed to survive. I adapted to my situation and became a better person because I saw the effect that he had on us as kids. And I refuse to let others sit through and watch what I had.”
  He stood up abruptly, the chair falling back and slamming into the ground. With no words he turned and disappeared out of the room and upstairs.
  Caduceus stared blankly at the, now, upturned and empty seat. He sighed as he sat back, crossing his arms.
  “Well-” Molly whispered. “Guess we should start dinner?”
        Notes:
          Hello! Sorry this update... just didn't exist in so long, lol. I didn't mean for it to be forever before I posted! So here it is.Dun dun dunnnnnnnn-One thing I do wan't to address: I've been trying very hard to keep Molly under they/them but I keep hiccuping. I have looked through this a few times so I think we're all okay. Let me know if you see anything different!-Thank you for reading, stay safe, and wear your masks!
  Notes:
  Haha. Family is a l o o  s e term in this context isn't it?-Lowkey really excited to write this! I'm super pumped to write all the lore how I want it. This is super exciting!I'm not setting a direct amount of chapters this time, and I'm just gonna add to this as I get motivation! I really think it'll be fun to modernize these babes!-In terms of actual spoilers, I'll be acknowledging all parts of the show, including the more recent arcs. Please don't read this if you aren't caught upOr read it regardless! I can't stop you lol!-I can make a tumblr concerning this au if ya'll want me too. I can talk about the lore I'm including as well as where I see this going, updates, and more!-Uhh I think that's it for this time :D! Please leave some criticism and some questions in the comments! I read them all even if I don't respond!Thank you for reading this! Stay safe and wear ya masks babes
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the College Nein series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (1)
  Comments
          deaths_calling_card, loner_2003, strawberryriceball, CanaryCry, Lyrialuka, Bee_boy23, ShaDE_727, AspiringWarlockPatron, greatqueerator, leventhumps101, Ratpatrol, sophiabell01, TheRiverScribe, CaptainDynamic, dragonbubbles14, yelling_through_the_trees, cold_samui, G0ldenseal, GreenDrkness, Unlettered_Heathen, Drybonesoda, D1SCORD1A, EineOrchidee, evensoullivesforever, ShadowWolf64, ashley_in_the_know, KnittedOri, FallenAngeltheGay, Opus3No2, joy2live4you, NoNoSquare, and Lalaberry
             as well as 
          41 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
