      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,219  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Accidental Confessions from a teenage drama quee...
3. Free Coffee, Fibs, and a hideous mug
4. Bread and awkward questions
5. the death of a bitcheler
6. Dating For Dummies
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationships:
               Kaminari Denki/Sero HantaJirou Kyouka/Yaoyorozu MomoMidoriya Izuku/Todoroki ShoutoBakugou Katsuki/Kirishima Eijirou
              Characters:
               Kaminari DenkiSero HantaBakugou KatsukiAshido MinaKirishima EijirouKaminari Denki's Familya bunch of other bnha characters at random intervals
              Additional Tags:
               roadtripping is gayyes sero has a wood sided station wagonsero hanta smells like incense and nice vibesGay crisisbisisHeavy piningfamily bullshitfamily feud but gayer and more intensewould you kiss your homie to convince his famhomo homieseventual gayhelp themits the most wonderful time of the queertake my tagging privileges awayquirkless auholiday fuckeryits never too early for xmashomies to homosdenki accidentally comes out
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2018-08-31Updated:2019-02-10Words:5439Chapters:6/?Comments:31Kudos:112Bookmarks:17Hits:1342
      Incense and David Bowie
      bubblescum
      Chapter 6: Dating For Dummies
          Summary:
            i have no excuse im just really fucking bad at managing my time ft. a little angst bc i gave denki adhd and dyslexia since its fuckinuhhhhh quirkless AU B)
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    He stepped out of the Uber he had called for himself- huffing softly. He absentmindedly adjusted his hair, fingers playing with his bangs- a nervous habit he'd developed quite a while back. Wait. 
  Why the fuck was he nervous? 
It was just Sero! They'd been friends for a long time and it was all pretend. He shouldn't be so worked up. However his heart wasn't listening to his brain whatsoever in fact it was pounding against his chest like a rabbit trapped in a small box. He crossed the sidewalk and approached the giant double doors of the public library. A clammy hand grabbed the large metal handle and with a deep inhale- swung it open. He had forgotten to exhale until a young woman at the front desk spoke up."May I help you sir?" Her eyes flitted over his choice of dress with a twinge of silent distaste and boy did he notice."U-uh... yeah actually. Have you seen a dude with like- shoulder length black hair? Super tall and beanpole status-" He was rambling shit.The now extremely categorical disdain shone through brighter. She scoffed. "Yeah he's sat at a table in the studying section. Try to keep it... respectable in here. There are folks not comfortable with... your boys' type."He bristled considerably but was never one for confrontation. So this is probably why Sero commented on her staring. He probably mentioned waiting for him. He swallowed hard."Have a nice day."He kept his head down, shuffling quickly past her as his eyes prickled with tears in the slightest. He spotted Sero and his heart swelled. He was bent over a desk apparently reading. A half finished Egg McMuffin sat on the table next to him. His eyebrows were furrowed and his hair was in a ponytail. A few pieces fell out of it and hung- framing his face gorgeously. No homo though- His brain tried to jump in.He neared the boy, shaking his head quickly as to make those thoughts go away. He didn't need those right now. As he got closer he tilted his head a little to see what it was that Sero was so focused on reading. An adoring giggle almost bubbled out of his throat as he saw the title on the bright yellow cover.
  "DATING FOR DUMMIES."
He came up quietly, a hand placed on the table to the left of Sero, the other on his hip. He bit his lip still trying to suppress the laughter."Hey dummy." He jokingly cooed.Sero startled and almost ripped the page he was on, trying to slam it closed and hide it as quick as possible. His face flushed a brilliant red as he tried to smoothly place his elbow over the title and rest his head on the same fist.He cleared his throat."H-Hey dude! I was uh- just reading something yknow? N-Not anything important pfft heck no-"Those dark brown eyes looked everywhere but Denki."Oh no totally bro. Nothing important at all! I gotcha." He smirked. "So how's the research going?"Sero huffed, willing for the blood to drain from his face but as he looked at Denki- he felt it practically drip down his neck and chest. He looked- so fucking good- how the fuck was he supposed to play pretend with this shit happening.Kaminari noticed but he wasn't going to say anything. He needed Sero to stay with this plan. On the subject of outfits though- Sero? Whew chilay. He had on checkered vans and a pair of black ripped jeans. Bunched up at his elbows was a tan baggy sweater. He looked a devastating amount of both adorable and dangerously hot. It felt hard to breathe for a moment but of course he tried to salvage both the situation and his own pride by simply pulling out a chair and pulling out his phone. He pulled up Facebook and scooted closer."Class is in session Mr. Sero."------------------------------------After a good few hours of Hanta learning basically all there is to know about Denki's family and a few dirty looks from the librarian, it was time to head out. It was a nice afternoon- the breeze cool and calming as it brushed through the trees like a jade comb. Denki had his hands in his pockets, eyes closed as he enjoyed the feel. He felt someone nudge his shoulder and he opened his eyes to see Sero imitating him and grinning down at him like he had won the fucking lottery. He looked goofy as hell but so sunny that Denki just had to send an equal smile back. "Thirsty?"Denki's brows furrowed."What?"Sero chuckled."Not like that. Damn Kami get your head out of the gutter. I'm craving some Boba right now and I wanna know if you'll come? My treat."That damn grin was still there. Kaminari found himself flushing softly at both the comment and the suggestion- but simply shrugged and turned his face down to the concrete in an attempt to hide it."Sick!"------------------------------------The Boba cafe was really cute and modern. Most of the furniture was white and shiny with dark wood here and there. He found himself sat at a two person table across from Sero as they sipped at their tea.He had ordered a lemon milk tea with generic tapioca pearls and Sero had gotten an orange milk tea with mango popping boba. He sucked one into his mouth and chewed it absentmindedly- mind wandering a little. A throat cleared from in front of him."You good dude?" A more lopsided and concerned beam than earlier's.He snapped out of his trance- the edge of his mouth quirking into a small smile in reassurance."Totally dude- just dumbass thoughts. You know how my brain is." He joked in self deprecation.Sero's smile faded; his voice softening as he pushed at Denki's shoulder tenderly."Hey. You're not a dumbass- no matter what people say to you. You're a really smart guy! Your disorders don't define you dude. That's shit you were born with."He sighed in response."Hey. I mean it. Don't brush me of ma-""Ok! I get it! I'm not dumb... whatever." Fuck,, god knows he didn't mean to snap at the guy.Sero winced, instantly silencing as he took another sip of his drink. Denki's heart ached with guilt. The silence dragged on for a while- choking Denki as he fidgeted."Look dude I- I'm sorry I didn't mean to-""It's fine! Sorry I pushed you man." And there was that fucking adorable smile again... even though it felt a little forced this time."Wanna try mine? Popping boba is really fucking cool."Denki eyed him skeptically. He usually only went with the typical chewy shit- he was a little bit curious. He nodded.Sero never really stopped grinning at him did he? He offered the drink across the table. Denki simply leaned forwards and took a sip. He wasn't thinking about any of the implications this caused. He wasn't thinking about how he was drinking out of what Sero just had his mouth on or that he was drinking it while Sero was still holding it for him. He rarely thought it seemed.One of the boba shot through the straw and into his mouth and he pulled away. He sat there for a moment before finally biting into it. It exploded on his tongue- the juice bursting on his tastebuds. He squeaked in surprise before swallowing it. It was... actually kind of epic?"Did you like it?" Sero asked; head tilted."Yeah! That was actually really fucking cool!" Leave it to Denki to get hyped over something like that.He received exactly what you'd expect from Sero for that cute reaction.---------------------------------------------He had called another Uber- waiting on the curb with the taller boy. "Hey-"Denki looked up at the sound of the dark haired boy's voice."I had.. a lot of fucking fun today. I know we didn't really do much but- I really enjoyed spending today with you dude."Kaminari felt his heart swell- before a pang of hurt hit as well. 
  He needed to get home and change out of his-
He refused to ruin the moment.He took in a strained breath and gritted his teeth at another twinge."Yeah dude! I- uh... had a lot of fun with you too!"The Uber pulled up- saved by the fucking bell.He waved to Sero."See you later dude."
        Notes:
          hopefully ill have an actual update schedule soon and im rlly fucking sorry this chap is so dry im terrible @ fillersALSO TEEHEE WHAT A TWIST?? WHATS denkis dealio hm? ur free to guess uwu
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (8)
  Comments
          evardae, Jayden_the_Rat, uwuravity, MasterAster, AppleBot, toosofttobutch, Asdeadascanbe, Lee_Da_Dee, rusty_wings, Mehtrainzz, UnbalancedCalm, incognitoduck, thatgooncierra, teenage_dystopian_book_nerd, teaenem, kousanoes, Weirdo_Girl1066, uNspOken101, Ineba, Ro29, truncatedGrip, Bluberru, SuperNova_StarGirl, WildChildHaru, Tyoka, gremlin_rights, Mwah_html, acentedGuerrera, The_Armada_of_Ships, actualcactus, merwe, Yuri23, magixmerlin, pelloranchi, bakabunny, 4bees5, KetsuKetsu, ElvisTheUnicorn, 0maega, New_Prussia, pikachudenki, pockethans, Shiggy_Chan, theshyestviolet, SilverKing14, Crossblaze, TheyMayNeverKnow, Raeminnie, KaluMoon, noorasdandekar, 
               and 6 more users
            honii_bee, the_voif, jo_uwu, memequeen1127, daleforcewind and the_egg_man
             as well as 
          56 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
