      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
5. Chapter 5
6. Chapter 6
7. Chapter 7
8. Chapter 8
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Not Rated
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               F/MGen
              Fandom:
               One Piece
              Relationships:
               Monkey D. Luffy/Portgas D. AceMonkey D. Luffy &amp; SaboMonkey D. Luffy &amp; Portgas D. Ace &amp; SaboMonkey D. Luffy &amp; Mugiwara Kaizoku | Strawhat PiratesAkagami no Shanks | Red-Haired Shanks &amp; Monkey D. LuffyPortgas D. Ace &amp; Whitebeard PiratesLily Luna Potter/Monkey D. DragonAlvida/Buggy (One Piece)Akagami no Shanks | Red-Haired Shanks/MakinoMonkey D. Luffy/Portgas D. Ace/SaboDracule Mihawk/Dominique Weasley
              Characters:
               Monkey D. LuffySabo (One Piece)Portgas D. AceMonkey D. GarpMonkey D. DragonMugiwara Kaizoku | Strawhat PiratesWhitebeard PiratesKoala (One Piece)Hack (One Piece)Nami (One Piece)Vinsmoke SanjiUsopp (One Piece)Roronoa ZoroTony Tony ChopperNefertari ViviNico RobinFranky (One Piece)Brook (One Piece)Jinbei (One Piece)Akagami no Shanks | Red-Haired ShanksAkagami Kaizoku | Red-Hair PiratesMakino (One Piece)Dadan (One Piece)Dadan FamilyTrafalgar D. Water LawSilvers RayleighBuggy (One Piece)Smoker (One Piece)Tashigi (One Piece)Alvida (One Piece)Coby (One Piece)Helmeppo (One Piece)Woop Slap (One Piece)Dominique WeasleyDracule MihawkLuna LovegoodCassiopeia Black
              Additional Tags:
               Female Monkey D. LuffySmarter LuffyAdorable Monkey D. LuffyVoice of All ThingsLegilimencyEmpathPowerful LuffyMonkey D. Luciella has magic cause she's Lily Luna's daughterD's bring stormsBeware of the Ds. the Tenryuubito will learn to be afraid of the Monkey Clanthe will of DA true DHakiRokushikiDon't mess with Lucy's loved onesThe Strawhats are offlimitsSo are her Ace and SaboDie Teach Die!Alive Thatch!Alive Ace!Damn you Akainu!Seer Luna LovegoodSilvers Rayleigh is really Alphard BlackWizards and Witches have long livesSecret Bandit Queen DadanSemi-platonic lifemate Sabo or maybe more?
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Where the Sea leads us series Next Work →
        Collections:
        Time Travel and World Travel
    Stats:
      Published:2018-10-01Updated:2020-07-01Words:64264Chapters:8/?Comments:101Kudos:604Bookmarks:235Hits:11280
      Tales of the Pirate King: Anarchy
      kuroneko1815
      Chapter 8
          Summary:
            The bounties are released, Buggy makes a reappearance, Strawhat Lucy goes down in history as the most badass and fated one (at least in Barto's eyes)... and Ace may or may not want to kill Buggy. Oh and Lucy sorta-kinda gets a dragon that isn't her dad but was her mom's partner?
        Notes:
          Also known as the ending of the East Blue Saga. Or Smoker thinks Lucy is a little girl. As always, One Piece is not mine.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Ace sighed as he re-read his mother's journal and actually took note of the names she'd mentioned and true enough, Buggy was mentioned there quite a lot as something of a surrogate son/little brother alongside Shanks. He now wondered how he'd forgotten about the blue-haired clown who seemed to be quite as colorful as his co-cabin boy. But then again, it was hard to forget about someone as loud and in your face as Shanks especially since the man had chosen to go all out rather than fade into relative obscurity.The straw hats discovered her magic by accident. It was her turn to do the dishes which she’d much rather not and had used magic to do the chores, she even decided to be nice and clean the floors and windows. And okay, so she had been a bit distracted by her mental conversation with Ace that she hadn’t noticed her crewmates walking in. “Man, it’s too bad that Clown face is going to be staying in the East Blue. I really wanna ask him about my Mom.” Ace said.Lucy took a sip of her hot chocolate and smiled.  “I’m sure you’ll run into him one of these days.”  She reassured him as she flicked the wand over to the mop and bucket before it began to dance around the room.  “Maybe ask Shanks about him again?” 
   “I just might. I still don’t understand how I forgot about him, he’s in Mom’s journals a lot.” 
   “Yeah but he’s also done a lot to fade into the background. Unless it was one of the old-timers, I doubt anyone would know or remember him as being part of the Pirate King’s crew.” 
 “I guess you’re right, maybe I should…”  Whatever else Ace would have said was cut off as the sound of glass breaking and a high pitched shriek came from behind her. She turned around to see Usopp and Nami clutching each other with terrified faces as Sanji and Zoro appeared.“G-g-g-GHOST!!!” The two said together as their eyes danced around the room. “Oops! Sorry, Ace. I gotta go.”  She said as she smiled at her crew. “What’s wrong?”“What’s wrong?” Nami repeated as she separated herself from Usopp. “Why are the cleaning supplies moving by itself?”“Oh.” Lucy blinked. “That?”“Yes!” Everyone said indignantly.Lucy smiled. “That’s magic! I’m a witch!”“A witch? I thought you were a rubber person? Did you eat the magic devil fruit?” Usopp asked as he glanced around the room with awe instead of fright.She laughed at them. “No silly, I’m a witch, my mom was a witch, so were her parents. We were all born with magic.”Her crew stepped into the galley, eyes glancing in all directions as plates flew in the air before being dried by a dishtowel. Lucy flicked her hand as the plates stacked themselves neatly onto the table. Another flick of her hand and the floor dried. The whole room was sparkling.“Let me get this straight.” Nami said slowly as she stalked towards Lucy. “You’re a witch and so is your mother’s entire family… what? Is the whole of Dawn Island magical?”Lucy shook her head. “Nope, my mom isn’t from Dawn. Don’t really know where her home is, just know that she’s from a wealthy family.”“Which is why you didn’t even think about giving me the money. You’re already rich.” Her navigator pointed out.“Nah,” Lucy said waving her hand. “I really don’t care about the money, besides, that wasn’t all the money that I had. I’ve had some… alternate streams of revenue since I was a child, I have enough money from there.”Usopp appeared in front of her, his long nose pressed against hers. “Back up, rewind, time out!” He said. “Let’s get back to the magic!”Lucy grinned as she screamed. “Wingardium leviosa!” Wand pointed at Usopp and he started levitating off the ground.There were laughs as Usopp yelped. “Yeah magic.”“Anyway, I got the newscoo, they’re covering the Fall of Arlong Park.” Sanji said as he gave her the newscoo just as five pieces of paper slipped out. And at the very top was a picture of herself, smiling that  D.  shaped grin. “Congrats, Lu.”  Ace said through the bond.  “You have your first bounty and I’m pretty sure this is one of the highest bounties released in the East.” WANTEDDEAD OR ALIVESTRAW HAT LUCY50,000,000She whistled as she picked up the papers. Pirate Hunter Roronoa Zoro was worth 40,000,000, Sanji was worth 30,000,000, Usopp and Nami were worth 20,000,000 each. Usopp and Nami clung to each other once more as they flipped out over their bounties while Lucy read the article about Arlong’s capture. And, yep, their bounties were based on the ranks of the players and their own reputations. As the Captain, she was given the highest bounty, Zoro as the notorious and bloodthirsty bounty hunter and second in command had been given the second highest. Sanji was known as the Sous Chef of the Baratie and another power player given Zeff’s former occupation. Usopp and Nami were relative unknowns who no one could account for when they’d joined her.“Well look at that, I think this calls for a celebration.” Lucy said before a wave of depression fell over her. “What’s wrong, Sanji?”He held up his bounty and everyone laughed as they saw the picture, it seemed he was the only one that they couldn’t take a photo off because his picture was a crudely drawn representation. She went to her cook, ignoring Ace’s growl, and patted his head. “It’s okay Sanji, you can make me a snack to get your mind off of it.”“Hai, Lucy-chan!” He said springing up immediately.Ace grinned as he looked at Lucy’s bounty photo. She had grown a lot in the years that he’d been gone and he was already planning to pay her a visit as soon as she got to the Grand Line. He knew Pops wouldn’t begrudge him the visit. He watched as his brothers and sisters began to stumble onto the deck. Pops yawned as he made his way to breakfast and Ace’s replacement for watch came to relieve him.He followed after the others and practically vibrated in his seat as he held in his giddy excitement. He heard Marco sigh next to him. “Alright, yoi. What’s going on?”“Yeah, Ace. It’s like Thatch snuck you coffee again.” Izo added and elbowed the indignant Thatch.This was his opening. “Lu’s bounty has been released!” He said as it magically appeared in his hands along with the paper and the rest of her crew’s bounties. “See! See! Pops, everyone, look!”He shoved it at Haruta’s face. “A 50 million starting bounty, especially in the East isn’t something to scoff about.” Haruta said as he passed it around. “So what’d she do?”“Ahh, Iron Mace Alvida, Buggy the Clown, Arlong and his crew, Don Krieg and his fleet, Black Cat Kuro who was supposed to be dead and his crew, plus two corrupt Navy officers were taken down by Lu and her crew. All five of them have bounties.” Ace told them as he counted it down, handing out the other bounties before cackling at the pervert’s karmic retribution in the form of his bounty.Pops’ laughter shook the ship as he took the bounty. “Truly impressive for such a snot-nosed brat.”And then he heard the whispers as the others opened the other copies of the newscoo and found the bounties.  “That’s Lu? She’s hot.”, “Man, I’d like a piece of that.”, “And the two girls on that crew are real lookers, eh?” There were more along the same vein and Ace’s instincts took over as he lit his fist.“The next person who says anything perverted about Lu will get a taste of my fist.” He threatened. The room suddenly became silent not knowing what Ace would consider as perverted and everyone remembered the incident a few days ago of his protective instincts going off and nearly destroying the Moby.They arrived in Logue Town a few hours after their bounties were released after a very brief encounter with that Marine lieutenant that they’d met at the Baratie. The sky was dark and most of the town had already closed down save for a few bars and eateries but with the strength of the wind, their flag had wrapped around itself and their sails had been furled as they dropped anchor and there was nothing to indicate that the Merry was a pirate ship.“Alright, Nami, how much of the money that I gave you did you keep?” Lucy asked as she turned to her crew.“I have the full 200,000, why?”“Add it to Zoro’s allowance, he needs to get two more swords before we can even think about sailing to the Grand Line.” She told her friend before considering her crew. “I don’t know how much we’ll get done today but we should at least get a head start on our restocking. Sanji, get some herb plants, that should hopefully get us by for a while. Nami, I have a list of things you’ll need to find for navigating once we cross Reverse Mountain. Usopp, find whatever gear you need.”“And what about you, Lucy-chan, do you want me to accompany you?” Sanji said, sidling up to her.“Nope, I wanna wander around and see the execution site. I’ll see you guys later.” She told them as she jumped off the ship, eyes on the roof of a building as she closed her eyes and felt a pull of blood on blood and wandered around the darkened streets before stretching her arm and her haki.  ‘There!’  She thought, jumping onto the roof of a building and landing directly behind a large figure clad in a dark green cloak.“Luciella.” The man acknowledged as he turned around, allowing her to see the face that so resembled her grandfather’s but sterner, harsher, and the red tattoo running down one side. His voice was low and rough but his eyes were soft as he looked at her.She smiled at him. “Nice to meet you, Dad.”“I’ve looked forward to the day we could meet again, face to face.” Dragon said. There was something like relief in his voice as she stepped up and gave him the first hug she’d ever been able to give to her only surviving parent. Warmth flooded her, coming from Dragon, as he tentatively wrapped his arms around her and the scent of cherry blossoms hit her nose as a gentle breeze passed them.“I’ve waited a long time to see you too, Dad.”Nami gathered her bags as she finished her clothes and went to source the items on Lucy’s list. There was a high end navigation shop at the end of the street and decided she would try there. She saw quite a lot of things that confused her but she looked at all of them, checked the price and internally screamed before she put on a bright smile and played the dumb girl as the store clerk kept upselling her, Nami mentally tallied the amount, figured out the discount she could ask before picking out the things that Lucy had asked her to get.The store clerk, she knew, had no idea that she wasn’t some girl who had gone sailing with her Papa for the first time, nor did he know that she was a pirate with a high bounty. So she left the shop with everything she needed and quite a bit more for a quarter of the price and the stunned clerk none the wiser that he’d just sold it to a pirate with one of the highest active (and new) bounties in the East. And what was all that noise? Eyes scanning the crowd, Nami caught sight of Usopp in the middle of a crowd in what looked like a shoot out. Ahh well, that was normal... wait… Usopp?!?Usopp stared at the man that his father had beaten, eyes watering as he turned to the little girl. “Your father is a good man and a great sniper!” The little girl stared at him with a bright grin, blonde curls bouncing as she nodded her head in agreement before she turned away, hand holding her father’s.“Come on, Nami. Let’s find the others.” He told the navigator before quickly being crushed by the numerous bags of clothes. He grumbled at the weight but went along with the Orange-haired teen’s directions, mind miles away. Daddy Masterson had warned him that the waters beyond would get more and more treacherous as they went farther into the Grand Line and…  “Without your courage, you’ll fail your crew.”  That had been an even more horrifying warning.Meeting the swordswoman had been a punch to gut. Zoro couldn’t stand looking at her face and seeing Kuina. His cousin had been long dead and Wado was the last thing he had to remember their dreams by. He fingered the hilt of Sandai Kitetsu, feeling the bloodthirst and anger rushing through him and forced his will on to the sword. There would be enemies aplenty for him to cut down later but he wasn’t about to go on a rampage against all of these innocent people.He thought of the father he’d never known. He thought of his father’s subjects,  his  subjects and his stomach churned. He knew nothing of ruling, wasn’t raised in the palace as his parents had been. He was taught his culture by his mother and grandfather first, then by his great uncle and uncle afterward. He knew the way of the swords, the way of the samurai but actually leading… those thoughts also lead to the contemplation of  her . Kozuki Hiyori, the girl his father had betrothed him to before Oden’s death. If she was alive and willing, then perhaps he’d marry the girl who was five...six years older than he was and leave her to rule his lands. That was assuming the aforementioned complications as well as the fact that the isolationist Wano was under Kaido’s jurisdiction. Too many things to contemplate.Bartolomeo stared at the young woman with the straw hat wandering around Logue Town, she was carefree and clearly a tourist. He grinned at how easy a mark the girl was. Desire would have probably killed the girl instantly for being so naive and carefree, his childhood friend had little patience for women who were too innocent and weak. He followed the girl who was, admittedly, quite pretty into an alley and stopped as she met a dead end. Well, he was called the Cannibal for a reason, he could be quite brutal to his victims and it had been quite some time since he’d been able to take to the streets and actually take out a mark.The girl turned around immediately and he smirked, fingers crossed to stop her from running but she didn’t appear afraid, just curious, head tilted to the side. So she really was too innocent. Well, it seemed this one wasn’t going to put up much of a fight, what a pity. And then she was gone, appearing at his side within a blink of an eye. ‘ What the?’  He hastily threw up a barrier that was shattered as her fist blackened and struck it, there was no yelp, no cry of pain, just the sight of her fist breaking through the barrier and hitting him in the gut which left him winded and… his eyes widened as the sensation of flying finally registered and he blacked out. ‘  Definitely not an innocent civilian. ’ He thought as his world darkened and he crashed through a wall.Smoker sighed as he watched Bartolomeo the Cannibal sail through the air and signaled one of his men to try to get the Mob boss before his people could get to him. Apparently there was a new pirate crew making big waves with large bounties. He had yet to actually see the bounty posters but intel had it that they were heading this way soon so he had to be on guard.“Captain Smoker!” One of his men called out as he came rushing up to him. “Sir, pirates have just disembarked!”So the Straw Hat Pirates were finally here. Well, time to see these so-called big-time East Blue pirates and measure their strength. Really, with a starting bounty of 50 million, Straw Hat Lucy should present him a challenge. Not that he or his crew would be able to get away from him.And he was right… the crew was defeated within two minutes, all thirty of them and he sneered in disgust. Really, they weren’t worth their bounty. Just then a young girl in a straw hat arrived looking confused. She was wearing a red coat and dark pants and was looking terribly confused. He’d never seen her before which might mean that she was a tourist.“Hey, mister!” She said cheerily as she spotted him, completely at ease at the sight of his white coat. Perhaps she lived on an island with a base and was used to the sight of so many marines. Most people who hadn’t lived in base towns still gave marines wide berths. “I’m lost. I’ve been trying to find the execution stand but I keep getting turned around.” She said with a pout.He could hear one or two of his younger subordinates sigh dreamily and he glared at them for such an inappropriate showing towards a very  young  girl. And the execution stand was a common tourist attraction so that probably explained why she was here. Gold Roger tours were still quite a moneymaker in the town.“Can you help me find it?” She asked. “It’s okay if you don’t know it though.”Smoker let out a puff of smoke. “Sure kid, just follow the smoke. It’ll lead you to it.”The girl beamed, bright like sunshine and eyes sparkling with childish delight and innocence. He removed his earlier estimates of her being fifteen and lowered it to thirteen or fourteen. Maybe she was just an early bloomer, in which case her father was probably having a hard time beating the lecherous men like his subordinates away from her. Speaking of his men… they were about to get a thorough lecture on what is and isn’t appropriate when dealing with civilians, especially young girls.Lucy and her father spent a few hours on the rooftop talking about her mother before separating but not before he warned her to leave Logue Town as soon as she could. Apparently the Captain of the local base was a devil fruit user named Smoker who had a reputation for never letting a pirate through. Of course, this was Lucy and she’d promptly forgotten it in the face of her quest to find the execution platform which led to a run-in with the aforementioned Captain, a meeting with a bar owner named after the Pirate King and ending in… “I’m gonna kill the Clown. I’m gonna burn his body and feed his crew to a Sea King after making them suffer all the tortures Gramps and I can come up with.”  Ace said through their bond as anger and panic seeped through. Lucy’s eyes flicked to the sky then to her father on the roof and finally to the crowd as she ignored her soulmate. Her coat hid the armament that she’d infused around her neck and back. She took a deep breath as she heard the wind’s whisper of  destiny-turning point-inspiration-notoriety  and the feeling of heavy anticipation weighed down across the plaza.“I’M GOING TO BE THE PIRATE KING!” She declared before her eyes caught sight of Zoro and Sanji fighting their way through the crowd as a green-haired sharp tooth man that she had beat up earlier stared at her as well.“Zoro, Sanji, Nami, Usopp.” She called out. “Sorry, I’m dead.” The smile on her face may have been a bit too much considering the fact that there was still a 50/50 chance she’d die if Buggy had bothered or remembered to use haki before static filled the air and lightning struck.She leaned down close to Buggy’s face, a muffliato charm cast quickly and discretely, and made sure he saw her face as she whispered loud enough for only the two of them to hear. “The child of Rouge and her lover survived.”She canceled the charm as she stood straight and stepped out of the smoke, her hat falling into her hand. “Well that was interesting, it seems I lived after all.” She said out loud as she strode away from the scene, eyes glancing at the rooftop her father had been in but found it gone before she passed the green-haired gangster from earlier. The marines sprung into action once she got to her crew and they took off, the chase was on.Facing up against Smoker was harder than she’d expected since he used a sea stone jitte and she had to fight him with her sword. Their duel had gone into a stalemate before her father intervened and she was able to escape. The Captain had been blown away by the strong wind that arrived just as they were about to meet for another strike. She threw one last glance at the town once she hopped onto her ship and smiled at her father.She honestly hadn’t minded Captain Smoker. The wind whispering in her ear that he was  trustworthy-honorable-a good man . So she gave him a good fight and actually delighted in testing him and his logia abilities. But her father did have a point about having to get her out of the town, Merry had already been surrounded and Buggy’s crew were likely not too far behind. Add that to the fact that her grandfather was probably not too far away from them and she really did need to scram before she fell into his haki range. “Why’d you tell Buggy about me?”  Ace demanded angrily. It seemed he was still bitter about the almost execution.
   “Giving him a motive to enter the Grand Line again, you said you wanted to meet him.” 
   “And I said I wanted to kill him.” 
 “Relax.”  Lucy said soothingly.  “I think somehow, that had to happen.” 
   “You could’ve found a less dangerous way of doing that. I think I nearly had a heart attack.” 
 “Don’t be silly. D’s don’t die from heart attacks. If you did then I’d have some serious questions about your lineage.” Ace didn’t reply as Lucy felt him drop off to sleep.Dragon hopped on board the small ship being manned by Sabo and his team, a grin on his face that had Sabo feeling as though he’d seen it on someone before. He could feel Koala straighten as she approached him. The feeling of dread that had shot through him earlier had eased but he was still alert and slightly paranoid by the experience as he forced himself to listen to what his partner was saying.“... trouble in Logue Town?” He heard Koala ask.“Ahh, it seems two rival pirate crews were running amok. Nothing more.” There was a secretive smile on the man’s face. “Now tell me more about Cocoyashi.”Sabo nodded as he pocketed the bounty of Strawhat Lucy.Shanks groaned as he felt Mihawk approach him and he sat up with a wince. “I’m not up to a spar right now, Hawky.”“Then I suppose you wouldn’t want an update on Luciella nor her Aunt’s brew of the year?”Shanks sprung up. “Sake? And Lucy? Oh, you saw her?”His eyes widened as he took in the bounty before his eyes devoured the picture of his little Anchor at seventeen. “Good for you, Lucy.” He said before he flipped to the next bounty, noting the names of her crewmates before... “Yo, Yasopp. Look!” He said shoving it to his hungover sniper.“Captain, too loud.” He complained but took the paper nonetheless. “USOPP?” He yelled out.“I think this calls for a party! For the youngest honorary members of our crew!” Shanks declared.“Well Ray-san, it looks like Lily’s daughter has finally made her presence known.” Shakky said from behind the counter.Rayleigh smiled as he read the newscoo, yes, definitely Lily’s child. The penchant for mischief and chaos, that strength. Only the child of those two people could make a child like that.“Ahh.” He said in agreement. “I can’t wait to meet her.”“I think this calls for a celebration.” Sanji said as soon as they were sure the Marines wouldn’t be able to follow them.Lucy turned to him. “What did you have in mind?”He grinned at her, eyes turning into hearts as he placed a leg on to a barrel. “To find the All Blue!”“To be the Pirate King!” Lucy said following his lead.“To be the World’s Greatest Swordsman!”“To Map the World!”Usopp was silent for a moment. “To be a Brave Warrior of the Sea!”“Alright, guys! This is it!” Lucy said as she ran to the Captain’s quarters and grabbed a few packages. “I’ve got a gift to commemorate this!”Sanji swooned as he accepted the brown paper package from his beautiful captain. She was so thoughtful and sweet. He opened it with great care, after all, she’d lovingly wrapped the package just for him.He pulled out a blue journal and turned to see the others with similar-looking journals just different in color. Lucy-chan smiled at them and he practically melted. “It’s your own personal journal to document whatever you want. We have the ship’s log and the supply stocks for our own roles but this is for whatever doesn’t make it to our logs. Whatever you think is important for yourself to remember.”How thoughtful! Sanji felt so blessed to be on the same crew as Nami and Lucy, to be so lucky to be in their presence day in and day out. Now if only the moss head would take a hike. And preferably with the liar. “Get some rest, we’ll be training tomorrow morning.” Lucy told them as she walked away. He watched her, eyes following the girls, and he saw the fish he’d won at the contest at Logue Town, a smile on his face as he thought of the beautiful chef Carmen.And then his mood soured as he thought of Logue Town and Buggy the Clown’s attempts to execute her. It was the first time he’d ever truly believed that there was a higher being. Watching the lightning strike the platform just as the sword came down on her neck and watching it bring down the platform was breathtaking, watching her walk away from the smoldering remains of the platform, she was untouched, not a single speck of dirt on her clothes as she walked towards them as casual as they could be. It seemed the gods were favoring her.Buggy sat on his seat despite the heavy rains as his men ran about the deck trying to get the ship in order as they sailed away from Logue Town under the cover of the heavy rains. Alvida stood beside him and he honestly wondered why she was still there. True, her crew had all been caught but she could easily form a new one and she’d be more feared than anything now that she had a devil fruit.His mind thought back to Straw Hat Lucy he grits his teeth. Everything about her had been so reminiscent of that bastard Shanks and his old Captain. And then there were her words.  “The child of Rouge and her lover survived.”  How had she known about his captain? How had she known about Miss Rouge. And then he remembered the woman, she’d looked a lot like Straw Hat, but… a flash of blood-red hair like Shanks and blue eyes. Hadn’t Miss Rouge called her sister during the one time he’d met her. Maybe she knew what happened to the child if that was so then he’d have to get a hold of Straw Hat and get answers from her, he’d been denied his younger sibling long enough, it was time to get them.Mind made up, Buggy stalked to his room and brought out a small chest. He picked up the log pose from within. It seemed it was time for Buggy the Clown to make a comeback within the Grand Line. It was time to remind them that he was still a member of the notorious Roger Pirates.Four days after their escape from Logue Town, and Usopp was in the crow’s nest, body hurting from the morning’s training. Lucy had fought him hand to hand first before she blindfolded him and began an intense session of haki training. Afterward, he was passed on to Sanji who beat him black and blue. It was after she had taken on Nami, bo staff against pipe, Lucy had given her the same haki training he was given and they both were left black and blue laying on the deck.Sanji was beaten black and blue as well, refusing to even raise so much as a finger against Lucy and Zoro had put up the best fight. Usopp could remember the spar against them as they engaged in a brutal swordfight, Zoro helping her with her stance and Lucy goading him into using armament haki. He passed out after that.Now he was just on the lookout for any stray marine vessels looking to stop them. So far he hadn’t seen anything, the water was clear on his left, his right was clear there was just a flock of birds over a dark figure, it was also clear behind… a dark figure to his right? “I see something! Birds are gathering over a figure on the starboard side!” He yelled out.He watched as everyone gathered by the railing. “Well whatever it is, perhaps I can cook it.” He heard Sanji say.“Those don’t look like carrion birds.” Zoro noted.Nami shook her head. “Unless that’s a dead Sea King, I don’t know what that could be.”“Gum gum rocket!” They heard as Lucy’s arms stretched over to the figure. “Whatever it is, it’s still alive and… got it. Zoro! Catch!” She exclaimed as her arms retracted and the figure crashed into the man. Zoro and his surprise burden tumbled into the mast and Usopp winced in sympathy. It still surprised him whenever Lucy used any of her abilities, devil fruit or otherwise.“It’s a child!” Nami exclaimed and as Usopp made to head down and get a look at the kid, Lucy’s head snapped up.“No, Usopp!” She said. “Stay there! Keep a lookout for any ships. We don’t know if she was in a shipwreck, there may be others out there.”Usopp’s eyes widened, and he nodded hastily. She was right, of course, if there was a shipwreck, there might be other survivors and if that was the case, then time was of the essence. As the sniper, he had the sharpest eyes on the ship and would be the best to direct Lucy to do an immediate extraction.He heard them take the kid to the galley but he was far too focused on his task to bother and only heard the commotion as the kid tripped and clumsily tumbled across the deck which of course, led to the others rushing to her. The little girl, Apis, had explained that she had been kidnapped by marines from her island and had been held hostage. That was, of course, when he spotted the fleet. Lucy and Zoro’s head snapped up too.“Get her inside, now!” He heard Lucy growl out. Usopp silently cursed his lack of heavy projectiles from his vantage point. Nami escorted the kid away but she resisted. “Apis, stick to the wall and for Sea’s sake, stay out of sight.” Lucy growled out.“They’re leaving us alone. They might still be looking for you. We need to lose them fast. We won’t have the ability to engage an entire fleet right now.” Zoro noted.Apis’ head snapped up at the same time as Lucy’s. “A wind’s coming.” Apis told them as both Lucy and Nami stared at the girl. Nami sprang up and started shouting orders just as the wind blew them far away into calmer waters where they began to cheer.Zoro stared at the sails then at the water with a frown. Dread filled him as he realized where they were. “Oi, Witch.” He said as he turned to the orange-haired girl. “Did you notice?”“That there was no wind?” She whispered horrified. “Yes.”They stared at the still water again. “There’s something large beneath us. A lot of somethings.” Lucy noted just as the ship rose. Usopp let out a loud scream which drew the attention of the gigantic sea kings gathered around them. “Sorry.” He whispered.Zoro watched in awe as his captain stepped up to the railing, eyes narrowed and that suffocating and oppressive feeling bore down on him. The neptunians began to bow, some fell unconscious. The ship slipped gently onto the water as Lucy continued glaring at the largest one, the one that had them on their head earlier.“I think you’ll be our ride.” She said. “Sanji, get some chains and tie it around his neck just like we did with Mohmoo.”“You… you were able to talk to them, was that a devil fruit?” Apis asked in awe.Lucy shook her head. “I do have a devil fruit but not that. I’m rubber. That was the conqueror's haki which allows me to impose my will on others.”“There’s a power like that, huh?” Apis whispered. “I have the whisper-whisper fruit and it allows me to hear the animal's thoughts.”“I’ve heard of abilities like that.” Zoro noted the mysterious smile his captain held and added it to the growing list of mysteries attributed to her.“You said something about your grandfather being the village elder? That makes him the leader. Are you a tributary island?” Lucy asked.Apis nodded with a smile. “Yeah, we’ve been paying tithes for centuries. We’re small but we’ve kept our status.”“Then as the leader’s granddaughter, they’ve practically kidnapped the heir to the role. Small villages like yours tend to stick to one line.” There was a wicked gleam in her eyes as Lucy summoned the den den mushi, the white one this time. “And you said your island was called Warship, right?”The girl nodded, eyes wide at the magic and Zoro did admit that it was cool. He watched as his captain dialed a number and held a finger to her mouth to keep them quiet. “You’ve reached the Marine complaint line, how may I help you?” A woman’s crisp voice asked even as the sheer boredom reached them. Their eyes widened and Zoro could see that no one knew that there was even a Marine complaint line.Lucy cleared her throat. “Yes, hello. This is Bokuden, village elder and leader of the tributary island of Warship in East Blue.” Her voice was hoarse and did sound like that of an old man’s. “I’d like to log a complaint!” She declared her voice rising. “You’re marines from the eighth branch kidnapped my nine year old granddaughter Apis, my only heir to the position of the leader! What are you all playing at?”“The eighth branch you say?” There was the sound of a pen scratching on paper. “And when did this kidnapping happen?”“It happened yesterday afternoon! I live on top of the mountain and the only den den mushi is down in the village at the base of the mountain, it took me this long to get down there! I demand my granddaughter back and get those men booted from your ranks!”“We’ll send someone to investigate your claims right away, sir. I apologize for the actions of the Eighth branch, we do have a Vice Admiral in the area and another on the way, I’ll be sure to send them there first. Recovering your heir is of course, our priority.” The woman said as the call cut off.She turned back to them and grinned at their dumbstruck faces. “What?” She asked cheekily.“What was that?” Nami demanded.“How did you know about the complaint line?” He asked.But the swirly brow was staring at Lucy in understanding. “You came to the Baratie with the Mayor and you called him grandpa mayor, at the time, I thought you were just calling him that because he was old but he really is your grandpa isn’t he?”“Sorta, he’s my grandma’s big brother. He doesn’t have kids.”“And these positions are hereditary. Were they expecting you to take it up?”Lucy shrugged. “The marines prioritize heirs and hierarchy, Apis is her grandfather’s only heir, that makes her nobility in their eyes. Primarily because the tributary schedules and payment method is done by the leader and all oaths are taken from one generation to the next. If the line breaks, the new bloodline can choose not to renew their oaths and they would lose the tithes and taxes.”That made sense. Zoro shrugged and leaned on the mast. His eyes were already closing.Ace found Thatch in a puddle of blood and his heart stopped before he rushed for his fellow commander bellowing, “Help, Thatch has been attacked!” As he went. Doors flew open in an instant and people began to rush to the scene, he placed his hands on the wound, determined to keep the pressure on it before debating whether or not to cauterize the wound. It was as he caught sight of Marco that inspiration struck him.“What happened, yoi?” Marco demanded.Thatch’s eyes opened. “Teach, stabbed me, and stole the fruit…” He rasped out. Ace’s eyes widened before fury set in.  “Ace?”  He heard Lucy call out worried as she tried to soothe his anger.  “Ace, talk to me. What’s wrong?”  He ignored her calls as he motioned for Izo to replace him.“Find Teach, now!” He ordered the others as the nurses came sprinting down. “And someone wake Pops!”He ran to his room and opened his drawers reaching for the false bottom and Lucy’s latest birthday gift. One drop of phoenix tears from her grandmother’s familiar was in a vial and Lucy had the last drop with her, it wouldn’t cure Pops’ terminal illness or he would’ve given it to the older man but right now he was just thankful he hadn’t used it at all.He rushed back to Thatch just as Pops came into view, he pulled the shirt off and uncorked the vial before letting the drop fall on the wound. He, and everyone else, watched in awe as the wound closed and color returned to Thatch’s face. He sighed in relief and ignored the questions being thrown at him and only said “He’s going to live, the tears of a true Phoenix can heal all wounds.”And then he returned to his other’s calls, unblocking their link and the feeling of worry and displeasure came through from Lucy’s end. He winced. They didn’t block their connection often and it was always such an unpleasant feeling.  “Sorry Lu, one of my men has just turned traitor. I’ll have to deal with this.” He felt her anger drain as love and reassurance washed over him. For a moment he let everything fall away until… “Teach can’t be found and we’re missing a lifeboat!” Anger returned in full force.After tuning out Bokuden’s lecture in favor of worrying about and talking to Ace, Lucy saw Apis wander away with a sack of food. With a glance at Nami who nodded, they set off. Lucy and Nami followed Apis all the way up the mountain. Curiosity and anticipation built in her from the moment she heard the story of the Sennenryu ‘the Millennium Dragon”. It reminded her of her mother’s partner Tanwen. It often made her wonder what happened to the dragon but it could have been anywhere by now, if she was still even alive. Still though, the lost island was a place she could see the dragon going. Where better than to be with her kind?And then she saw the old dragon, green and ancient. Lucy could practically feel the years on him. Weighed down and lonely. She heard the whispers of loneliness and pain. She heard his roars of  where are you?-come back-why did you leave me?  And then she saw Apis talking to him, calling him Grandpa Ryuu. After a little mishap where the dragon had tried to eat her, she settled and watched the back and forth conversation between the little girl and the ancient one and conceded that it was very sweet but the tugging in her mind alerted her to another presence.There was a low growl from somewhere within the cave. Apis paled and Grandpa Ryuu raised his head. “I didn’t realize she was in here.” Apis whispered.They turned their head cautiously and saw a dragon that looked vastly different from the bird like Grandpa Ryuu, this one was white and gold and looked more like a dinosaur. The tugging in her mind grew as the dragon turned its eyes on her and she gasped. “Tanwen.” She said as she approached the dragon despite Nami’s attempts to stop her. She raised her hand and allowed the dragon to sniff her hand before it bowed to her and allowed her to touch it’s head and just under her, she saw a single egg in the nest.“You… you tamed the fierce one?” Apis said from the side as she stood beside the ancient dragon.Lucy shook her head. “She was my mother’s partner. My mother was a dragon rider, a member of the elite military within our kingdom. Tanwen was her partner. I guess she recognized my scent.”The navy had spotted them, of course, they did. Apis wanted to cry but she took a calming breath. Grandpa Ryuu came first and she wasn’t going to allow them to kill him for some miracle elixir of immortality. She stood her ground and stared at them unflinchingly from the ridge as she kept her senses sharp so that she could see the ship immediately.The mercenary that the marines were working with, ‘Sicko’ as Lucy-san liked to call him, had sent some wind blades towards them but Lucy-san had intercepted them. Apis watched in awe as she stood in between them, clothes cut but there were no signs of wounds on her body. And that was when it happened. The other dragon, Tanwen, came out of the cave and immediately flew towards Lucy-san. Another attack from Sicko was useless because the dragon didn’t even have any bruises and he was forced to run as the dragon unleashed a torrent of fire towards Sicko and his marines before grabbing Lucy-san and taking her back to the ridge.And that was when Apis spotted the Merry. “There!” She said as she pointed to the ship. Sanji-san nodded as they all got on board and between the blonde chef and the dark haired girl, they were able to launch the cart down the ridge. Apis grinned and laughed along with Lucy-san as she cleared the trees and above them, Tanwen flew.“Nami! Get the ship ready. One of you tie the cart to Merry!” Lucy-san commanded. “Oi, Sea King!” She yelled as the shadow approached them. “You’re going to be ferrying us again.” They narrowly evaded the warships by being smaller and faster before they bought themselves more time when Lucy-san mounted Tanwen’s back and set fire to the two other ships that came out to pursue them.They were moving fast and Apis clung to Grandpa Ryuu’s neck, talking to him softly. The raft cart rocked a bit as Lucy-san landed next to them. And then she began to talk to Grandpa Ryuu, not the talking at, that adults gave kids where they don’t expect an answer, she was actually talking to the ancient dragon in a way that showed that she actually understood what the dragon was saying. All of her responses were perfectly timed and her words showed that she understood what he was ‘saying’ completely.“Wait… are you?” Apis asked the older girl.“Lucy, can you understand the dragon?” Nami asked.There was that grin, completely at ease as though she wasn’t constantly confusing everyone. “I did say I’ve heard about abilities like that.” The dark haired girl said.In Apis’ mind, she had to admit that she’d thought the Captain had been talking about hearing of her devil’s fruit but that didn’t seem to be the case. But then again, Apis’ eyes turned towards Tanwen, and then it returned to Lucy-san… she could tame the Fierce One, the one that constantly threatened to burn her and swallow her whole. She had heard the other dragon lamenting the loss of her partner, her rider and to be so cut off from the others much in the same way sweet and senile Granpa Ryuu was. But who was Lucy-san that she was so gifted and so powerful?After gaining a good lead, Nami finally turned to her constantly befuddling captain. “Alright, talk!” Nami demanded. “What abilities were you talking about?”She could see everyone else perking up and gathering closer. She heard the sigh and saw her captain tilt her head up, watching the more volatile dragon flying over them. Nami was still nervous and unsure about Tanwen but she knew that they couldn’t just leave her to the marines. “Witches can sometimes manifest powers: empathic abilities which means you could sense and even influence another’s emotions, legilimens which is mind reading and that goes hand in hand with occlumens a skill that you learn to keep people from reading your mind basically creating a barrier, and finally the seer which means you can see the future.” Lucy began.“Not everyone would have these abilities, they’re usually inherited but sometimes they manifest outside the usual family lines and it’s even rarer to have more than one. I have empathic and legilimens abilities but I’ve focused a lot on the occlumens portion so that I wouldn’t get overwhelmed by other’s thoughts. Legilimency can also be learned if a person has enough patience and skill.” Mind reading, had Lucy been reading their minds the whole time? Nami had suddenly felt sick. “Don’t worry, I find it bad form to read my crew’s minds.” She assured them.Lucy sighed again. “On the other hand, there is another ability, one that isn’t found in witches. It’s called the Voice of All Things. It requires a great deal of empathy and understanding but… it basically allows you to hear the voices of animals and objects because when something is made, the person who makes it is usually thinking of something, its purpose and meaning, the measurements, and all of those things. It also allows them to understand what the world is trying to tell them, a warning of sorts being whispered in the wind. I only know of two people who have it, Gold Roger and myself.” She gave them a grin. “When I met each one of you, the winds whispered to me that I could trust you and that we would one day become nakama.”She could see that she was just as dumbstruck as the rest of her crewmates at her Captain’s admission. But another part of Nami felt warm at the thought that the fates decided they were all meant to be together. And then she thought of what her captain had told her of her abilities. From what she could tell, the Voice of All Things was like empathic abilities being combined with this legilimency before being sprinkled with some haki. If that was the case, no wonder her captain was able to use it. But then again… Gold Roger had such an ability, one that required great levels of empathy, that meant that Roger probably wasn’t as horrible of a person as he was often portrayed.“Well…” Usopp began. “I thought you were just going to tell us that you could talk to snakes and lizards.”“I can though.” Lucy admitted with a frown. “At least, I’m pretty sure I can. When I talk to a snake it usually comes out in another language, one that has a lot of hissing. My mother and grandmother were able to do the same, it’s called parseltongue. But it doesn’t happen that often.”Okay, so Lucy was seriously overpowered. This had to be some hack! She could already see how powerful her captain was poised to become and already was and she sent a thankful prayer to whatever deity was listening that she was on her side. No matter how much the thoughtless and insane, slightly moronic as well, the woman may be, at least she was strong enough and kind enough to actually be someone Nami was willing to follow.Her train of thought was cut off as Lucy, the sea king, and the front part of Merry disappeared. She barely even had time to scream before she went through whatever it was that had taken Lucy and suddenly she was in the middle of a ferocious storm and her first thought was  ‘Oh, it’s a mirage.’  Quickly followed by,  ‘Oh shit, we’re in the heart of an isolated storm.’ Thankfully between her navigation abilities, the Sea King, and Lucy’s ability to  command  the Sea King, they were able to make their way to the island safely. Oh and what a magnificent island it was, lush with wildlife and white marbled ruins. This may just be the island that Apis’ people had come from, the lost island. Her eyes caught sight of a statue and it was of an old man that resembled Bokuden wearing the clothes that were customary to the people of Warship Island. Yes, this was the lost island of Apis’ ancestors.Her good mood vanished quickly enough after the fall into the temple and as her eyes took in the murals on the ceiling she began to wonder… Of course, the cheer from the discovery was short-lived too because Sicko just had to show up and they’d had to take the cart down again and that was when Zoro stayed behind.“Sabo-kun! Dragon-san!” He heard Koala call as he and his boss looked away from the papers they’d been pursuing.Koala came in, she didn’t look overly worried but there was still some agitation in her form. “It seems a complaint was lodged to the Marines about the Eighth branch kidnapping the granddaughter and heir of the leader to a small tributary island here in East Blue. We’ll have to get out of here as soon as we can. Garp the FIst is being redirected to investigate and Vice Admiral Tsuru has entered the Grand Line, the two of them should be within the area within the next day or two.”“The Eighth Branch?” Dragon-san repeated. “They’re the ones without a permanent base and often patrol as a fleet.”“If that’s the case, it may turn bloody here.” Sabo said as he realized exactly what that meant. Garp the Fist may practice a version of moral justice and would let a lot of things slide but if it was true and a tributary princess in rank or name was kidnapped by Marines of all people, then he wouldn’t let that slide. Not to mention Tsuru’s reputation for cleaning house.“How old is this princess?” Sabo asked, wanting to know how much blood would be shed if at all.“Nine.” Koala answered immediately. Yeah, total annihilation. And hadn’t they received word that Tsuru was entering the East Blue for a total overhaul and audit of the Marines? Which may mean that the subordinates wouldn’t be punished as severely unless they fought back when told to surrender… and unless this reached the higher levels of the World Government.Dragon-san stood up. “Very well, I suppose we’ll need an additional boost to get out of here before we can be spotted, we’re not at a position to engage a fleet right now.” He said as he stepped out onto the deck and instructed Hack to adjust their course just as a strong wind hit the sails and sent them speeding through the water. Sabo clung to the mast for dear life as Koala gripped onto the railing screaming bloody murder. They’d flown right through a small fleet of warships which had been rocked by the wind and set off course and he caught sight of a little girl in a raft with a green dragon disappearing in clear waters.  ‘What the?’  He thought before another wind threw them farther away. He could hear Hack’s panicked cries that he’d lost control of the ship and saw Dragon-san leaning casually against the wall of the galley, a smile on his face and completely unbothered by the high speeds. ‘This is all your fault, Dragon-san.’  He thought angrily.Sicko’s wind blade had been a challenge but he’d progressed far enough with armament that he was able to use it a few times against the mercenary. He hadn’t counted on his Captain’s arms stretching to pick him up and he really did feel like he was about to die as he was sent flying all the way to the ship. Honestly, he would’ve preferred getting picked up by the dragon. Zoro grumbled as he stood up and stretched his body this way and that to smooth out the aches before Lucy accosted him and began with the bandaging.And of course, it was just their luck that they would be met by the entire fleet of the eighth branch and that Apis would get kidnapped along the way. He smirked as he heard Lucy’s orders to continue forward. He saw the Witch and the Liar nod, eyes hard and resolute as Lucy rescued Apis before she jumped onto Tanwen’s back and grabbed him and the Love cook on each of her rubbery arms. They were deposited into different ships, he and Swirly brow began to fight off hordes of marines as they made their way to where the chains were being held up, they needed to get those chains down whatever it took.His captain on the other hand had landed on the flagship, Grandpa Ryuu’s roar of rage momentarily deafening them as he began to take flight. The cannons and spear guns had been shot before Lucy could even reach the ship so that had been what she had targeted first but Zoro shared a grim look with the Shit cook and knew the damage had already been done. They could feel the pulse of Lucy’s haki and the marines began to pass out, fire reigned from the skies as the flag ship was cut in half.Thousands of screeching roars could be heard moments later from the sky and as Lucy’s arms wound around him and deposited him back to the Merry, he witnessed something that hadn’t been seen in a thousand years. An island rose from the sea as thousands of Sennenryuu returned home. He looked up in wonder and smiled.  ‘Can you see this, Kuina-nee? I believe this is the sign that I’ll be able to liberate our land and achieve our dreams.’ Lucy heard the roar of Grandpa Ryuu, she didn’t flinch, didn’t even turn away.  ‘How dare you! I’ll destroy you for harming the child.’  He roared in anger as he sat up and unfolded his wings, eyes clear for the first time in years perhaps even centuries as he glanced around him. And as he fell, his eyes were on her.  ‘Promise me, promise me that Apis will be safe.’  She nodded solemnly before her eyes widened. ‘It’s enough. I’m home. I’m here and it’s time for me to die and for another generation to be born.’  He said as he lifted his head and roared louder, this one echoing through the world.  ‘It’s time to come home, the time is now, the hatchlings will be here soon! Come home! I, the watcher, have given the call!’  He said.Lucy stared in awe as she returned to Grandpa Ryuu and heard the answering calls of the thousands of dragons that had been awaiting his call.  ‘Yes, we heard you!’  They said.  ‘We’re coming home, we’re coming for the hatchlings.’  And there it was, as she explained and soothed Apis’ anger, the dragons arrived and the lost island rose from the side of Warship island. She felt the hurt, resentment, and anger fade from the little girl in the face of the new life and resolve formed within her. New life  , the wind whispered in her ear.  Returning to the old ways-a queen will be crowned-the lost people are lost no more-the dragon people remember . She could hear all of this and more, eyes settling on the child that cuddled the hatchling dragon. The last descendant of the kings of her people. No matter Lucy’s disdain for the majority of the nobility, her family aside, she couldn’t bring herself to hate the little girl but that didn’t mean she wasn’t going to test her resolve.After beating Nelson and Sicko, she ordered her crew to move the Merry to the docks. The longer they stayed there, the more dangerous the situation could become so she had Sanji get provisions and ordering Nami to begin preparations to set sail. “You can come with us, you know?” She told Apis nonchalantly.She smiled when the girl shook her head. “No, my people once guarded and served the Sennenryuu, I want to continue guarding them and maybe one day I can say hello to them when they return.” There were mutterings of agreements from the rest of villagers.“But they only return once in a thousand years, by that time…” Usopp trailed off.Apis laughed at him. “I know but my descendants will be here and so will their descendants. So long as my people exist, so shall our relationship with the dragons.” She vowed.“Heavy words for a child so young.” Zoro told her. “Are you willing to do whatever it takes to make that a reality?”“I don’t think that should be a problem.” Lucy cut in. “As the princess of the lost island and the direct descendant of the last king, she’s well loved and supported by her people. Besides, her mandates would be followed anyway.”“You figured it out?” Apis asked sheepishly as she scratched the back of her head.“Your grandfather is the history and lore keeper of your people and his insistence of you knowing your history and heritage kinda pointed it out. Plus, you’re the only one wearing gold which is usually reserved for royalty.”“I guess you’re right.”“What’ll you do if the marines come after the dragons?”“I’ll stop paying tributes and lead my people back to our ancestral island, we found a way to conceal our island in a permanent storm that created a mirage, we’ll find a way to do the same here.” And oh, yes, that strength washed over Lucy as an echo from a time long gone rang through her of schemes and plans made by a king desperate to protect the dragons and the cheers and agreements that followed his mandates. She nodded at Sanji who presented Apis with a flag of the Straw Hat Pirates.“Do with this what you will, our private number is folded away in there.” She said before she patted her head and hopped up onto Merry. They were waved off by a cheering crowd as Tanwen shadowed them for a while before returning to her own hatchling. Lucy had done what she could to protect the egg throughout the adventure and the trunk had been the only safe place to put it, thankfully, the egg hatched on the island itself and not inside the trunk.Sanji stared at Reverse Mountain in shock before he hastily snapped to attention and began to follow all of the beautiful Nami-swan’s orders. He let out a small laugh as he thought through all of the adventures he’d had with the Straw Hats in the last month and a half that he’d been with them. A crew full of dreamers, that’s what they were, and he had no doubt that they’d make it to the top and achieve all of their individual and united dreams.His good mood vanished as Sicko made another appearance, of course the bastard was going to show up at the most dangerous moment. Oh, but how glorious Nami-swan was as she tricked him and pushed him off the ship and into certain death. He was a pirate and had grown up with Zeff on the Baratie, there were times when violence to the point of death was necessary in order to protect the restaurant so he wasn’t all that bothered by it. His cheer returned as he noticed how close they were to the summit.  ‘This is going to be magnificent.’ Dominique went over her figures again, brows furrowed as she crossed out some of the figures before erasing an entire line of runes from her schematics. She ignored the opening of the door in favor of her research. “It’s been years since you’ve taken part in the search.” She heard Nana Cassiopeia say.She raised her head and caught sight of Nana’s dark hair falling over one of her parchments. “I’m a dab hand at runes, perhaps I can offer you some assistance?”“You’ve never taken part in the search before, why now?” She blurted out, curiosity getting the better of her.There was a small laugh. “My, and I thought you knew the art of subtlety.” There was a pause as she glanced at the parchment again, hand reaching for the spare quill. “In truth, these formulas were the same ones I gave to my nephew Alphard and his friend Gillian all those years ago. I originally created it to lock on to the world of my soulmate.”“Then why didn’t you ever use it?”There was sadness in Nan’s eyes as she gave her a small smile. “I was ready to do it but I had some doubts. My family was falling apart, a civil war was being fought on our streets and then I met an old friend, Cassandra Trelawny, and I asked her what would become of my family if I left.”Dominique was silent as she leaned forward in anticipation. “She told me that it would falter and break, the line all but spent and Alphard truly would die by his sister’s hand. I never liked Walburga but I couldn’t let her do that so I put aside my desire and chose my duty. I helped him fake his death and gave these to him. At the time, I had nothing to lose, my soulmate hadn’t been born yet and I thought I had the time, my house needed me so I stayed. By the time everything died down, the wars, the restructuring, the Empire, my soulmate was already in his fifties and in another world. He’s aging as a mortal and I suppose my courage failed me.” There was a bittersweet smile on her face. “He’s in his seventies now, no doubt married with children, I’ve not the heart to rip that up nor the will to learn what I’ve been dreading.”She was quiet as she thought things through. “I think you should still go.”There was surprise in those eyes and a protest on her lips but Dominique held up her hand. “What if he isn’t married? What if he’s widowed or alone? Or what if you’re not meant to be romantically involved? What if what he… er… or she needs from you is companionship? Don’t live your life in regret and don’t use the house as an excuse to hide away from reality. The world is in a stable position, the House of Black is as powerful as it can be, and there are quite a few powerhouses that can take up the mantle. You’ve led us all well, now it’s time to let others take their turn to lead.”“Very well, but remember, we may not end up in the same world.”“That’s okay…” Dominique trailed off as an idea came to mind. “You said that you created this? Is there any way to modify it to see if our soulmates are in the same world? Or to create a multiple jump system so that we can jump to other worlds where our other relatives might be?”“I… er… I don’t know. It may be possible in theory but practical applications would be hard to test and it’ll be a far more complicated calculation and sequence.”“That’s okay. Just as long as we can make it work, it might allow us to locate Luciella and still find our soulmates. Maybe even convince them to relocate into the same world.” She said. “Maybe some modified tracking charms would work…”
        Notes:
          So, let's just assume that Apis and her grandfather forbade the Marines from sailing too close to their island and practically towed the remaining marine vessels away from their island and gift-wrapped them for the two Vice Admirals. Nelson is suitably punished, Sicko is really dead, and Garp just wants to get on with it and return to Marine HQ. Lucy has laid practically all her cards on the table for her crew even if it was only the tip of the iceberg for her crew. Buggy has returned to the Grand Line and the Ace/Lucy reunion is fast approaching! I gave them all higher bounties because I figured the good Commodore exaggerated just a bit in order to include Usopp and Nami in the fight against Krieg and his fleet. While Arlong's foot soldiers were supposedly taken out by Nami so... yeah, he might have been a teeny tiny bit too good at exaggerations. Let me know what you guys think! Stay healthy and safe!
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Where the Sea leads us series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (16)
  Comments
          Mayu_N, Healer99, Floppymore, witchy_chan, BlueSeraphos, A_Time_Traveling_Shark, kistunefan, Mashirou, BSkeleton, Thegoodchild83, Maliya, madapingu, Aki_chan, Rain_Nightwalker, Knifethrower321, YH_Night, RedMilva, Koolkat1573, Parthenopaeus, LaylaRiddle, BlueRoze, mimi_dark, BlossomInTheNight, berkaa, Lady_Grim, caelumania, Let_The_World_Honor_The_Fallen, CynicalHonesty, WayTooOldToBeHere, 2103Ameryllis1992, EquinePianist, Eenta, ChocoCookie24, LupaAltrecation, Sillykins, Nixdia, yvonna, ElecktraUzumaki, Chocoron, scribblepaws, Th3_1R0N_S0Ldi3R, C4miner, BlueNekomata, Sofia28, gincitri, Sandy_Luna1889, YaoiLover2344, Alizehikari, ajmeyers, domino54, 
               and 300 more users
            immakittybear, Korokke, 10zin, FairyTaler, srirachacha, questionstash, Tressie_G, Blacknight610, silversqades, Kyaiun, rabbitfriend, Ollister1, SnowDropDays, Yeda_Kristy, sl_sh22, Pandakat678, Alexciel, Melly27, Sidekickkris, TiaRose99, JellyFoxJan, Athy_Nani, Wargetter, tangerine3173, suchaflippingfangirl, AnkhPosts, MeMyselfAndPie, ryya_ikki, sexun_qi, gangtansonyeondan, Arok, LuckyKittens, Firelily24, Kisakraze7, BooksAreMyLife13, xXGrandXx, XsoXus, huijin, Flying_Thunderbird, silverwolf_fox, JPanther, ToriTora, ConfusedBird564, CuteNekoGirl111, Gxfssfgcge341, artisticallySick, Bibliophile_Anya, SummerOfShadows, ashlee1068, Magueca, Molletay000, Niza13149, Aglio_Saggezza, nadeshiko_fujiwara_komiko, Gabyzinha_nya, StudiousMusings, GabyBearz, eldritch_aizawa, KHRtuna27, JustCallMeOtaku, CypressRiverblade, IridescentStars, EveningRises, Hide_art_love, Moonlover, ThePerfectNugget, SommernightOcean45s, Rin_Sakami, McDoodleyDoodles1, Kevnel, Larya, LittleNumbers, SerialKnitter, Fupoko_chan, Mitsu_Bell, Anitoonfan, Animelover1996, TauToa, Kudoyuri, VLarensa, Piikashu, Zakuro287, Larry3830, amina90, marian_sp, x_Lissa_x, Tsukiyoko_Natsume27, Abi_op, Ahryielle, 00Lover_of_all00, TheAbsoluteOne, Mugiwara_Duck, Dendule95, DragonSlayerEmpress, Deadbloodshiki62, Karasu0918, TooTroublesomeForWords, EtoKai, bRhianneG, asirey, ButterflyDream101, XXXXXMA, isabella03, IsadiahInDisguise, Neko_Shinigami, Nathanyah, titchoupinette, s3adolphin, Miki523, Tsunahime_49330, GlidingOne, aureum, AlleyKatt696, KitsuneMikoWitch, Shinigami1095, Jham, AlladaleRiver, Sekhmet_Rampage, yukina15, MarphasChappers, Sekment780, Perssassy, icedstrawberries, Lydiasdream, sparkynoodle, 1BabyDoll_of_Fandom9, nanavonbloedsinn, TheSchubita, HelianaKaye, casscass, Safiretap, The_Duchess_of_Mercia, panravenc, Blood_Rose21, Kaorine, Gemcat167, Blaaah45, AysaWolf, Black_Thanatos, PuddingsWithProblems, AngelicInferno, Elentiya21, BonadeaHv27, CatWick, ElijahExists, fanficreader93, GracefulLily, Mary1827, Bexilicious, annabelle_edmund, LadyHawk2002, Grinagog, Happy_little_pill, DaemoniaAzraelDiOz, Blackcatlily13, Tsukiriver, Fedorasan, Cersesi, Tabbie1999, Blirf, Bloody_Kitsune_Lover, Jozina, nessa11997, GlowingCandy, WandaMaximoff771, Nonparoxysm, Rapidias, PhyreGirl, Sakiruka, Sanasuke, GoldenFlyingHats, Kana09, euphorihoya, Amara9, theBlackmoon64, uurarakaochako, Necochan, MidnightRose002, Nube, Charmandapanda, misminor, GHOST_Child32, MamaOwl248, RinEveKlein, Mgdln, BlueSoul9699, nyanchan113, naomi_nami, VladTNoLifeKing, HinataShinda, Silverwolf119, SweetLover, Livelovelaughapps, Dragon_Child2000, rainbowemperor, Little_Angel, RedPandaJay, Silver303, TsuyukiVongola, LiWei, Itsusen, Imagineet21, LexiFarrow, Moonlight_Blue_Rose, CassieChook, Som3on3, TeaDrinkingFlowers, Hikari_Kaiya, HaruhiSuzumiya, Lapsina, Fuuring, mwoods3, AnimeLover0105, Keitsuki01, Aithusa13, MonkeyMiranda, Moon_D_Luna, Sandstorm16, Auroa_wings1994, Jisa, IamMyselfIamMe, AisaSilvers, LadyTeldra, Smallestbookwyrm, Yaoi_Action_fan_boy_29, AlmondyMonday, BlueBirdBlue29, Kaisaoy, justaguest, SarcasmIsBest53, HannokiKaen, LunaDragon047, Cricket4444, Flavia137, Soteira, Yueli, Naginata21, ShadowDragonOfTheBlackSea, lilyoftheval5, Guermantes, Poosaard2, Darkgirl12, LadyRed22, HPNU92, Tempest_Nemesis, Chillnmonkey, TessaStone, Fandomexual, evergreenrose, TarsusIV, Cheeroes, HopeEmblem, Peaches44, Sylanc, FallenAngelsGrace, Dancing_Llama, fantasy92, Birds2Fish, aislingadair, Val_GaMa, redhuntress26, OceansAlliteration, Grekaize, Yannanikki, Teachtaire, lukymiko, Pinkhopelessromantic, OceanWatcher, Ireland007, The_Weird_Girl, Bibah, estallias, LansunStar, Sanyok28, Wonder_wings, Baggins_thief, MonoTon, Lia_Tenshi, Sam126, Hannah200012, punloving_kitsune, Allektevis, Jvitor901, FrostedShadow401, GottaBe21Rabbits, halyyy, Kohanita, Rubylioncub, Kayl, catrina2515, MoshiJBR, CherokeeFox20, Kirkland_Bonnefoye78, Rainbow_Maze, NarukoUzu, Mwhahahaha18, MKM, Solaris_Scantraxx, LissStLieb and Bepo1401
             as well as 
          254 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
