      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandoms:
               Chinese Actor RPF陈情令 | The Untamed (TV) RPF
              Relationship:
               Wang Yi Bo/Xiao Zhan | Sean
              Characters:
               Wang Yi BoXiao Zhan | SeanOriginal Child Character(s)Original Female Character(s)Original Male Character(s)
              Additional Tags:
               Alternate UniverseFluffDomestic Fluffbjyx - FreeformTop Wang Yi Bo/Bottom Xiao Zhan | SeanImplied Sexual ContentWedding PlanningXZ and WYB parentsOCs are for their parentsDon't Like Don't ReadUnplanned PregnancyMpreg
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 7 of the The Lion, The Rabbit, and The Alternate Universe series
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-05Completed:2020-10-09Words:7644Chapters:2/2Comments:23Kudos:96Bookmarks:8Hits:888
      Who Cares, Baby? I Think I wanna Marry You.
      panda_desu
          Summary:
              “Red. Definitely red.”“Jiejie, of course we’re going with red but don’t you think a suit will fit them more?”“Aiya, Meimei. Red suits will be too much, ah!” Xiao Mama says, leaning back in her seat. “My ZhanZhan is always a traditional boy at heart so a changsan will fit him more. I’m sure your YiBo will also look dashing in a matching set. What do you think, Meimei? I know this tailor at home--”“No need ah. They will get married in the city so it will be too troublesome if the tailor is in your hometown. Leave it to Meimei.” Wang Mama says as she nods her head firmly.
  Notes:
      HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR BELOVED ZHANZHAN!!!
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
      Chapter 1
    Chapter Text
    “Red. Definitely red.”“Jiejie, of course we’re going with red but don’t you think a suit will fit them more?”“Aiya, Meimei. Red suits will be too much, ah!” Xiao Mama says, leaning back in her seat. “My ZhanZhan is always a traditional boy at heart so a changsan will fit him more. I’m sure your YiBo will also look dashing in a matching set. What do you think, Meimei? I know this tailor at home--”“No need ah. They will get married in the city so it will be too troublesome if the tailor is in your hometown. Leave it to Meimei.” Wang Mama says as she nods her head firmly.“Well, since you insist on paying for everything, I guess I can only listen to you.” Xiao Mama feigns a resigned sigh.Wang Mama’s shoulders slack. “Aiya, Jiejie. It’s the least we can do. Our YiBo needs to take responsibility and ZhanZhan has been taking good care of him. They love each other, that’s good but our YiBo is still too much. So this much is nothing, Jiejie.”“No, no, no. YiBo is a good kid. Him marrying ZhanZhan is responsible enough.” Xiao Mama waves her hand. “Ah, let’s not talk about it again. What do you think about that catering service I told you the other day?”The conversation between the two women flows non-stop, jumping from one topic to another as they talk animatedly and completely ignoring the handsome young man sitting beside them. Xiao Zhan can only sit quietly and obediently while his mother and Wang YiBo’s mother arrange everything for his wedding.Yup. His and Wang YiBo’s wedding.The thing is, Xiao Zhan doesn’t really want a grand wedding. He’s almost 29 and he already has a baby so a grand wedding is a little bit embarrassing at this point. Xiao Zhan thinks he’ll be content with a small feast; attended only by their families and close friends. But the second he said this to his mother, the reaction he got was Xiao Mama yelling a “ABSOLUTELY NOT!” over the phone. Then she went on and on about filial piety, young people nowadays, and everything else. Xiao Zhan then called his father helplessly but Xiao Baba said with a hinted sneer, “Well, that kid got you pregnant, at least let him pay.”Are they really the parents who brought him up??Anyway. It’s Sunday and both mothers managed to lure him out for lunch because they said they wanted to meet Xiao Ying. They did spend a good hour playing with their granddaughter before they decided to get down to business. Sensing danger, Wang YiBo has whisked Xiao Ying away to take her for a walk around the mall, leaving Xiao Zhan alone with their mothers. The traitor!Xiao Zhan is glad that he brings his laptop with him so at least he can distract himself. At least until his own mother kicks his leg under the table. Xiao Zhan hisses. “Whaat?”“This kid! You’re working, aren’t you? It’s Sunday! And we’re talking about your wedding right here! Pay more attention!” Xiao Mama chides.Xiao Zhan closes his laptop. “I’m not working.” He says, not completely lying. He’s just looking at some design ideas for a future project. Absolutely has nothing to do with work. More like he’s just doing his hobby. “You and A-Yi already manage everything, Ma. I can only be a good child and listen to you.”“See, MeiMei? This child really knows how to sweet-talk his elders!”Wang Mama laughs. “It’s a sign that you brought him up well, Jiejie.” She turns to Xiao Zhan, “ZhanZhan, don’t be like that. This is still your wedding. If you don’t like something, just tell your mother or me. We will definitely listen.”Xiao Zhan smiles sweetly at Wang Mama. “It’s okay, A-Yi. Both of you are experienced in this so naturally YiBo and I are in good hands.”Wang Mama fell in love with this future son-in-law of hers since the first time they met through video call. That time, his outrageous only son was dropping the bomb telling her and her husband about him dating someone and said someone was carrying his child. Wang Mama and Wang Baba were out of the country at the time so they could only demand a video call to meet the person their son dated. Xiao Zhan was charming. Handsome, smart, polite, and courteous. Until this very day, Wang Mama wonders how in the world that son of hers managed to woo such a wonderful person as Xiao Zhan.Of course she knows her own son’s capabilities and qualities. Wang YiBo is a good child and deserves everything in the world. But Wang Mama still can’t help but think that Xiao Zhan is still a little too good for his son. She told Wang YiBo this and to her surprise, Wang YiBo laughed and said, “I know, Ma. I’m so lucky.”So naturally, when Wang YiBo told her that Xiao Zhan didn’t really want a wedding, Wang Mama thought it ridiculous. She only has one son so of course she won’t let anything, including his own future son-in-law, come in her way of giving her only son a lavish wedding. Luckily, Xiao Zhan’s parents think the same. Well, at least, Xiao Zhan’s mother does. Not to mention that her stupid son already impregnated Xiao Zhan, it’s all the more reason to spend more money in the wedding as a form of apology to Xiao Zhan’s family. There’s also the business of neither Xiao Zhan nor Wang YiBo let neither parents chip in at any of the cost when Xiao Ying was born (Truth is, Xiao Zhan paid for everything himself and only let Wang YiBo chipped in for very little but they don’t and won’t ever let their parents know about this. Ever). So both of them practically don’t have anything to say when both mothers insist on a wedding.“Fine, fine. I know you’re a good kid. Now, go call YiBo. Where did that kid run off too with my granddaughter?” Wang Mama waves her hand.Xiao Zhan smiles again, taking out his phone from his pocket and finds that he actually has a message from Wang YiBo.
  Are they done or do I need to take YingYing for another round?
Gou-zaizai, be good and come back here.Your mother is looking for you.YingYing also needs her milk soon.
  Ugh.
  Damn.
  Okay. I’ll come back.
Xiao Zhan puts his phone down and tells the mothers that Wang YiBo is coming back. Xiao Mama then tells his son to order them something to eat since it’s almost lunch time and the restaurant they are currently sitting at starts to be filled with people. So Xiao Zhan calls for a waiter and orders food for all of them. Wang YiBo appears not long after pushing Xiao Ying’s stroller in front of him. Xiao Zhan reaches out both hands as he stands up to take Xiao Ying from his fiance. Xiao Ying excitedly makes a grabbing gesture with her little hands as soon as she sees Xiao Zhan.“Baba!” She exclaims.“Where did you guys go?” Xiao Zhan asks as Wang YiBo unbuckles Xiao Ying from the stroller.“Just around.” Wang YiBo answers curtly. “YingYing likes the aquarium at the atrium.” He tells Xiao Zhan as Xiao Zhan takes Xiao Ying out of her stroller and makes her sit on his lap.“Lots of fish, Baba!!” Xiao Ying exclaims as if she understands what her fathers are talking about.Xiao Zhan puts a finger in front of his mouth to gently tell Xiao Ying not to shout but then he laughs and kisses her daughter’s face. Xiao Mama also leans in to give the baby a kiss on her cheek. Wang Mama looks like she wants her share of kissing her granddaughter too but she sits across the table so she holds back. She turns to her son instead, caressing Wang YiBo’s rather messy hair.“Aiya. Look at you. You’re this old and already have a kid but you still look so unkempt.” She comments.“Ma!” Wang YiBo pulls away from his mother, embarrassed. His hand flies up to comb his own hair with his fingers.Wang Mama clacks her tongue. “What? You’re too old now to let your mother help you look good? Look at Xiao Zhan!”Xiao Zhan blinks, raising his eyes from Xiao Ying who is currently busy telling her laolao about the fishes she saw. Xiao Mama, who happens to hear this, flits her eyes for a second from Xiao Ying to Xiao Zhan. She pretends not to smile too proudly at her son. Of course. Her ZhanZhan is always exemplary wherever he goes. Xiao Zhan only smiles and decides to ignore it. Wang YiBo scoots away and pretends to be busy with Xiao Ying’s baby bag.“It’s time for YingYing’s milk. Right, Ge?” He asks.Xiao Zhan pities him and nods. Wang Mama now complains that Xiao Zhan spoils Wang YiBo so much and Xiao Zhan laughs. “A-Yi, didn’t you see I put him to work? How is it spoiling him?”Wang YiBo ignores them and starts to make Xiao Ying’s milk. They (well, Xiao Zhan, that is) never go anywhere without a big baby bag now. If Wang YiBo is home, it is his duty to pack everything into the baby bag. He does this on his own accord and he follows Xiao Zhan’s direction to the dot. He’s also quite expert in mixing Xiao Ying milk, getting the temperature right and everything.Xiao Ying sees him do this and decides to make grabbing gesture hands toward her feeding bottle. Everyone cooes at her. Xiao Ying is now around twenty months old and in the peak of being a chubby child. Xiao Zhan often catches Wang YiBo gnawing at their daughter’s cheeks and narrows his eyes disapprovingly at him but then he shuts up because Wang YiBo then caught him doing the same thing. “Just don’t slobber her. It’s gross.” Xiao Zhan said then and Wang YiBo snorted so hard at him.As soon as Wang YiBo is done mixing Xiao Ying’s milk and testing the temperature, Xiao Zhan takes the bottle of Wang YiBo, makes sure of the temperature, then offers the bottle to Xiao Ying. Xiao Ying grabs the side of the bottle with her little hands but Xiao Zhan doesn’t let go of the bottle yet. She still is not able to tip the bottle to the right angle by herself yet. Xiao Zhan lets go as soon as Xiao Ying is comfortable and she leans her cheek against Xiao Zhan’s chest.Their food comes and Wang YiBo eyes the food curiously. His eyes go wide when the waiter puts a bowl of glass noodle with braised pork on the table. “This is for me, right?” He looks expectantly around the table.Xiao Zhan nods and Wang YiBo happily pulls the bowl toward himself and starts eating eagerly. Wang Mama and Xiao Mama are also busy telling him to try the other side dishes too. They chat idly as the three eat. Xiao Zhan doesn’t eat until after Xiao Mama finishes eating so she can take Xiao Ying from him. Xiao Ying whines and clutches on Xiao Zhan’s shirt tightly, not wanting to move. Xiao Mama tries to coax her by pointing to the window right beside her but Xiao Ying shakes her head. Xiao Zhan kisses the top of his daughter’s head. “It’s okay, Ma. I’ll just eat this.” He says, nodding to a stir fried near him which he can pick with a chopstick carefully without having to move his hands so much.“YingYing, come here.” Wang YiBo says after wiping his mouth and drinking his water.Xiao Ying peers at her other father and Xiao Zhan, noticing that Wang YiBo also has finished eating, offers gently. “Want to go to A-Die?”Xiao Ying looks up at Xiao Zhan then to Wang YiBo, who still has his arms open for her. Then, she stretches like she wants to slide off Xiao Zhan’s lap. “Sit with A-Die.”“Okay.” Xiao Zhan gently lifts her up while Wang YiBo stands up to take her. Xiao Ying wriggles around in Wang YiBo’s arms, her bottle still latched on her mouth, before settling down. Wang YiBo coos at her and kisses her cheek. Wang Mama now can kiss her granddaughter too and Xiao Ying grabs her nainai’s hand. Xiao Zhan shakes his head in amusement before he starts eating what’s left on the table (still quite a lot).“So, ZhanZhan, your mother and I thought that around this time next year would be a good time for your wedding. What do you think?” Wang Mama asks without any warning.Xiao Zhan almost chokes on a string bean. Xiao Mama clacks her tongue. “Why did you look so surprised? Aren’t we here to talk about your wedding?”“I thought you missed YingYing!” Xiao Zhan’s pitch goes up a little.Hearing her name is mentioned, Xiao Ying turns and grins around her bottle at her father.“Nevermind that. Of course we missed YingYing.” Wang Mama says. “So, what do you think?”“Ma! Shouldn’t I be asked about this too? Why did you only ask Xiao Zhan?” Wang YiBo scowls at his mother.Wang Mama waves her hand dismissively in front of Wang YiBo’s face. “At the rate the two of you are going, you’re not going to get married in seven years! And I asked ZhanZhan because obviously he’s going to marry into our family, right?” She looks at Xiao Mama. Apparently the two of them already talked about this too.Xiao Zhan holds the urge to pinch the bridge of his nose. “It’s not like we’re delaying on purpose, A-Yi. But we’re busy. Especially YiBo.” It’s not an excuse. Not really. Wang Han has told both of them that their team will bring Wang YiBo to the international circuit next year so Wang YiBo needs to work hard this year. Xiao Zhan doesn’t find any qualm with it. He supports Wang YiBo’s career wholeheartedly. He has long understood and accepted that Wang YiBo won’t be around all the time the whole year. There really is no resentment about it. He himself is also busy with his own small design company. Now, both of them already found a rhythm about Xiao Ying and it works for them, for now. That’s why they haven’t talked about getting a wedding.In fact, rather than a wedding, Wang YiBo’s goal at the moment is to buy Xiao Zhan a house.They did talk about getting married because Wang YiBo of course remembers his promise to marry Xiao Zhan once Xiao Ying was born. Xiao Zhan isn't reluctant. He loves Wang YiBo so much and now they have Xiao Ying. He’s just being practical about his and Xiao Ying’s future. Call him traditional or whatever but he needs a warranty and safety. And a house will serve as that warranty. Obviously he can buy one on his own but that is not the point. He doesn’t want to insult Wang YiBo or create a misunderstanding between them. When he told Wang YiBo this, his fiance was silent for a long moment before nodding his head.“Zhan-ge,” Wang YiBo said then, “If you want to buy a house, then buy it. But don’t live there. I will buy the one where you and YingYing will live.” He kissed Xiao Zhan deeply. “Also a car.”
  “My car is fine.”
  “Your car is old.”
  “Hey! That car’s been with me forever!”
  “Don’t you think it’s time to let it rest, then? I will buy you a house and a car. Then, after that, we’ll get married.”
  Xiao Zhan kissed him back just as fiercely. “Okay.”
So, they’re not delaying. Not at all. It’s all planned and since a couple of months ago, Xiao Zhan is already going around everywhere riding an all new, very sleek, very multi-purpose SUV (which price he doesn’t dare look up else his eyes will bleed) equipped with a new, also very sleek, very sturdy, and very comfortable baby car seat. Xiao Ying loves the car seat.“That is precisely why your mother and I decided to take everything in our hands, ZhanZhan. We know the both of you are busy! You children really don’t need to think or worry about a thing!” Wang Mama insists.“ZhanZhan ah, you already gave us a granddaughter. Very cute and smart.” Xiao Mama slides in smoothly. She beams to Xiao Ying who is already finishing her milk and now half-asleep in Wang YiBo’s arms. She then takes Xiao Zhan’s hand that’s not holding chopsticks and pats the back of her son’s hand. “Won’t you give us a son-in-law too?”“A-Yi,” Wang YiBo grins mischievously, “am I not already your son-in-law?”Xiao Zhan kicks him under the table. How can this kid be so shameless?? Wang YiBo winces for a second but decides to ignore Xiao Zhan. He maintains the grin on his face. Xiao Mama laughs, blushing a little. “Aiya, this boy!”Wang Mama slaps Wang YiBo’s arm too but not too hard because she doesn’t want to jostle Xiao Ying up. “What? Am I wrong?”“Wang YiBo, ni bizui.” Xiao Zhan hisses, not too loud so Xiao Ying won’t hear him. He looks at his daughter carefully but Xiao Ying is fast asleep. Her bottle is already put away on the table by Wang YiBo. “Put her on the stroller.” Xiao Zhan sighs.“It’s okay.” Wang YiBo refuses. He just came back from a week long training camp the day before and has been missing his daughter like crazy so if he can hold Xiao Ying, he won’t let go. Xiao Zhan sighs again and leaves him be. Xiao Ying looks comfortable too.Both Xiao Mama and Wang Mama are looking at the scene with hearts in their eyes. Look at them! They are a family already. Why won’t they get married already? Such nonsense!Xiao Mama leans closer toward her son, wrapping her fingers around Xiao Zhan’s elbow as she whispers. “ZhanZhan, answer me truthfully, do you want to marry YiBo or not?”“Ma, we’re engaged!” Xiao Zhan looks at her mother incredulously.“That doesn’t answer my question!” Xiao Mama hisses.Xiao Zhan takes a deep breath. His expression softens as he takes a look at Wang YiBo and their daughter. “Yes. Of course I want to marry him.”“Then it’s settled. Don’t argue with your mother anymore.”“Ma, it’s not that I--” Xiao Zhan closes his mouth at the look his mother is giving him. Once again, he looks at Wang YiBo, their daughter, and his future mother-in-law. His own mother rarely objects to the things Xiao Zhan decided to do throughout his life. They argue and bicker but his parents always support him. Even when they found out that he was pregnant, they didn’t say much and only hugged him and encouraged him to do what he thought is right. Xiao Zhan reaches out and squeezes his mother’s hand warmly. “Okay. Do whatever you want, Ma.”Wang YiBo cocks his eyebrow at him while Xiao Zhan just smiles.*Very gently, Wang YiBo pulls himself out of Xiao Zhan. After rolling off the condom and ties it securely, he throws it into the bin with quite an accuracy. He then pulls some wet wipes from the night stand and uses it to clean himself and then help Xiao Zhan. A blissed out Xiao Zhan is always too lazy to move and Wang YiBo likes to tease him about it. He smirks and Xiao Zhan only nudges Wang YiBo’s thigh with his leg. Too fucked out and content to even retaliate. But he kisses Wang YiBo sweetly after they get somewhat cleaned.They get under the cover after putting on their underwear back on. It’s a habit they started to pick up on since Xiao Ying woke up in the middle of the night and sneaked into their room, looking for comfort from her parents because she had a nightmare. Xiao Ying still doesn’t understand anything but Xiao Zhan is reluctant to let her know that her parents sometimes like to fall asleep naked. They can do that again when she’s older and they have taught her about privacy but not now.“That was nice.” Wang YiBo mumbles against Xiao Zhan’s lips.Xiao Zhan raises an eyebrow. “Only nice? Wang-laoshi is too strict ah.”Wang YiBo snort. “That’s highly enough praise for an old man.” Then he yelps, his face twisting in agony because Xiao Zhan pinches him on his side. “I’m wrong! I’m wrong! Xiao Zhan is still so young and full of vigour!”Xiao Zhan attacks Wang YiBo’s chest now. “Lower your voice!” He hisses. “You’ll wake YingYing! Tian ah!”Wang YiBo pouts, rubbing the spot assaulted by his fiance. “She had drained her energy running around the mall. She won’t wake up even if you moaned as loud as usual, Ge. Don’t hit me!”So Xiao Zhan only lightly swats his fiance’s arm then rolls his eyes at him. Still, he perks his ears to check if there’s any sound from Xiao Ying’s bedroom. Xiao Ying’s bedroom is just beside their bedroom. They’re still living in Xiao Zhan’s apartment. Originally, there’s only one bedroom: the one where they slept. Xiao Ying’s bedroom used to be a small storeroom which was then repurposed.After making sure that their daughter is still sleeping soundly, Xiao Zhan relaxes again and snuggles closer to Wang YiBo. Wang YiBo latches to Xiao Zhan’s side like an octopus, tangling their long legs. They lose themselves in a slow kiss before they pull away and Wang YiBo shrugs his face against Xiao Zhan’s shoulder. He’s already a bit drowsy when Xiao Zhan asks him something.“Bo-di, how are you doing with the house hunting?”Wang YiBo nuzzles Xiao Zhan’s shoulder with his nose. “Hmm. The real estate agent sent me several pictures. I like two of them. I want you to come with me to see them.”“That’s good. Are we going to see them soon?” Xiao Zhan asks again. His hand moves to caress Wang YiBo’s arm that is thrown across his middle.“Anytime you want. I don’t have to go back to practice until next week.” Wang YiBo starts to yawn.“Mn..” Xiao Zhan hums. He then adds after a moment. “I have a meeting tomorrow so let’s go the day after tomorrow.”“Sure. I’ll call the agent.”“Mn. Then, after that, let’s go register our marriage.”Wang YiBo pauses mid-yawn then looks at his fiance. Xiao Zhan is looking back at him with an unreadable look. He shifts to lie on his side, facing Wang YiBo. His hand reaches out to caress Wang YiBo’s jawline with a knuckle. “Ma asked me something today.” Wang YiBo only looks on, waiting for Xiao Zhan to continue. “She asked if I want to marry you or not. I was speechless. I thought that intention was clear? I mean, we’re engaged. I have a ring. But I think Ma wasn’t doubting our intention to marry, she’s just worried that I’m still overthinking things.”“Are you?” Wang YiBo asks silently. His hand has gone to rest on Xiao Zhan’s back. His thumb makes a gentle circular motion against Xiao Zhan’s skin.Xiao Zhan shakes his head. “I’m not. Not about this. You already bought me a car and you are buying me a house. I have no reason to.” He leans in, touching his forehead with Wang YiBo’s chin. “I do want to marry you, Wang YiBo. I want to call you my husband.”Next thing he knows, Wang YiBo is pouncing on him. His mouth is ravished passionately and Xiao Zhan can’t do anything but kiss back with the same passion and feelings. He guesses this means that they’re getting married soon.*
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          topazium, Aceijun_no1, YEETING_LAOZHU, 05_YiZhan_05, Novit, Min_Rosie0903, awkwardy, Kore29, Bullet_in_your_heart_38, TATA95and97COOKY, uchihacaroline, Mrs_Harry_Holmes, siler30, lizaj1129, Aside1016, Skittles__phan, chillaxbts, SeroMinutes, Fataflox, zackkieZ, C_bas7, Raene, jess_chibi, NovaSterne, AkatCuties, Bubble90, MayC_0596, imabithungry, loneliestar, miraged_dreams, FlowerInAdversity, aidenparadise, MICKEYANDIANHUSBANDS, candylight, HL_Kyuu, quecherry, Raven666, Hanakahime, hanbunnotsuki, tincan, TheiaP, ichigohaatsu, Phenix978, Mayaryanne, rossxlla, huanghou, noelle321xyz, pearlredlatte, ToForgetEnvies, hannah1s, 
               and 25 more users
            kai_24, starlit_taekook, notginnyweasley, seishirou99, shiroki_kun, Yizhanjk, CecileRichie, LRR, bapi588, iampepijyg, violetbronte, pinkcarnations, Dr_rude, Pringlesgonnapring, Netbush, bbydiamond, Auroa_wings1994, procrastinatopotato, Luchi2003, Lunar_Bunny, Tammarita, dusty_winged, Romance146, KimCrystal12 and RaeRae_GoneAway
             as well as 
          21 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
