      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Filter
4. Flashback
5. Chapter 5
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               Gen
              Fandoms:
               The Flash (TV 2014)Arrow (TV 2012)
              Relationships:
               Barry Allen/Oliver QueenLaurel Lance/Eddie ThawneCisco Ramon/Hartley RathawayRonnie Raymond/Caitlin Snow
              Characters:
               Barry AllenOliver QueenLaurel LanceCisco RamonCaitlin SnowEobard Thawne | Harrison WellsOMC- Jayden "Jay" AllenEddie ThawneDavid SinghRonnie RaymondHartley Rathaway
              Additional Tags:
               Past Abuseand sexual assaultof a minorAnd only mentionedJealous! EobardPossessive! Eobardhe is a stalkerand obsessedwith Barry AllenBAMF! Barry AllenMetahuman! CiscoMetahuman! CaitlinBarry lives in StarlingNot adopted by Joe WestWorks at SCPDand QChappens off screen
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-07-31Updated:2020-09-10Words:19461Chapters:5/?Comments:67Kudos:59Bookmarks:14Hits:1055
      Reimagine
      Shinigaminoko
      Chapter 5
    Chapter Text
  Disclaimer: I don't own The Flash or Arrow.
"... they were gone for a week, before he brought them back." Laurel glanced towards the bed, "He appeared outside a hospital in Starling and left both Oliver and Barry there. Oliver was the one who took Barry into the hospital and contacted the rest of us."
Cisco and Caitlin were speechless after hearing a story like that, what could they possibly have said. They'd never met anyone who had been kidnapped before. "What happened to them? He just left them there?"
Laurel nodded her head. "Oliver was checked over and was recommended to stay the night so they could monitor his vitals. He had a mild case of dehydration and malnutrition, but no further sign of abuse."
"And Barry?"
"Barry and Oliver never went into full detail about what that man had done to him, not even to the officers. But, with the test the doctors ran and the experience the detectives had, they all knew what Barry and Oliver weren't saying." Laurel lowered her head. "And Barry's reactions and mannerism changed... it wasn't long until Tommy and I realized what had happened to him." Clenching her hands into fist, Laurel gritted her teeth in anger. "The son of a bitch, whoever, whatever, he is, hurt Barry so damn badly, it was a miracle he hadn't been killed."
"He was hurt that badly?" Cisco and Caitlin were horrified.
Laurel nodded her head, slowly, "Again, Oliver and Barry never explained in great detail what happened but we were able to piece together things they would let slip from time to time and my dad and Barry's dad would help fill in gaps that Tommy and I couldn't solve on our own." She stared at the bedridden boy, "No one could come up behind Barry and touch him or he'd panic. If Barry was distracted and wasn't paying any attention, we would have to announce our presence so we wouldn't startle him." Laurel bit on her bottom lip, "I remember this one time, We were all heading towards Big Belly Burger, and a stranger accidently bumped into Barry, and he was hysterical. It took the thee of us at least ten minutes to calm him down. To reassure him that he was safe and no one was going to hurt him."
Caitlin and Cisco shared a look, understanding what Laurel wasn't saying. "He was sexually abused?"
Laurel closed her eyes and leaned back against her seat, nodding her head. "It was so hard to watch Barry go threw something like that and not be able to really help him. Oliver was angry all the time unless he was around Barry. He blamed himself for not being able to stop Barry from being abused." She placed a hand on Barry's arm, "That man kept them separated. Oliver said he was kept in a locked room and chained against a wall. He never saw Barry, but he constantly heard him crying or screaming; begging for the pain to stop. The sounds of Barry's pain tortured Oliver, even months after they were brought back."
"Because he was there but couldn't help, is that why Oliver blamed himself for what happened to Barry?"
"I think so."
"Was the abuse only sexual?"
Laurel slowly shook her head. "No. When Barry was in the hospital, the doctors mentioned that he had been beaten thoroughly. By fist, feet and weapons. He had cuts and bruises littering his bodies, in various shades of healing. When he was brought in, he had multiple rib fractures on both sides, one dangerously close to puncturing a lung. He was suffering from dehydration, malnutrition and I believe the only reason that monster brought Barry and Oliver back was because he got careless and Barry fell ill. He had gotten an infection that would have killed him had he not been taken to the hospital when he had been."
The two remained silent as they watched Laurel.
"While Barry was at home recovering, the doctors and the officers thought it would be beneficial to both Barry and us if the principal and the faculty knew what had happed to him; so they could be better prepared and would know what do or expect when he returned. Oliver, Tommy and I didn't agree at first. We didn't think it was fair for Barry to let everyone know what had happened to him, especially since it wasn't his choice. But, Jay had pulled us aside and explained that it would be better for Barry in the long run because the teachers would be aware of the situation and could stop anyone from triggering him unknowingly. We agreed, reluctantly, we knew as soon as the teachers found out what had happened, it would only be a matter of time before the students would start hearing about it... and they did... within weeks of Barry returning to school, the entire student body had heard about what had happened to him."
"Did the teachers tell them?"
"I don't they did intentionally, you know how it is. They go home, talk to their spouse or family members and they tell people they know and so on and so forth."
"How did the other students react?"
"Surprisingly, most of the other students were compassionate and kind. They were patient and understanding when approaching Barry and very cautious, often times they would make exaggerated hand movements and make loud noises before even walking in his direction just to lessen the possibility of startling him." Laurel whispered, tears filling her eyes as she remembered that event. "It was the first time I witnessed an entire student body come together like that."
Cisco smiled. "That was nice of them. My classmates wouldn't have done something like that."
"Oh, we had those students who didn't care about what had happened to Barry. Thought he deserved it or had even ask for it to happen to him. They made fun of him and bullied him. But they quickly learned why doing something like that, hadn't been such a good idea once Tommy and Oliver had gotten a hold of them. They hadn't been the only ones who had defended Barry. Many of the other students didn't think it was funny and even the jocks of the school hadn't tolerated the bullying. They were quick to put a stop to anyone who thought it was okay to pick on an abused victim."
Cisco and Caitlin looked impressed by that. "Didn't they get in trouble? For fighting?"
Laurel snickered, shaking her head. "My father and Barry's are detectives. Barry spent so many years hanging around the SCPD as a kid, that he was pretty much adopted by most of the officers, detectives and CSI's at the station. Let's just say, no one even batted an eyelash when they found out why several teenagers were brought to the station. Everyone who had help to defend Barry was actually thanked for what they did and released without even a warning."
"That's nice."
"And you and Oliver were able to patch up your friendship. Did it happen because of this event?"
"Yeah. We all wanted, needed, to make Barry feel somewhat normal and the best way to do that was to make him feel as normal as possible. We had him go back to tutoring Tommy; this time around, Oliver joined in, he wanted to make a change and because I didn't want to be left out, I tagged along as well. It wasn't easy at first, being so close to Oliver, but I knew Barry needed all of us. Eventually I was able to forgive him for what he had done, especially after I finally decided to hear him out." Laurel sighed, "I already knew Sara had planned to sleep with Oliver, but finding out he hadn't planned to cheat on me with my sister, help to at least lessen the sting of the betrayal."
"Were you able to forgive Sara or your mother?"
"I wanted to. But, every time I looked at them, I... " Laurel shrugged her shoulder, "It didn't matter anyways. As soon as she could, Sara packed and left without saying a word. And our mother left shortly after Sara did. They both left without any explanation. Broke my fathers heart more then mine."
"And you haven't spoken to either of them since they left?"
Laurel shook her head, "No. Like I said, they didn't say where they were going, just packed up and left. Sara had her number changed, so we couldn't even call her. Not like it mattered much, they knew where we were and what our numbers are... they were the ones who never came back, or tried to contact us."
"Wow, that really sucks." Cisco murmured.
"Just realized how dysfunctional my family really is." Laurel commented off hand.
Sharing a look, Cisco and Caitlin nodded and turned back towards Laurel, "I guess most families are. Cisco and I would know that better then most. But at least you still have your dad."
Laurel shrugged, "I guess. Some days are better then most." She replied, "We do have our moments but if it wasn't for Barry, we'd be worse off."
"He holds you and your dad together?"
"He is the voice of reason. He tells us when we are being ridiculous and when we need to take a step and breath. He isn't afraid to put us in our place if he has to." Laurel smiled. "And my father and I need that. We're often combatant and stubborn. And we always have to be right."
"Sounds like an interesting guy." Cisco grinned. "I can't wait to get to know him."
Laurel nodded her head. "Best guy that I know." She murmured. "After high school, we decided to go to the same university, together, even Oliver, which had surprised just about everyone that has ever known him. In the last year before graduation, and with Barry's tutoring, he'd been able to raise his grades from failing fantastically to passing with flying colors." She shook her head with a grin, "We don't know how Oliver had managed to do it, but we were impressed and really proud of all the hard work he put in."
"I'll say." Cisco inclined his head, "Not everyone would be able to make that kind of leap. I'm impressed as well."
"Oliver gave the credit to Barry, but Barry denied it, said Oliver was the one who did all the work, all he did was tutor him."
"So you four ended up going to university together?"
"Tommy, Oliver and I did, yes." Shooting a fond look towards the bed, Laurel grinned, "Barry on the other hand, decided to take online classes. He said it would be better for him and he would be able to work at his own pace." Cisco and Caitlin looked confused at that, "Remember, Barry was allot younger then Tommy, Oliver and I when we all graduated from high school. He was almost 13." He shot the two S.T.A.R. Labs employees a derisive look. "And when I mentioned he wanted to work at his own pace, I didn't mean he wanted to take his time, no, he wanted to take all the course he wanted without the waiting."
"What do you mean?"
"Let's just say, by the time Tommy, Oliver and I were finished with our first year of University, Barry had already obtained his double major in forensic chemistry and was working on turning that into a PH'D along with doing several other science courses, he was also taking business classes and engineering ones."
"Wow. He is an overachiever." Cisco whistled, "Did he accomplish everything he wanted to do?"
Laurel nodded her head. "By the time he was 16, he had PH'D's in forensic chemistry, and a trio of engineering ones. He had double majored in both business and criminology and law. He probably has a few more, but those were the only ones I could remember him talking about."
"When you said he was a genius, you weren't kidding." Cisco's jaw dropped, "He could literally get a job anywhere with degrees like that. And what about you, Tommy and Oliver? What were you guys taking up."
"I was majoring in Law while both Oliver and Tommy were taking business classes." Laurel leaned back in her seat, she didn't know why she was telling basically her entire life story to these two, but for some reason, she had a feeling these two would be a permanent fixture in her life even after Barry wakes up. And talking really helped, it was better then just sitting in the room in silence. The next memory was the hardest one yet, second only to the day Barry had been abused.
"Robert Queen, Oliver's father, decided he wanted to take us on a trip with him. He was heading to China on the Queen's Gambit and wanted to take us with him as a treat for everything we've accomplished in the last three years. We agreed. The night before we were suppose to leave, Tommy ends up calling all of us, pissed off and upset because apparently at the last minute, his father, Malcolm, decided to give him a job at their company, knowing about the upcoming trip."
"That sucks." Cisco winced. "He purposely did that so his son wouldn't be able to go on that trip?"
Laurel nodded her head. Knowing what she did now, it all made sense. She had always wondered why Malcolm did that, and it also explained how both her and Barry were called to shadow two people who were highly sought out in their chosen career fields. "Yeah. He did. But Tommy wasn't the only who wouldn't be going on that trip. The day of, when I was about to leave my apartment to head to the pier, I got a call from one of the best DA's in Starling and was offered the opportunity to shadow him. It was a once in the lifetime choices. I tried to ask for a later date, but it was either then or never." She glanced towards the bed, "Barry got a call from the SCPD CSI director himself. He offered Barry an intern position, working alongside him, for the entire summer, with pay."
"Wow, so all three of you were stopped from taking that trip."
Laurel nodded her head. They were purposely held back from boarding the Queen's Gambit. She had a feeling Malcolm had pulled several strings in order to ensure both her and Barry wouldn't have gotten on the Gambit. She had to wonder why he allowed Oliver to get on the Gambit. They knew now, his target had been Robert, so why try to kill Oliver as well, knowing he was Tommy's bestfriend. She shook her head. She'd never be able to understand, so it was better to stop thinking about that memory.
"Wait... is that?" Cisco's eyes widened.
"When the Queen's Gambit sank and Oliver was stranded on that Island?" Caitlin finished.
Laurel nodded her head. "Yeah. Everyone who found out Tommy, Barry and I were suppose to have gone with Oliver and Robert, always makes references to Final Destination or would make comments about how lucky we were that we hadn't gone with them. That we were saved." She crossed her arms. "They didn't even care about the pain we were going through. Some people were really callous and obnoxious and often times found themselves on the wrong side of Barry's temper."
"Barry's temper?"
"He might be kindhearted, forgiving and an all around nice person, but Barry does have a temper once it's unleashed. He went nuclear on several paparazzi's who were making snide remarks about the Queens. It was not the first time, but it was certainly the last time something like that had happened. Barry's temper became somewhat legendary after that and no one wanted to push him that far again."
"I'll bet."
"His anger just confirmed something I'd known was there." At the looks she was getting, she smiled. "I had a feeling Barry might have fallen in love with Oliver. It was the little things he did when he was around Oliver. Nothing really noticeable, not unless you knew what to look for. And Oliver... " Laurel shook her head with an amused smile, "I know what he looks like when he is starting to fall in love, and the way he looked at Barry during the days leading up to the Gambits sinking, he loved Barry, or was in the early stages of it at least."
"And you were okay with that?"
"The look he would give Barry when he thought no one was looking... " Laurel started. "It went deeper then any look he had ever given anyone else, including me. He told me once, when we were starting to rebuild our friendship, that he loved me more then he did anyone else he had ever dated. He could have been with me for the rest of his life and would have been happy. But there was always something in him. When he got close to people, there was always a need in him. A need to flee, to runaway. And he did. He sabotages all of his relationships because of this need."
Cisco and Caitlin stared at Laurel, curious.
"The look he gave Barry... " She paused, a faraway look in her eyes, "It was a bittersweet realization loving Oliver, who had never, not once, looked at me the way he looked at Barry." Laurel paused. "He might have loved me more then he loved anyone else that he dated, but he loved Barry better then he loved the rest of us. Oliver would never be able to live with himself if he ever hurt Barry the way he did the rest of us."
"Are they dating?"
Laurel snorted, "Not yet. I don't know what they are waiting for. Heck, I'm pretty sure Thea is planning their wedding."
There was a brief moment of silence while all eyes stared at the young man laid out on the bed.
A tap on the door drew everyone's attention. "Jay!" Laurel greeted, standing, "Are you on your lunch break?"
Nodding his head, Jay walked towards the bed, "How is everyone today? And how is Barry doing?"
"He is doing much better. His vitals are looking good, they are improving more and more everyday. We are quite confident that Barry will wake up any moment now." Caitlin replied with a nod of her head. "And I'm doing well today, thank you for asking, and yourself?"
Jay smiled at the young lady, "I'm fine, thanks." He glanced towards Laurel and Cisco.
"I'm fine as well. Thanks for asking."
"And I'm good. Would be even better if Barry would wake up already. You'd think sleeping beauty already had enough rest. His already young and beautiful, just how much more rest could he possibly need?" Laurel teased.
Jay laughed. "Apparently he likes being mistaken for a 12 year old." He joked back.
'Harrison Wells' stared at the group from his place in the Cortex, well more specifically, the person on the bed, as he recalled the moment he'd taken Barry Allen from Starling, he had an unexpected hitchhiker, but Oliver Queen before he became the Green Arrow was not a problem just an annoyance.
It had taken him a long time to find Barry's location. And once he did, he immediately went in search of him. He only wanted to see the boy, that was it. You could only imagine his surprise upon finding him with Oliver Queen when in the future they were barely even friends. Upset by this development, he had taken the boy, a bad judgement call on his part, he admits but he needed to get Barry away from Oliver or the future as he knows it will cease to exist. What he hadn't expected was the future Arrow jumping on his back as he sped away.
He had tossed Oliver into a room and chained him to the wall before locking the door. He had taken Barry and strapped him to a bed while trying to decide what he would do with him. Having his obsession so close, in touching distance for the first time in fifteen years... he couldn't help but indulge a bit. His cries and screams were music to his ears. After holding him prisoner for a week, he'd gotten careless, hadn't made sure Barry's wounds were properly cared for and when he started getting feverish, he knew Barry needed medical help. So, he took both him and Oliver back to Starling City. Although he was reluctant, he couldn't afford to mess with the timeline more then he already had and if Barry died before he became The Flash, he would never be able to return home. Without Barry Allen, there would be no speed force and no speed force meant no speedsters and no speedsters meant he'd be trap here... forever... and that was not acceptable.
Just thinking about that week he had Barry, it sent a shiver down Eobard's spine, a smile curled his lips at the memory. He'd tortured the future Flash in every way he could think of. And it was those memories that kept him going for the last 10 years after returning him to Starling. After the particle accelerator exploded and he got custody over Barry... well, the things he did with the boy, no one needed to know."
"Doctor Wells!"
Blinking, Eobard yanked himself out of his thoughts and turned his attention towards the speaker, "Oh, detective Allen. I thought you were visiting your son?"
"I did, but lunch is only so long. I have to get back to work." Jay stared at the man who had opened up his lab in order to help Barry recover. He didn't trust the man as far as he could throw him, but if he could help his son, then that was the only thing that mattered, for now. "Just wanted to make sure you were alright, You looked lost in thought."
Wells nodded his head. "Everything is fine. Just thinking." Placing his hands on his lap, he smiled. "Your son is improving greatly. We have faith that he'll wake up any moment now."
Jay slowly nodded his head, eyes narrowed and a frown threatened to pull at his lips. "I'll see you tomorrow then." He hated leaving his son alone with this man he didn't trust but as long as Laurel, Caitlin and Cisco were here, he knew Barry would be safe.
Wells inclined his head, watching as the detective walked away before turning to face the room the future Flash was in. A small smile curled Eobard's lips, 'You'll be up soon Barry, and when you are, the real fun will begin.'
~..~..~..~..~..~..~..~
   End Chapter 
~..~..~..~..~..~..~..~
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (7)
  Comments
          Butterhenn, Dineriis, theBlackmoon64, TheGeekGurl, WitherAndDecay, Ladylow, purkayasthariya, GDLRR, Void_19Winchester, Autumns_Angel, TiteQuebeke, ByRowena, WillowDrewWinchester, Skyfirelove, vkookneo_r_bae, LightningIstg, Barby, quilinusa, Mezhlauk, Dragonfire13, Nell_Daniels, Spirit4590, Hgjjgnk, bambiSteve, craftfyre, Nevraukowen, Shealpha4016, Hyper365, Cris_Snow, LaahGomes, and Shaunalaw
             as well as 
          28 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
