      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Bad Romance
2. Los Angeles
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               明日方舟 | Arknights (Video Game)
              Relationship:
               Executor/Flamebringer (Arknights)
              Characters:
               Flamebringer (Arknights)Executor (Arknights)Mostima (Arknights)
              Additional Tags:
               ProstitutionSpies &amp; Secret AgentsmafiaUndercover MissionsAlternate Universe - No Oripathy
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-06-24Updated:2020-06-29Words:6363Chapters:2/?Comments:7Kudos:59Bookmarks:7Hits:573
      Untangentiality
      shacchi
          Summary:
              To Flamebringer, Executor is Angel, a beautiful escort given to him for a fun night. To Executor, Flamebringer is another thug playing boss in the wrong place. They should have only crossed path once before becoming a distant memory. It should be all there is to it.
Of course, it is never that simple.
      Chapter 1: Bad Romance
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Executor gasps when the man beneath him finally releases his kiss. He inhales the much-needed oxygen, but his partner seems too impatient to let him finish. He mouths at Executor’s jaw then down to his neck, sucking reddening bruises that’ll surely let everyone know what he’s done the previous night. His hands are busy tracing every inches of Executor’s exposed skin. His right hand stops at Executor’s nipple, rubbing it roughly to incite another reaction.
“A-aah...” Executor moans loudly. Pleasure spreads from his chest into his twitching dick. There’s barely enough friction. He grinds his hips against his partner, brushing their cocks together.
The man looks at him with fiery lust in his eyes, which reminds Executor of his name. Flamebringer, that was what he said during their introduction. Executor would’ve pondered more over the unusual name if he’s not fully occupied with trying to achieve a good, thorough fucking at the moment.
Flamebringer’s hands move to cup Executor’s buttocks. He spreads them wide, and soon Executor feels a finger rubbing against his entrance. He jolts when without further ado the finger enters, just up to the first knuckle, as if testing the waters.
“Wow, look at you,” Flamebringer chuckles, “you’re swallowing me up like that.”
Executor flushes at that. He tries to distract him by pulling him into another heated kiss. Flamebringer hums against his lips, once again exploring Executor’s mouth with his tongue. It’s clear that the taller man is skilled. Executor circles his arms around Flamebringer’s neck to pull him closer, craving for more.
“Easy, gorgeous,” Flamebringer breathes out hotly. He bites Executor’s lower lips, looking like he enjoys making them swell up even more. Executor lets out a throaty whine that gets swallowed up immediately by another kiss.
Another finger joins Flamebringer’s first inside Executor, this time burying themselves deeper. Executor squirms, his body feeling uncomfortable yet yearning for the unfamiliar burn. His fingers grasp at Flamebringer’s navy locks tightly to anchor himself.
Flamebringer seems to find it arousing. He spreads his fingers to loosen Executor up while none-too-gently rubbing everywhere inside. Moans and gasps spill unbidden from Executor’s lips, which only serves to fuel Flamebringer’s desire.
And then, he hits it. The spot that forces a keening whine out of Executor. His cheeks are flushed red up to his ears and down his neck. Saliva drips down the corner of his panting mouth. His pupils quiver from the sudden jolt of pleasure that spreads throughout his body. Flamebringer notices, of course, and the view—of an angel, a creature of light and holiness, being bathed in debauchery under his ministration—is all it takes for him to amp it up.
All self-preservations are thrown out the window the moment Flamebringer focuses on jabbing his fingers against Executor’s prostate. The Sankta’s legs are trembling and barely able to hold Executor’s bodyweight anymore. Flamebringer takes pity of him and helps by holding him up by the waist. His grip is bruising, and Flamebringer knows he’s going to see reddening handprints on it the next morning. He’s always been rather territorial with his partners, leaving his marks where people can see, but the person on his bed tonight makes him lust like none other.
Flamebringer mouths Executor’s earlobes, whispering lowly, “Gonna fuck you so hard, angel.”
Executor lets out a breathy, “Yes,” that goes straight to Flamebringer’s dick. He’s been hard for a while, and he’s going to burst if he doesn’t come anytime soon.
“So pretty,” Flamebringer marvels as he sucks hickeys into Executor’s neck and collarbone. “And so obedient for me, aren’t you?”
Executor nods. He looks like he’s just as desperate as Flamebringer is in chasing his high, if the way his hips are grinding against Flamebringer is any indication.
Flamebringer grabs the blond by his jaw and forces his lips open for another open-mouthed kiss. This one doesn’t last as long, but it’s enough to send Executor into a temporary daze. There’s a thin string of saliva connecting their lips that makes Flamebringer wonder how those lips would look like around his cock.
So he does just that.
Flamebringer pulls Executor’s face down to his crotch, right in front of his fully erect penis. His hand caresses Executor’s cheek gently, contrasting the filthy look he’s giving the man.
“You know what to do, don’t you?” he asks.
Executor looks up at him and blinks once before diving down and swallows Flamebringer’s cock. Flamebringer bucks his hips, shocked by the sudden onslaught of pleasure. Executor pulls back, gagging slightly on the thick member suddenly hitting the back of his throat, but he doesn’t let go. He lets Flamebringer get used to the warmth of his mouth by alternating between lightly suckling on the crown and running his tongue on the veiny underside.
Flamebringer mutters a low, “Fuck,” under his breath, his hand grabbing Executor’s head to prevent him from stopping. Instead, he steadily urges him to take him deeper. He’s not usually this impatient, and this isn’t even the best blowjob he’s ever gotten, but there’s an inherent eroticism of a Sankta succumbing to his desires in his hands that pushes him over the edge.
Executor breathes carefully through his nose before taking more of Flamebringer’s cock in his mouth. The length stimulates his uvula, triggering his gag reflex that Executor tries to minimize. The gentle pressure on his head encourages him to take the man all the way.
After what feels like a mile, Executor feels the head of the penis hit the back of his throat and slides in. His eyes tear up while he’s focusing on trying to breathe. The realization that he’s deepthroating a man he’s just met sends his body shuddering and forces a moan out of him. The vibration travels straight to Flamebringer’s cock. Somehow he still manages to hold still and not choke Executor, but it takes tremendous effort.
Flamebringer suddenly remembers his neglected job. He grabs the tube of lubrication and resumes fingering Executor. The blond makes a choked-out sound when again a foreign object enters him, but he adjusts quicker this time. Flamebringer isn’t certain that he’ll be able to hold out any longer, with the way Executor’s warm, wet mouth envelops him to the hilt, so he quickly loosens Executor up with two, then three fingers.
Even with just three fingers, it feels tight. Executor’s insides are squeezing Flamebringer’s digits. His dick twitches imagining how it’ll feel when he finally bottoms out inside. For now, he needs to make sure he’d prepare Executor enough to let the Sankta take him.
“Enough,” Flamebringer says while pushing Executor off his cock. Immediately, saliva flows down the blond’s mouth, some dribbling onto the sheets. There’s a dazed quality in his expression that’s endearing and arousing to Flamebringer. He wipes Executor’s mouth and steals another long kiss.
Executor breathes heavily against Flamebringer’s skin. With their vicinity, Flamebringer can count the number of Executor’s gold-tipped lashes. The smaller man blinks slowly as if trying to sober himself up. He looks up at his partner and asks, hoarsely, “How do you want me?”
A shudder racks Flamebringer’s body. How is it possible for such a vulgar view to also be so picturesque? Oh, Executor is an ocean, and he’s drowning in him.
Flamebringer pins Executor down on the mattress. He swallows him up in a heated, messy kiss. His tongue swirls around inside Executor’s mouth, and his canine teeth leaves a bleeding dent on Executor’s already swollen lips. His hands are busy lubing his cock to prepare for penetration before grabbing Executor by his hip, pinning him down until he can’t move.
Executor’s eyes shoot open when the head of Flamebringer’s cock enters him. He breaks their kiss in favor of groaning. He knows, objectively, that Flamebringer is huge, but it’s different to know a number and actually feeling it inside him. He makes a strangled whine thinking of how there’s still more, and his hips instinctively tries to pull away.
Flamebringer is having none of it. He pulls Executor’s waist hard, driving his cock inside a few inches deeper. Executor whimpers, his blue eyes glassy, incapable of escaping Flamebringer’s strength.
“Relax for me. I promise I’ll make you feel good soon,” Flamebringer shushes him, kissing the unshed tears away from Executor’s eyes.
Executor takes a deep breath and tries to relax his muscles. Gradually, the foreign intrusion feels less painful. The stretch is turning into a dull ache he can endure.
“Good boy.” Flamebringer gives him a gentler kiss. It manages to ease Executor further. His ass isn’t gripping Flamebringer’s cock anymore, at least.
After a while, kissing and groping aren’t enough anymore. Flamebringer raises Executor’s ass slightly while angling himself. Executor belatedly realizes what he intends to do, and only manages an aborted, “Wai—!”
Flamebringer presses his palms against the back of Executor’s thighs, pushing his legs towards his chest, as he bottoms down with a loud slap. Executor makes a choked-up noise, his mouth open in a silent scream. His nails scratch red lines on Flamebringer’s pectorals as he grapples for something to hold onto. Flamebringer winces at the sharp sting, but it pales in comparison to the overwhelming feeling of finally being fully sheathed inside Executor.
The angel is tight. His insides are gripping around Flamebringer’s cock, desperate in a futile attempt to prevent the foreign object from entering further, but it only serves to heighten Flamebringer’s desire. It’s unreal how good he’s feeling. It’s like Executor is milking his cock dry.
“I’m moving,” he tells Executor.
The Sankta seems too dazed to register the words. Flamebringer tightens his hold on Executor’s waist before he starts thrusting in and out. Executor finds his voice back with a shocked gasp, and more moans and aborted words come out. Flamebringer wants to kiss him badly, but the sounds Executor is making is melody to his ears, so he settles by biting and sucking Executor’s pale skin. His ear, jaw, neck, collarbone, and even nipples are mottled with blossoming bruises and bitemarks.
Flamebringer makes a slight angle change and immediately Executor’s eyes widen, fresh tears spilling down his cheeks. His nails embed themselves into Flamebringer’s shoulder, leaving deep crescent-shaped indents that nearly draws blood. His toes curl and spasm and his thighs tremble against Flamebringer’s sides.
Flamebringer knows he’s hit the spot. He pinpoints there, thrusting his cock with a singular target in mind. He winces when Executor tightens painfully against him when he hits his prostate particularly rough. If it isn’t for the hefty lubrication he prepared, the friction would’ve badly chafed his skin. But this feels heavenly. The warmth of Executor’s insides massaging his cock, triggering every nerve ending into unimaginable pleasure that sends him closer and closer to the peak. Flamebringer has had plenty of sex, has slept with numerous men or women with varying degree of satisfaction, but this beautiful, erotic angel beneath him makes him forget everyone else he’s had on his bed.
The room is filled with sounds of squelching lube, Flamebringer’s hips slapping against Executor’s ass, and both men moaning and groaning simultaneously. Flamebringer watches Executor’s originally passive face contorts into one of pleasure. He’s blinking rapidly, with the pupils dilated until the blueness of his irises are drowned in black. His bangs are plastered to his forehead, the color turning a darker shade of blond from the sweat. His lips reflect the light of their dimmed room from the saliva he’s accumulated from licking his lips.
Flamebringer pants against the juncture between Executor’s neck and shoulder. He can’t continue looking at the angel, else he’d start waxing poetry about his beauty in his mind. He chooses to distract himself by closing his eyes and kissing Executor again.
Kissing is second nature to Flamebringer. He’s never really paid any attention to it anymore. In fact, he’s received plenty of compliments from his previous partners for how much he excels at it. Practice makes perfect, they say. He’s kissed so many people for so many times that it becomes a second thought, something that he’s relegated to the awkward fumbling of adolescence and is bored at as an adult. Well, he’s not bored now.
Executor does that again, the sweet little sound that gets caught in his throat, and it intoxicates Flamebringer. He loves the way Executor parts his lips slightly, almost shyly, giving a hasty permission for Flamebringer to ravage him inside, to steal all the oxygen in his lungs until he’s gasping for air and Flamebringer is his lifeline. Then Flamebringer would pull back, giving both of them a quick rest, just him gently pulling and sucking at Executor’s bottom lip, reveling in the shiver that runs through Executor’s body.
“Look at you,” he murmurs into Executor’s skin. “You’re beautiful.”
That draws a sharp breath from Executor. He opens his eyes, lets his lashes bat a few times, before he calls out softly, “Please, Flamebringer.”
And that... that does something funny to Flamebringer. A fluttering feeling in his gut, an arrhythmia, a heat that spreads throughout his whole body.
Flamebringer belatedly realizes that it is the first time Executor’s called his name.
“Fuck,” Flamebringer curses under his breath. “Do you realize what you’re doing to me?”
“A-ah, you—” Executor turns his head like he’s trying to burrow his face into the pillow and smother his voice. It turns an octave higher when Flamebringer picks up his pace.
It suddenly feels too stuffy and too hot. Executor listlessly squirms, hands grabbing at the sheets for purchase. It feels overwhelming in such a short time, and his mind is not given the proper time to conjure a reaction. He looks like a lost child. He feels like a lost child.
“You’re close,” Flamebringer states, like he can feel it.
“Yes,” Executor breathes out, nodding fervently, “Please.”
“Shh, I got you, darling, I got you,” Flamebringer mumbles nonsensically, kissing the edge of Executor’s eyes.
With hands steadily holding Executor’s hips, he pulls back until his cock catches at the rim. Executor makes a gibberish sound that’s conveyed by the way his hole is clamping down hard on Flamebringer’s dick.
There’s a second where Flamebringer lets Executor breathe before he slams his cock back, driving it all the way home. Executor makes a keening, “Oh!” sound that prefaces more moans. His eyelids flutter shut and his eyebrows crunch like he’s concentrating on a difficult mathematical equation instead of being nailed to next Sunday. He’s practically crushing the sheets with his grappling hands. Flamebringer slithers his hand in, and Executor mindlessly lets go of the fabric in favor of intertwining both their fingers together.
Truthfully, sexual pleasure isn’t something Executor is familiar with until recently. He’s still unused to the foreign onslaught of sensations that comes with it. He isn’t sure he’ll ever get used to the feeling. It isn’t something he can learn or study. He just needs to feel, and feeling is admittedly not his forte.
But Executor can feel it, the telltale sign. It stems from the deepest part of him, from the sensitive nerve endings in his prostate glands, traveling all the way to his spine. The pleasure gradually heightens in intensity, sending his body quivering. He feels hot all over, but especially deep in his belly, like there’s a boiling magma inside just waiting to explode. Everything feels too much and not enough at the same time. It’s driving him wild. His mind is just white noise while his body is begging for a release.
Flamebringer notices how Executor’s started grinding against him, his hips rolling up, forcing Flamebringer deeper inside. He’s clenching and unclenching on Flamebringer’s dick, sending the latter closer. Flamebringer grits his teeth, suddenly too impatient to be a caring partner.
Flamebringer pushes Executor’s legs by the back of his thighs, pressing them against the latter’s chest, essentially folding his body in two. “N-no, you—!” Executor yelps. The position must’ve strained his muscle to the limit, if the way he’s crushing Flamebringer’s metacarpals in his grip is any indication. Instead of deterring him, it only ignites the spark within Flamebringer.
The change in angle enables Flamebringer to enter a new depth inside Executor. He knows Executor is close, and so is he. Without a care, he fervently pistons his cock, rubbing against the sensitive membrane of Executor’s insides and jabbing into his deepest place. Executor’s fully erect cock smacks against his abdomen with translucent precome pooling on his skin despite being untouched from the start.
“You’re so fucking beautiful, look so good writhing and moaning under me.” Flamebringer groans hoarsely. “You love it, don’t you? Wrecked by my cock. Want me to fill you up real good, don’t you?”
A guttural sob tears itself from Executor’s throat, glassy eyes staring straight through Flamebringer, as he screams, “Yes, come inside, please!”
The words are like a switch that shuts off every part of Flamebringer’s brain that isn’t concentrating on his orgasm. As if the world ceases to exist, and it’s just the two of them, connected in the most primeval shape of intimacy and desire.
“Fuck, you fucking—” Flamebringer can feel it building in his spine, an unstoppable force threatening to break him apart. He feels like a prisoner to his own desire. He can’t still his hips, can’t stop his head from spinning, just focused on his chase, so very close to the finish line.
Executor comes with a gasp, his eyes open wide, pupils shaking nearly violently before rolling back into his head. The force of his orgasm washes over him like a flood. One second he’s pursuing and the next he’s hit with the brunt of it. His legs spasm, his whole body trembling as his cock shoots semen up his body, landing on his belly, his chest, and even some on his chin. There’s a second that feels like dissociation, like he’s looking at his orgasmic state through a third person’s eyes. He’s never felt this way; half close to death from the overwhelming pleasure.
The view of Executor so madly in the throes of his climax sends Flamebringer closer to his. He’s been reduced to just making harsh noises he can’t hold back. Executor’s tightening around him like a vice, making him feel so good to the point it borderlines pain. He increases his pace until it’s just a messy, uncoordinated thrusting.
He’s so close, he can feel it. He absentmindedly grabs Executor’s face and kisses him deeply. The latter, having been awakened from his post-orgasm trance, kisses back, his arms clinging onto Flamebringer’s neck, pushing them close until there’s no space left.
The noise Executor makes might be Flamebringer’s name, or simply a wordless groan, but it goes straight to Flamebringer’s cock, wringing the final burst of pleasure from him as he comes, forceful and hot and filthy, filling Executor until he’s stuffed full of his seeds. Some spill out; white, sticky liquid trickling down Executor’s buttocks and pooling on the sheets.
Flamebringer’s panting hard like he’s just run a marathon. As he comes down from his high, he acutely feels the rushing turbulence of his blood and every pound of his heartbeat beating against his ribcage. The feeling grounds him back to earth. Once the ecstasy wears off, he realizes how much of a mess their nightly activity has created.
Beneath him, Executor looks like he’s two seconds away from passing out. His eyelids keep fluttering shut, fighting a losing battle against exhaustion. His body has had more time than Flamebringer’s to return to equilibrium. The adrenaline seems to have all escaped his body. The aftermath is telltale in the form of his soaked, mussed hair; the rosy hue rising high on his cheeks; the faint tremble of his lips; and his hot, quick breaths.
“How lewd,” Flamebringer comments idly, though lacking lots of the usual bite in his teasing remarks. The hoarseness of his voice actually makes him sound more like he’s astounded.
The half-lidded gaze Executor gives him makes him swallow thickly. It’s illegal for a person to be this tantalizing. Any more than this and he’ll be addicted.
Flamebringer sighs and lowers his head, resting it on the crook of Executor’s neck. It’s warm and smells mildly of perfume and sweat, but he doesn’t mind. “You’re driving me crazy,” he mumbles.
Executor heaves a sigh against his ear, his breath tickling the thin skin. His hand hesitantly rubs Flamebringer’s shoulder blades. It calms him down for some reason. It certainly works better than some sedatives Flamebringer has had to take in the past.
Flamebringer hoists his upper body up lazily, wanting to kiss Executor again, when he sees a glint of something, and then—
“Did you take that knife from your clothes in the one second I wasn’t paying attention?” Flamebringer smirks.
Executor is looking down at him coldly. His legs, the very ones trembling and hooked around his back just five minutes earlier, strongly pin Flamebringer’s body down, limiting his movement. There is no trace of hesitancy in the way he’s gripping his silver knife just a fraction of an inch against Flamebringer’s neck, accurately hovering over the carotid artery.
“Impressive, angel,” Flamebringer says when Executor doesn’t reply.
Executor’s right eye twitches ever so slightly. It’s barely noticeable if Flamebringer hasn’t been observing him intently for the past hour. It pleases the Sarkaz, to know that the angel is quite bothered by his indifference. It’s a fun game they’re playing.
“But didn’t they teach you to never let your guard down until your enemy’s truly dead?”
Executor immediately changes his stance into defensive, but it’s too late. In a second, Flamebringer forces his whole strength to topple the fair Sankta off his body, reversing their position. It’s reminiscence of their position earlier, but now with more deadly weapons.
Unlike Executor, Flamebringer doesn’t have a knife or gun in hand. He was searched for weapons beforehand, and if he was discovered with one, he’d be dead meat. Besides, he’s confident in his martial ability if things were to go west.
Like now. Executor is strong and agile, but he’s no match for Flamebringer’s power. He forcefully yanks the knife from Executor’s grip and uses it to his advantage instead.
Executor is now looking up at him, eyes burning with contempt. Flamebringer loves it. Oh, he thought he’s seen Executor’s everything. How very wrong.
With the tip of the knife, he tilts Executor’s chin up, forcing him to look at him straight in the eyes. The sharp metal bites shallowly on the Sankta’s skin, drawing little beads of blood. Flamebringer smirks wider.
“So, angel. Who are you?”
        Notes:
          this is a spies and secret agent AU set in the canon universe, just without the oripathy and reunion thingy. it's loosely inspired by the ncis episode where tiva went undercover. fun fact, the title is a made-up word i made based on tangent line (which meets at exactly one point and never crosses again), which if you read the summary is how their relationship is supposed to be if the author isn't me lol.honestly i just wanted some good, thorough flamexe smut. i never expected to have a real plot lol oopsie. i tried to end the chapter with a cliffhanger, don't know how well that works out, but i promise things will become clearer in the next chapters.... well, i did say that, however my clinical rotation will resume in like, two weeks, so between that and my slow writing i highly doubt i'll be able to update periodically. pls pray i'll be able to get this done before that. anyway, thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (7)
  Comments
          KuyaReCom, SampahMasyarakat, Hinarah59, Verstappen, kurimusuki, goldennkiri, shallowwater, SavemeWww, Msiterbigeye, A_Food, velthomerr, raburabu, SekibankiRai, D8ONO, CookiesAndCyanide, awaketillsunrise, shooune, Strange_Dark, IrisWang, aoshin_akazora, narukamis, DarkOpus, the_rain_shall_fall, cup_of_comfort, kyousasaki, Airy_me, Warden_Click, Ceil_52Hz, and lius
             as well as 
          30 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
