      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "sherlock (tv)" m/m NOT "sherlock holmes/john watson"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               F/F
              Fandom:
               響け! ユーフォニアム | Hibike! Euphonium (Anime)
              Relationships:
               Kousaka Reina/Oumae KumikoNakaseko Kaori/Tanaka AsukaNakagawa Natsuki/Yoshikawa YuukoKasaki Nozomi/Yoroizuka Mizore
              Characters:
               Kousaka ReinaOumae KumikoNakaseko KaoriTanaka AsukaNakagawa NatsukiYoshikawa YuukoKasaki NozomiYoroizuka MizoreOgasawara HarukaKatou HazukiKawashima "Midori" SapphireTaki NoboruMatsumoto MichieTsukamoto ShuuichiTakigawa ChikaoOumae Mamiko
              Additional Tags:
               RomanceHigh SchoolInspired by MusicPost-SeriesCanon Compliant with the First Two SeasonsNot Canon Compliant with the Last Two Films
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Rhapsody in E series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2016-09-12Updated:2020-04-20Words:51603Chapters:23/?Comments:1025Kudos:865Bookmarks:88Hits:18685
      Rhapsody in E Major
      BleedingBlade
          Summary:
              A series of related vignettes about Kumiko's and Reina's lives in high school, focusing on their gradual progression from friendship to love.In the latest vignette, Natsuki tries her hand at being a eupho-mama (also known as the chapter where Natsuki takes on being an immovable object in the face of an unstoppable force).
      Chapter 1: Preludio
          Summary:
            In which Reina pursues the rigors of being special and Kumiko discovers the hardships entailed in keeping a promise.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    PRELUDIO
  noun  pre·lu·dio  \prāˈlüdyō\
 : a short piece of music that introduces a longer piece 
“I’m leaving for America.”Kumiko looked straight into luminous violet eyes and read determination, defiance and pride—but also apprehension, loneliness and grief.Below, the lights of Uji glittered, the merriness of their sparkle a sudden sharp contrast to the budding ache in her chest. She hadn’t expected anything in particular on this year’s Agata Festival—but she certainly hadn’t anticipated having to say goodbye either.To make matters worse, the memory of the promise she’d made Reina last year surfaced with an accusatory clarity. How on earth did you stay with someone who moved at the speed of light?“When?” was all she asked in reply. She knew with a conviction that only ever applied to her intuitions about Reina that to say anything else would simply upset the dark-haired girl’s fragile equanimity.“Next month. Interlochen’s Music Conservatory Program begins in August and I’ll need the time to get settled.”Kumiko nodded. Reina had briefly mentioned the one year immersive course for gifted musicians months ago in the context of post-graduation plans. She wasn’t at all surprised that Reina, in her second year of high school, had qualified for a program that was designed for secondary school graduates.“You’ll need to up your game then,” she spoke equitably. “It probably takes a bit more effort to be special in America.”“Mmm.” The black-haired girl nodded. After a moment’s pause, a slender finger jabbed directly at Kumiko’s heart. “You’d better not slack off either.”“You can kill me if I do,” Kumiko intoned solemnly.“I really would, you know.”“It wouldn’t be you if you didn’t.”They stared at each other and, for the second time in her short life, Kumiko understood that only death could crown the perfection of a moment that contained the proximity of Reina on a moonlit night.“Kumiko…” the sudden quaver in the normally steady voice and the tell-tale glimmer in over-bright eyes broke the spell, and with the surety of an instinct that applied to Reina and Reina alone, Kumiko gently tugged the other girl to the space next to where she sat.“Shall we start?”In answer, Reina put her trumpet to her lips and the characteristic confidence of her first few notes told Kumiko all she needed to know.We’re so much better now than last year, Kumiko thought as the sounds of their instruments blended seamlessly together. But also, she thought as the ache in her chest grew, so much more…melancholy.~~~~~Life seemed normal enough when Reina left—the usual merry-go-round of classes, rehearsals and hijinks with Midori-chan and Hazuki-chan. But the days passed with a curious and lethargic flatness and it seemed as if a gauze had descended between herself and the world.Kumiko learned quickly enough not to succumb too much to the sensations of quicksand. Everything occurred to her as a nearly unbearable bother, including Midori-chan’s and Hazuki-chan’s concern, and it was much easier to pretend that things were exactly as normal as they seemed.“Puberty,” her sister had harrumphed with a roll of her eyes when their mother had evinced her worry over Kumiko’s unusually deeper level of inattentive preoccupation.The only time she felt the gauze lifting was when she and Reina exchanged messages. By unspoken agreement, they communicated exclusively through text, preferring to avoid the agony of hearing the other’s voice or seeing the other’s face.Things would likely have gone on the same way if a chance remark by Hazuki-chan hadn’t pierced the veil:“It’s just not the same without Kousaka-san!” Hazuki-chan’s lament had been occasioned by Taki-sensei’s dismissing yet another ensemble rehearsal to have the sections practice by themselves instead.The innocuous line clarified the many weeks of numb and vapid despair and Kumiko finally realized with a sense of shocked desolation why she’d made her promise to Reina on that moonlit night so many months ago.Nothing, indeed, was the same without Kousaka-san. Not just life in the band, but life in school, life outside of school, and probably all of life itself.The magnitude of the realization was jarring, to say the least.“She’s ruined me for everything,” Kumiko wailed after a long and pregnant pause—and stopped immediately upon realizing that she’d actually said the words out loud.What had followed was a week of agonized soul-searching, during which Kumiko weighed her need to be with Reina against the demands that need would make.The various paralyzing doubts and distressing fears all boiled down to variations of the same tiresome theme: How could a painfully ordinary girl like her keep pace with a dazzlingly extraordinary girl like Reina?In the end, she turned to the one person who rivalled her in Reina’s regard.“Taki-sensei…” she ventured hesitantly at his desk one day, “do you think I could make it to a music conservatory?”He regarded her steadily, not the slightest bit perturbed by either her interruption or her inquiry.“You’ll need to work very, very hard, Oumae-san, but yes, if you start redoubling your efforts now, you could enter a good college of music after high school.”And just like that, life became simple once again. After all, getting into music school was a straightforward if difficult affair, involving only the clear-cut calculus of diligence and effort, patience and persistence.Explaining why she suddenly wanted to be a professional musician, however, was another matter altogether.“I really like the euphonium,” was all she said when pressed by the mother she’d bewildered, the sister she’d exasperated, and the friends she’d surprised by the sudden and unexpected call.Even to herself, her actions seemed impetuous and strange. She couldn’t even account for why Reina mattered all that much. Reina was special, yes, but there were lots of exceptional people around—like Asuka-senpai, for instance—but none of them moved her the way Reina did, in the way that only Reina had ever had.At any rate, Kumiko had neither the inclination nor the patience for over-analysis. She had less than a year to work her way up to a level where she could keep up with Reina in some fashion.And besides, music school was just the start. As a professional trumpet player, Reina would be pressed for choice between classical and jazz ensembles, whereas Kumiko’s vocational future would be limited to the world of band. She couldn’t afford to be near-sighted and, to use a phrase she’d heard from Asuka-senpai, “win the battle only to lose the war.”Which was why just a week after she’d spoken to Taki-sensei, she found herself in a café with her former senior.“Asuka-senpai...” she started, then paused and re-gathered her courage with a sharp intake of breath, “would you like to start a jazz ensemble with me?”Across from her, she saw her senpai’s eyebrows shoot up in a mixture of amusement and delight. The dark-haired beauty stared at her for a long and unnerving moment before giving her reply.“You really are interesting, Oumae-chan. And here I was thinking that nothing left in life could ever surprise me.”Kumiko regarded her steadily. “Will you do it?”The older woman’s lips curved in their familiar enigmatic style. “Why not? It’s not like I’m doing anything important anyway. I might as well have a bit more fun.”And just like that, Kumiko’s year was set.The only thing left to do was to actually survive it.Or, Reina really would kill her when she got back.
        Notes:
          The Interlochen Arts Academy mentioned in this chapter IS a real school and their one-year Music Conservatory Program really DOES exist. Just so you know. :-D
      Chapter 2: Intermezzo I
          Summary:
            In which Kumiko’s efforts slowly transform Asuka and Kaori loses a battle to win a war.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    INTERMEZZO I
   noun  in·ter·mez·zo  \ˌin-tər-ˈmet-(ˌ)sō, -ˈmed-(ˌ)zō\ 
   : a short part of a musical work that connects major sections of the work 
“Over here, Haruka!Haruka shaded her eyes and scanned the hillside briefly before finally spotting the waving figure.“I didn’t recognize you,” she said by way of explanation when she drew up close to Kaori. “You look so different without your bangs. And your hair’s grown so long too.”“Has it been that long?” Kaori laughed.“Well, it’s fall now, so it’s been five months, I guess,” Haruka replied as she settled on the grass next to Kaori. “This look suits you though. It makes you even prettier.”“I don’t know about prettier—I was just aiming for older.”Haruka sighed. “I know what you mean. People still confuse me for a high schooler. I bet Asuka doesn’t have that problem though.”As if saying her name were enough to conjure the devil herself, a familiar exhortatory voice rang through the trees from the park’s lower slopes:“Run, young Padawan, run! Remember: ‘Do or do not, there is no try!’”“Roleplaying the mentor at full tilt, I see,” Haruka commented mildly.Kaori sighed. “At least I managed to stop her from making Oumae-san carry her on her back after the second round.”Haruka glanced at Kaori with one eyebrow raised. “They do this every weekend?”“Erm, not exactly. Last week she was Mr. Miyagi. The week before that, Gandalf. And the week before that Haymitch Abernathy—““I meant the training, not the roleplaying.”“Oh. Well, yes. Its circuit training before breakfast. Then lectures on music history, music theory and music analysis before lunch. Then rehearsals and practice with the band before dinner. Then if Oumae-san’s still conscious, academics at the end.”“She tutors Oumae-san too???”“Asuka got annoyed when Oumae-san said she couldn’t rehearse because she wasn’t doing too well in school.”“Oh,” Haruka paused. “I almost feel sorry for Oumae-san.”“You should feel sorry for Oumae-san.”“You watch them every weekend?”“Oumae-san would be dead by now if I didn’t. Things got really hairy during the Hunger Games episode.”“How did it even come to this? I thought Oumae-san just wanted Asuka to start a band with her.”“Well, I think it started when Asuka began one of her monologues about the euphonium and Oumae-san started taking notes...”“She took notes?”“Yes.”“She took notes???”“Yes.”“Oh dear. That was certainly fuel to an already blazing fire.”“More like lightning to an already monstrous Frankenstein.”They both paused as a dishevelled shape ambled up the slope with a bespectacled figure following closely behind on a bicycle. The rider’s shouts carried up the hill:“How do you expect to channel the Force through our divine instrument with such weak lungs??? Faster, my young Hornblower, faster!”Haruka shook her head with a smile. “Our Yoda’s eccentricities aside, I have to say that I envy Oumae-san. I don’t think Asuka’s ever put as much time and effort into anything else besides her euphonium. Makes me wonder how Oumae-san put her up to it.”Kaori tilted her head to one side. After a long moment, she ventured a halting reply: “I’ve thought about it for a while. I think it has something to do with how Oumae-san is.”“Which is…?”Kaori paused. “She let’s Asuka be herself, without asking for her acceptance or begging for her approval. For Asuka, I can imagine that it must feel…liberating.”Haruka looked closely at her best friend. The delicate lines of Kaori’s face remained surprisingly serene. Haruka chuckled. “You’ve changed, Kaori.”“Really? In what way?”“You don’t seem to want Asuka’s acceptance or approval either. At least not anymore.”Kaori paused. “I still love her. I’ve just stopped…adoring her. There’s a difference.”Haruka sighed. “Not a big enough difference for me. You’re beautiful, you’re intelligent and you’re kind. Why wait for Asuka?”Kaori smiled. “I asked Oumae-san once if she wasn’t afraid of failing in her music college applications after making all this effort. She just told me, ‘Of course I’m afraid, Kaori-senpai. But I think it’s easier to live with failure than it is to live with regret.’”Haruka shook her head. “I kind of get it—and I kind of don’t. At the very least, please tell me you’re helping out with this band for reasons other than Asuka.”Kaori laughed. “I’m doing it for the music too, you know. Which I’m sure you can understand. Will you really not join us?”Haruka grinned. “Well, I’m here now aren’t I?”The smile on Kaori’s face was as dazzling as the autumn foliage. “At any rate,” Haruka went on before standing up and brushing the seat of her pants, “I came by just to tell you that. I’m a bit more used to university now, so I think I can actually squeeze in a hobby or two. I’ll see you later at rehearsals then.”With a final wave, Haruka trudged down the hill. Behind her, a voice floated down the slope:“Focus, Padawan, focus! ‘A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind.’ At this rate, the only thing you’ll be fit to blow is a whistle—and a tiny whistle at that!”“Oh dear God,” Haruka muttered, “does she really have to put it like that?”As if in response, an autumn breeze began to blow.~~~~~Back on the hill, Kaori lay down on the grass, her head pillowed on the crook of an elbow.She supposed that she had changed, as Haruka had said.But then, so had Asuka.In her own awkward and inadvertent way, Oumae-san had marked them both. Kaori knew that if Oumae-san hadn’t proposed creating the band, Asuka may well have said goodbye to music forever—yet another ending engendered by the bitter promise she’d made her mother.Kaori had had an intimation of that farewell when she’d seen Asuka’s book of euphonium pieces in Oumae-san’s hands the day they’d graduated from Kitauji High School.She’d felt a pang of envy then, and felt the pang several more times in the weeks that followed, until she realized that it was Oumae-san’s single-minded determination that commanded Asuka’s respect.For the fact of the matter was: Oumae-san wasn’t even trying to prove anything to Asuka. She was, in her own words, “simply doing what needs to be done,” so she could get to where she wanted to go.It was a jarring contrast to the efforts Kaori had made over the years to be special in Asuka’s eyes—efforts that she now realized had been counterproductive and misplaced.And now, with this band, she’d been given a second chance to create and enjoy music for its own sake, and inspired by Oumae-san’s own aspirations, she’d begun to wonder if it was perhaps possible for her to pursue music professionally after all—“’She was gentle and sedate as usual, but evidently absent and preoccupied. Her eyes rested on the dew lying on the grass in the garden, and her ears were intent upon the melancholy singing of the autumn insects…’”Kaori chuckled at the sonorous delivery before lifting herself on her elbows. “We’ve moved from Star Wars to the Tale of Genji, I see. What’s happened to your apprentice?”Asuka sighed dramatically before flinging herself onto the grass next to Kaori. “Possibly dead. Somewhere near the top of Mt. Daikichi. She was muttering something about a spot where she felt it would be appropriate to die.”“You could back off a little bit,” Kaori replied mildly. “She’s applying for a music college—not qualifying for the Olympics.”Asuka adopted an aggrieved look. “Are you questioning my pedagogical methods? Or,” she glanced slyly at Kaori, “are you jealous of Oumae-chan?”Kaori paused. It was so like Asuka to combine curiosity and cruelty in a single line.“No,” she responded evenly. “I’m grateful to Oumae-san, actually. She’s the only one who’s ever managed to get under your skin. In a sense, she’s made a way for the rest of us.”“And besides,” she added, with a faint smile on her lips, “I don’t think I’ve ever seen you have this much fun.”Asuka lay down on the grass and shook her head. “You’re too nice for your own good, Kaori.”“And you believe in my niceness too much for yours.”Asuka laughed. “What does that even mean?”“It means,” Kaori replied neutrally, "that you might actually provoke me into doing things I would never normally do.”“Oh?” Asuka arched an eyebrow in challenge. “Things like wha—“Kaori silenced her by covering Asuka’s lips with her own.A long moment passed during which time all that could be heard was the autumn breeze blowing through flame-red trees.When Kaori finally drew back, she sighed. “I warned you about provoking me. So I’m not going to apologize for doing that.”“Why on earth would you apologize?” Asuka murmured. “I’m not all that sorry either.”The implications of the statement made Kaori blush. “You gain the upper hand far too quickly,” she muttered. “That used to infuriate me about you.”“And now it doesn’t?” The sudden inscrutability in Asuka’s eyes warned Kaori that the question was far more significant than it seemed.She shook her head, the overwhelming affection she felt for the complex, enigmatic and wounded woman underneath her coming to the fore. “It’s part of who you are. How can I claim to love you if I just pick the bits I like?”“Do you love me then?” Again, there was that same hooded look in the light blue eyes.Kaori lifted herself up and resumed her seat on the grass. “I think the real question is: Do you love yourself?”There was another long moment of profound silence…before both girls burst out laughing.“Oh, Kaori,” Asuka gasped between peals of laughter. “You were doing so well too before you went all Oprah on me.”“I couldn’t help it!” Kaori protested between giggles. “It was waiting to be said!”They lay on the grass in companionable silence after the laughing fit had passed.“You’ve changed, Kaori.”Kaori chuckled. “It’s strange how people keep telling me that.”In the distance, they could hear faint shouts through the trees:“Asuka-senpai! What do I do now? Where are you, Asuka-senpai?...”“It seems your dead disciple has returned to life.”“And is in need of further instruction, apparently,” Asuka added with amusement. She picked herself up and dusted the seat of her pants. After a few steps, she paused, and without looking back, asked:“Kaori, will you go to music college with me?”Kaori stared at the slender and familiar back, and for the first time in her short life, understood that only death could crown the perfection of a moment that contained the proximity of Asuka on an autumn day.She smiled. “I thought you’d never ask.”
        Notes:
          Although this story is based strictly on the events of the anime series, I've borrowed bits of the characters' backstories from the manga (which I haven't read, so I've relied on secondhand sources of information). For instance, the parts about Asuka's mother forbidding her from pursuing music after graduation and Asuka giving Kumiko her father's book of euphonium pieces are all derived from the manga.And just in case you didn't catch it, that spot on Mt. Daikichi that Kumiko refers to is the spot where she and Reina had their date in Season 1, Episode 8. :-)
      Chapter 3: Codetta
          Summary:
            In which Reina returns home and discovers that home is where Kumiko is.
    Chapter Text
    CODETTA
    noun  co·det·ta  \kōˈdetə, -etə\
 : a passage that brings a section of a musical work to an end 
  “Ladies and gentlemen, we have started our descent. In preparation for landing, please make sure your seat backs and tray tables are in their full upright position. Make sure your seat belt is securely fastened and all carry-on luggage is stowed underneath the seat in front of you or in the overhead bins…”
  Reina only dimly heard the practiced lilt of the flight attendant. She’d been preoccupied throughout much of the flight, her eyes glancing restlessly at her watch in a relentless cataloguing of the interminable hours and intolerable minutes. Just so many minutes left until…until…until…
  Stupid really, she sighed to herself in derision. To have endured the separation so patiently for nearly a year only to find its final stages insufferable.
  She glanced at the euphonium plushie that had accompanied her as constantly as her trumpet over the last several months.
  Am I being silly? she asked it silently in her head.
  The plushie looked at her reassuringly. If you’re being silly, then I’m being silly too. 
  Of course, Reina thought back with a note of apology, you probably miss her more than I do. She’s your mommy after all.
  The plushie gazed at her with a slightly hurt expression. You’re my mommy too. She said so herself.
  I didn’t mean it that way, Reina responded placatingly, then stroked the plushie with a thumb for added measure.
  Her mind drifted to the memory of the day she’d left Japan. After her parents had dropped her off at the airport, Kumiko had obtained a gate pass and stayed with her while she’d waited for her flight.
  The final boarding announcement had cut like a knife through the thickness that had lain between them both.
  “Wait!” Kumiko had cried out suddenly after Reina had stood up to join the queue. “You have to take him with you!”
  Reina had felt strong, insistent fingers prying her hand open and upon gazing down at her palm, had found Kumiko’s prized euphonium plushie—the one she took with her everywhere she went. Her eyes had widened.
  “Kumiko, I can’t—“
  Kumiko wouldn’t look at her. “I found him when I was with you. So you’re his mom too, in a way. Besides, if you have him, then you’ll have to come back.”
  After a long, nearly unbearable moment, Reina had nodded. “You’re a terrible mother,” she’d replied, her voice shaky even to her ears. “To use the child to guarantee the other parent’s return—“
  The fierceness of Kumiko’s sudden embrace had cut her off. “You can’t hold it against me. I made a promise to you after all.”
  Then Kumiko had pushed her away and turned on her heel. “Now, go be special in America. I’ll be waiting when you’re done.”
  That pledge had become her lifeline in the many months that had followed. In so many ways, studying music in America was exactly what she’d expected: challenging, demanding, exacting and exhilarating. To be subjected to the highest standards, exposed to the newest techniques, and surrounded by precocious geniuses impelled by the same intense and extraordinary desire—
  She hadn’t thought much about it beforehand, but she’d always supposed she’d find home in the company of such like-minded souls.
  That, unfortunately, hadn’t turned out to be the case. If anything, Reina had found herself oddly repelled by the many offers of friendship—and the various confessions of love—that she’d somehow assumed would be welcome after a lifetime of being misunderstood.
  Am I being strange? she’d stared at Eupho-kun one day in solemn bewilderment. They’re all really nice people, but I can’t seem to like any of them.
  Of course not, the plushie had placidly replied, they’re not my mommy, after all.
  The straightforward assertion had clarified the many weeks of acute and agonizing isolation and Reina had finally understood with a sense of numbed desolation why she’d extracted that promise from Kumiko on that moonlit night so many months ago.
  Before Kumiko, the distance she’d felt between herself and the world had been natural, comfortable and even desired—a welcome and necessary safeguard against the madding and mediocre crowd.
  After Kumiko and away from Kumiko, the sense of separation throbbed with a strange and unfamiliar ache.
  For the first time in her life, Reina had understood what loneliness meant, and the shock of the sensation was jarring, to say the least.
  The only times she’d ever felt the pang recede were when she heard from Kumiko—and when she spoke to the plushie.
  I’m getting odder than usual if I’m actually talking to you, she’d said to it once while lying in bed.
  It had cheerfully replied: Not as strange as you’d be if you actually heard me talking back.
  She’d frowned at it. You just talked back.
  It had shrugged. Just in your head though. If you hear me out loud, then you’ve got worse problems than being odd.
  It was during one of the same conversations with the plushie that she’d decided to return to Japan in late May instead of June.
  I could fly home next week already, she’d sighed. Except my parents still aren’t back from their trip abroad. 
  Just stay with Mommy until your parents get back then, the plushie had replied.
  For some reason, the idea had made Reina blush.
    I couldn’t…I couldn’t…I couldn’t possibly impose on Kumiko like that. 
    Of course you can. Weren’t you always dragging her up and around Mt. Daikichi and stuff?
  You’ve got about as much tact as your mother, she’d wryly replied.
  But that’s exactly what you like about me, had been the plushie’s matter-of-fact response.
  And just like that, she’d booked herself a flight to Kansai—and found herself uncharacteristically restless as her flight drew nearer to home.
  She barely noticed when the plane landed and went through immigration, baggage claim and customs in a state of high-functioning distraction.
  The only time the gauze lifted was when she finally found herself in the arrivals lobby, and after a few minutes of intense scrutinizing, spotted a familiar figure through a gap in the crowd.
  She was wearing loose cargo pants held up by a pair of suspenders and a tank top that silhouetted a slender physique.
  She looked casual.
  Grown-up.
    Gorgeous. 
  And just like that Reina’s heart skipped a beat.
  She’d imagined her homecoming countless times: each iteration a variation on a theme of composure, dignity and restraint.
  But when Kumiko finally spotted her, and flashed her a smile as dazzling as the summer sun, Reina found herself abandoning composure, abandoning dignity and abandoning restraint—and rushing headlong into welcoming arms.
  The chaos and complexity of nearly a year’s worth of suppressed emotion crystallized themselves as one choked and inarticulate sob.
  “Okaeri, Reina…” She felt rather than heard the words in the fierceness of Kumiko’s embrace.
  After a long moment that felt much too short, she leaned back and looked at the other girl.
  She’d grown taller. And leaner. And possessed a confidence that Reina didn’t recognize and couldn’t name.
  “You’ve grown more beautiful,” Kumiko said simply, gazing at her with a wondering smile.
  “And you’ve…grown,” she replied helplessly and distractedly, because she couldn’t account for the beautiful stranger in front of her: familiar and comfortable in the ways that mattered, but also mysterious and disconcerting in ways she hadn’t realized mattered.
  Kumiko gently withdrew her arms and nodded towards Reina’s abandoned luggage. “Let me help you with your bags.”
  They walked in silence for a while, Kumiko leading the way towards the Kansai Airport Station. Reina stared at her friend’s back, and in the disoriented haze characteristic of the newly arrived, found herself regretting the sudden loss of Kumiko’s touch.
  As if the taller girl had read her mind, Kumiko turned around, and with a heart-stopping smile, reached out and took Reina’s hand with their fingers entwined.
  The gesture nearly made Reina cry.
  It was only when they were seated in the train that Reina finally felt the full weight of her fatigue. Despite her best efforts to stay awake, she found herself leaning against Kumiko’s bare shoulder.
  The skin felt bewitchingly soft underneath her cheek.
  She barely suppressed the urge to press her lips against that skin and settled for burying her nose in it instead.
  She felt Kumiko shift subtly in her seat and recognized the movement as an attempt to make her rest more comfortable. Reina smiled. She’d often done the same on the many mornings when Kumiko had slept against her side.
  She’d missed those mornings with a desperation she’d never felt before in her life, and the memory of that desperation made her squeeze Kumiko’s hand all the more.
  She wasn’t sure how long she’d been dozing when she felt Kumiko gently nudging her awake. The rest of the trip to Kumiko’s house went by in a soporific blur.
  The only time she fully regained consciousness was when she felt Kumiko’s presence recede from the bed into which she’d been tucked.
  With a deftness that surprised even herself, she caught Kumiko’s arm. Kumiko took one look at her face, smiled, and slipped back into the bed.
  It was only when she felt herself enfolded into Kumiko’s arms that Reina finally gave herself permission to sleep.
  At long last—at long, long, last—she was home.
      Chapter 4: Cadenza
          Summary:
            In which Shuuichi makes a move, Reina makes a counter and Kumiko remains oblivious.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CADENZA
    noun  ca·den·za  \kə-ˈden-zə\
   : a solo section, usually in a concerto or similar work, that is used to display the performer's technique, sometimes at considerable length 
“Oi, Tsukamoto, you’re good friends with Oumae-san, right?”Shuuichi looked at Takigawa with a hint of suspicion. The saxophonist looked slightly embarrassed.“Why’d you ask?”“Well…um…I was thinking of asking her to go with me to the Agata Festival this year.”For a moment, Shuuichi thought: Join the line, buddy.Out loud, all he said was: “I don’t know, Takigawa. I think she usually goes with Kousaka-san.”Contrary to what he’d expected, the black-haired boy didn’t look the slightest bit discouraged. “That just means no one’s asked her out, right?” He grinned at Shuuichi. “Thanks, Tsukamoto!”Shuuichi felt like kicking himself in the shins. It served him right for not telling his own friend that he liked Kumiko.And that he’d liked her for a very long time.He’d tried telling her of course. But Kumiko never seemed to get it—and he’d never found the courage to say it in a way that would make her get it.He also knew why he’d dithered all this time.It was to spare himself the very real possibility of an outright rejection.Especially since in the last two years, Kumiko had become unexpectedly popular.He’d always known her to be preoccupied and distant—and he’d liked her well enough in spite of those traits—but at some point in their first year in high school, she’d begun to change.And the difference had become even more marked in their second year. Her playing had improved tremendously. Her grades had begun to shoot up. Then she’d started a band with Tanaka-senpai (who’d asked him shortly thereafter to join them as their trombonist) and then people had really begun noticing who Kumiko was.He also remembered the surprise he’d felt when he’d heard that she’d decided to train professionally after high school.“I didn’t think you’d take the euphonium that seriously,” he’d remarked casually on one of the rare afternoons when their paths home intersected.“I didn’t use to take a lot of things seriously,” she’d replied with a nonchalant shrug and Shuuichi had had to conceal a smile. That part of her, at least, hadn’t changed at all.And now, even Takigawa wanted to ask her out. And this year’s Agata Festival was Shuuichi’s only remaining chance.He wrestled briefly with his conscience—and decided that he would only ask Kumiko out if Takigawa had at least made his attempt and failed.But before that, he needed a strategy of sorts.Otherwise, he’d end up joining the short but steadily growing list of boys whom Kumiko had somehow refused.Which was how he ended up talking to Kousaka-san: Kousaka-san, who discomfited him in the same way Tanaka-senpai did. (What was it about Kumiko that attracted these aloof or eccentric musical geniuses anyway??)His discomfort notwithstanding, he didn’t actually have a choice. Talking to Katou-san was out of the question (the memory of her confession still stung him with shame) and so was Kawashima-san by extension.At least Kousaka-san wasn’t entirely opposed to him. She did invite him and Takigawa to join her and Kumiko at the Uji River Fireworks Festival two years back. (If only he’d said yes then.)“So, um, Kousaka-san, would you know if Kumiko has, erm, any plans for this year’s Agata Festival?”The black-haired beauty looked up from the score she’d been studying and regarded him steadily. Shuuichi wasn’t entirely sure but there seemed to be the slightest hint of amusement on the trumpet player’s lips.“Kumiko and I haven’t discussed it yet. Why?”“Well, uh, I was thinking of asking her out…”“You should just go and ask her then.” The matter-of-fact dismissal flustered Shuuichi.But the fact was that Kousaka-san was right.He should have just gone and asked Kumiko.And that was how he found himself cornering Kumiko by a water fountain the following day.“So…” he asked as casually as he could, “are you going to the Agata Festival this year?”Kumiko frowned. “Why is everyone asking me that lately? Even Takigawa-san asked.”After all this time, she still doesn’t get it, Shuuichi thought dumbfounded. But then again, that’s so like her.
  And it’s one of things I really, really like about her.
“So…” he pressed, “are you??”Kumiko tilted her head to one side. “Reina and I haven’t talked about it yet. Why?”The fact that she and Kousaka-san had given him identical responses made the outcome of this particular conversation crystal clear.But he’d had enough of dithering. It was his last chance after all.And if there was one thing he’d learned from being in a jazz band, it was to improvise spectacularly.“Well, I, um, wanted to give my mom, uh, a new yukata that she could wear to the festival. And since you’ve, uh, gone the last few years, you’d probably know what’s fashionable for festivals and stuff. So would you, um, help me look for one this Saturday?”Shuuichi mentally kicked himself in the shins. At the very least, the fact that he wanted to give his mom something should have earned him some brownie points.Kumiko frowned. “I don’t really have an eye for that sort of thing…”“You’re the only girl I can ask!” Shuuichi blurted out. In his head, his abused shins began to bleed.Kumiko sighed and then reluctantly nodded. “Just don’t blame me if your mom hates it.” Then as she walked away, she called back: “I’ll meet you at the station at 9:30 am.”Shuuichi stood with his jaw slack. He couldn’t believe it.Kumiko had actually said yes.He’d actually nailed a date—of sorts—with Kumiko.In his jubilation, he nearly mowed Kousaka-san down as he turned the corner of the hallway next to the fountain.Contrary to what he expected, she seemed more amused than offended by the near-accident.“It wasn’t entirely your fault,” was all she said in response to his apology.“That Kousaka-san’s not so bad, after all,” Shuuichi mused as he walked away.He suddenly couldn’t wait for Saturday.~~~~~“What?”Shuuichi stared speechless. Kumiko was dressed casually enough in a red plaid shirt, blue denim cut-offs and tan mid-calf boots, but as far as he was concerned, she might as well have been a Victoria’s Secret Angel.“Um, nothing!” he stammered before quickly averting his eyes.“We should get going before the weekend crowds hit,” Kumiko stated matter-of-factly and began to walk. “From what my mom told me, Mimuro’s just five minutes away from Shijo Station.”“Right,” Shuuichi nodded and decided to walk slightly behind Kumiko. He couldn’t trust himself to engage in intelligent conversation at the moment—not with Kumiko looking the way she did—and at any rate, walking behind her made for a decidedly exceptional view.His preoccupation nearly made him run into Kumiko, who’d stopped abruptly for reasons he had yet to fathom.“Is that…Reina?” Kumiko squinted.How she could identify anyone in the mob right ahead—especially a small girl like Kousaka-san—was entirely beyond Shuuichi.“It is Reina!” Kumiko exclaimed with glee. Then before he could say anything, she’d run off into the crowd.She was waiting for him with Kousaka-san when he finally caught up with her.“I can’t believe our luck!” she beamed at him. “Reina has the best taste in yukatas and it turns out she’s shopping for one too!”Shuuichi felt his heart sink. But in all the years he’d known Kumiko, he’d never seen her look as unabashedly happy as she did at that moment.He decided that having a third wheel was worth it if it meant getting to see that look on Kumiko’s face.It didn’t take very long for him to realize, however, that he didn’t have a third wheel as much as he’d become one.It wasn’t even that Kumiko or Kousaka-san were ignoring him deliberately. It was just that…they seemed to inhabit a universe of their own.Even the people immediately around them seemed to belong to a different dimension altogether.As soon as they sat down on the train, he watched as Kousaka-san reached up and started smoothing the hair on Kumiko’s head.“This bedhead of yours is hopeless,” he heard her murmur.“I’m sorry,” was Kumiko’s muffled reply. “I really try, you know. But it seems you’re the only one my hair obeys.”The smaller girl chuckled. “I wonder why.”“It’s probably fear,” Kumiko deadpanned, then laughed when Kousaka-san swatted her lightly on the shoulder.“Behave,” the trumpet player admonished, “or that’s the last time I’m terrorizing your hair into submission.”The taller girl smiled in satisfaction. “See? That’s exactly what I mean.” She got another swat in response.Something about the two girls’ interaction gave Shuuichi an odd sense of déjà vu—as if he were seeing something that he saw in some fashion every day.He felt it again an hour later when Kousaka-san used her thumb to rub off a smear of ice cream from the corner of Kumiko’s mouth.And later again when Kumiko used her taller frame to shield Kousaka-san from the press of the crowd in the elevator.And again whenever Kousaka-san clung to Kumiko’s arm (which was a lot of the time) and whenever Kumiko reached for Kousaka-san’s hand (which was the rest of the time).They weren’t exactly like the other girls who hung out together in the band.They didn’t share the rambunctious conviviality of Katou-san and Kawashima-san.Or the cantankerous solidarity of Nakagawa-senpai and Yoshikawa-senpai.Or the well-worn camaraderie of Ogasawara-senpai and Tanaka-senpai.He was finally jolted out of his reveries when Kumiko stepped out of one of the store’s fitting rooms hours later clad in a yukata that Kousaka-san had insisted that she try.Shuuichi stared slack-jawed.He had to admit: Kumiko was right. Kousaka-san did have stunning taste in yukatas. The amber yellow one Kumiko wore was delicately patterned with autumn leaves and the fiery oranges, russets and reds brought out the highlights of her hair and eyes. For the first time since he’d known her, Shuuichi realized that Kumiko wasn’t just cute.She was actually beautiful.Embarrassed by his staring, he looked away and ended up glancing at Kousaka. The look on her face as she stared at Kumiko reminded him of the expression on his fellow band members’ faces when they looked at pictures of an instrument they particularly wanted to acquire:It was a look that combined rapture, reverence and…quite possibly desire.But it was only when Kousaka-san stepped forward and began adjusting the hem of Kumiko’s robe that Shuuichi finally realized the cause of the persistent sense of déjà vu. It hit him when he saw the look of exasperated affection on Kousaka-san’s face and the expression of sheepish docility on Kumiko’s.They actually, strangely, reminded him of his parents.They had that same deep and wordless connection—that nearly telepathic link embodied time and again in the smallest gesture, the slightest glance and the subtlest touch.He suddenly wondered why he’d never noticed it before, given how much he generally noticed Kumiko.“Well, that turned out to be a spectacular success,” Kousaka-san remarked as they left the store much later with shopping bags in hand.Kumiko sighed. “My mother’s sooo going to kill me for buying this.” Then looking at Kousaka-san, she added with a grin: “But at least I’ll kind of get to match you at the fireworks festival this year.”The black-haired girl smiled and then reached for Kumiko’s arm. “I’m looking forward to it already.”And just like that, the one and only “date” Shuuichi had ever managed to arrange with Kumiko ended—and it felt nowhere like a spectacular success.On the way home, he sighed.Maybe Kumiko just wasn’t into relationships yet.Maybe she’d start thinking about it when they got into college.Maybe, just maybe, he ought to try applying for music college too.The thought cheered him up immensely.He decided to practice as soon as he got home.After he’d given his mom her new yukata.The thought cheered him up immensely.He decided to practice as soon as he got home.After he’d given his mom her new yukata.
        Notes:
          Because I started writing this series before Season 2 began airing, my original intention was to simply base it on the events of Season 1. However, given how Season 2's story line so far hasn't diverged significantly from what Season 1 established—at least in terms of the yuri subtext—I've begun incorporating Season 2 details as well. Here's hoping that they don't sink the KumiRei ship at the season's conclusion! %-/
      Chapter 5: Da Capo
          Summary:
            In which Reina proposes a trade and Kumiko makes a bargain.
    Chapter Text
    DA CAPO
    adverb or adjective  da ca·po  \dä-ˈkä-(ˌ)pō, də-\
 : from the beginning—used as a direction in music to repeat 
“Is it just me or are your heels getting higher every year?”Reina stuck a tongue out. “It’s not my fault I’m not growing as fast as you.”Kumiko chuckled. “It’s not a contest, you know.”“Maybe not. But I need the height if I’m to reach your head.”Kumiko winced and smoothed her hair self-consciously. “It’s not that bad today,” she muttered.Reina smiled at her affectionately and began trudging up the hill. “No, it’s not. That side pony tail suits you, actually.”“Hang on,” Kumiko called out and started rummaging in her pocket as Reina halted midstride. “I finally came prepared this year.”She knelt in front of the smaller girl, paused for a moment, then said: “Hold on to my shoulders, will you?”“What on earth are you up to?”She ignored Reina’s question momentarily as she focused on placing one delicate foot on top of her knee and gently slipping the sandal off.Such a beautiful foot, she mused—and felt the strangest urge to press her lips against the exquisitely shaped arch.“Band-Aid,” she said by way of explanation as she carefully smoothed the adhesive behind the ankle on the spot where the strap was likeliest to chafe.“It’s transparent,” she added by way of assurance. “So it’s not going to ruin your look.”“You didn’t have to…” Kumiko looked up and caught the flush on Reina’s cheeks. “You know I don’t really mind the pain.”“But I do,” Kumiko replied affably as she began ministering to the other foot. “I’d rather not see you hurt.” She felt the hands clutching her shoulders tremble when her fingers ghosted over the sensitive skin just below Reina’s calf.“But I thought you said that pain was…hot.” Kumiko heard the slightest hitch in her best friend’s voice.“There’s plenty enough about you that’s hot without you having to add a bit of torture to the mix.” She slipped the sandal back onto Reina’s foot—and shivered at the thought of Reina with a whip.“Kumiko…?”The uncertainty in Reina’s voice startled Kumiko out of her reverie.“Sorry,” she smiled, as she rose and dusted her knees. “I was thinking that it suited you—having someone kneel at your feet like that.”A smile played on Reina’s lips. “I wouldn’t mind having you kneel at my feet like that…” she murmured as she reached up and caressed Kumiko’s cheek—before adding with a wicked grin: “It’d make it that much easier to fix your hair.”Kumiko rolled her eyes as they started walking up the path. “You and your fetish for my hair.”Reina arched an eyebrow. “Beats you and your sudden fetish for my feet.”Kumiko shrugged. “It was a choice between the Band-Aids or carrying you up the hill.”“I’m hurt that you didn’t choose to carry me to the top.”“I thought I’d save the air for our performance at the peak. It was hard enough keeping pace with you before you left Japan.”“Oh?” Reina replied casually. “From what I’ve heard, you’ve been hard at work yourself.”Kumiko shot her a curious look. It wasn’t like Reina to indulge in classroom gossip.Reina caught her questioning glance and smiled. “Matsumoto-senpai told me you’ve been busy this last year.”“How did I manage to come up in a conversation you had with Matsumoto-senpai??”“She’s supervising my makeup classes remember? She was surprised to find that I’d managed to keep up. I told her it was because of all the notes you sent.”“You had time to read my notes??? How’d you manage to squeeze that in?”“I…didn’t do all that much between rehearsals, so I had a bit of time to kill…”Kumiko raised an eyebrow at the smaller girl’s evasiveness. “Don’t tell me you didn’t hang out with all the other geniuses. That was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity right there.”“You know I don’t go out of my way to spend time with people I don’t like.”“Strange. I always thought they’d be your tribe.”“Being special means you don’t have a tribe.”“It’s a lonely business, then,” Kumiko concluded, “this whole thing about being special.”“It is,” Reina replied matter-of-factly. Then she looked at Kumiko and smiled. “Or at least it was for me.”They crested the hill at that moment—and fell silent at the view.Even after all this time, the sight of Uji’s glittering lights never managed to grow old.  Kumiko left her euphonium case on the wooden platform and rested her elbows on the railing.It was hard to believe that two years had passed since the first time she’d seen this particular view.She started when she felt two slender arms encircle her waist.“Reina…?”She felt rather than heard the muffled words against her back.“Can we stay like this for just a few minutes?”She paused, then replied by drawing Reina’s arms tighter around her waist.Several long moments passed before the smaller girl spoke again.“It’s been days since I got back, but I still miss you, you know?”Kumiko smiled and leaned lightly against Reina’s embrace. “I’m just here,” she answered placidly. “I’ve always been here and I’ll always be here.”This time, she heard Reina’s sigh. “That sometimes makes it worse.”Kumiko chuckled and turned around to wrap her arms around Reina’s waist. In response, Reina settled her hands around the back of Kumiko’s neck. “I kinda get what you mean.”“I know,” Reina murmured, and rested her cheek against Kumiko’s chest. “You always get what I mean. It’s part of what makes it worse.” Reina lifted her head and looked Kumiko somberly in the eye. “It can get addictive, you know…being so effortlessly understood.”Kumiko gazed back, entranced by hypnotic violet eyes. “Yeah, I get totally addicted too…”She didn’t know how long they stood there in each other’s arms—only that it felt much too short.At some point, Reina smiled and gently pushed her back.“Before I forget, I should give you this.”Kumiko blinked. On the palm of Reina’s hand was the most adorable trumpet plushie Kumiko had ever seen.“A gift,” Reina stated rather obviously, “from when I was in America.”Kumiko took the plushie and felt the spread of a ridiculously warm glow.For all the time the two of them spent together, it was rare to receive presents from Reina.“Thank you,” she said, as the glow intensified into an incandescence in her chest, then looked up when the black-haired girl didn’t reply.“About Eupho-kun…” Reina blushed and turned away.Kumiko frowned in puzzlement—then smiled wickedly when she divined the reason behind Reina’s embarrassment.“Don’t tell me,” she teased as she drew her face close to Reina’s, “that you don’t want to give Eupho-kun back…”Reina’s silence made her laugh. “You’re a terrible mother! To give one parent a child in return for another—““You can’t hold it against me!” Reina replied with heat. “He was there with me when you weren’t—”Something about the look on her face made Reina stop midsentence.“Kumiko,” Reina started, “I didn’t mean it that way—“Kumiko turned away abruptly and rested her arms on the railing.Overhead, the stars above Uji glittered, the merriness of their twinkle a sudden sharp contrast to the memory of the ache she’d borne in her chest for nearly a year.Two years ago she’d made a promise.A year later she’d broken it.And she’d done nothing in the time since then but try to keep up with someone who was the starlight herself.“Kumiko…” Reina started again, the slightest hint of worry in her voice. “I’m sorry...I really didn’t mean it that way—“Kumiko cut her off. “I know you didn’t, but it’s true all the same.” She turned around to look at Reina. “I wasn’t there by your side even when I’d promised.”“Kumiko…“ Reina stared at her uncertainly, probably unsure of where she was heading with this particular train of thought.Kumiko stepped forward and took Reina’s hand. In a soft voice, she asked the smaller girl: “Do you still want me by your side?”Reina took her proferred hand and pressed it against her cheek. “I want you,” she replied simply, then colored and hastily added, “by my side, of course…”Kumiko nodded somberly. “Good.” Then raising her other hand to caress Reina’s other cheek, she added:“Because that’s the last time you’re ever leaving me.”“Kumiko…” The sudden quaver in the normally steady voice and the tell-tale glimmer in over-bright eyes warned Kumiko that it was time to break the spell.“Come on,” she smiled and gently tugged Reina towards their usual seats. “I want to hear how we’ll sound together this year.”Reina smiled back and took her trumpet out of its case.“Shouldn’t that be obvious?” she replied as Kumiko put her euphonium to her lips.“We’ll sound marvellous, of course. The way we always do.”
      Chapter 6: Contrappunto
          Summary:
            In which Asuka makes a move, Kumiko remains oblivious and Kaori takes a stand.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CONTRAPPUNTO
    noun  con·tra·pun·to  \ˌkän‧trəˈpən(ˌ)tō\
 :  the combination of two or more independent melodies into a single harmonic texture in which each retains its linear character 
  “Reina! Over here!”
  Asuka watched as a slender figure made its way up the embankment to join a figure crowned with a mop of familiar wavy hair. From her vantage point on the bridge, she could dimly make out the snow cones in the smaller figure’s hands.
  She continued to watch as the smaller figure arranged itself daintily on the grass before pressing against the larger figure’s side with practiced ease. Every few minutes or so, the smaller figure would put its snow cone down and rest its head against the larger figure’s shoulder.
  For the life of her, Asuka could NOT figure out how no one else had figured out what was going on between the two—the two parties themselves included. 
  It wasn’t even that Asuka cared to look—it was just that nothing around her ever escaped her notice.
  And this…thing between Oumae-chan and Kousaka-san had been going on for years.
  She could think of only one other person who would have the perspicacity to perceive—
  “Goodness gracious, when on earth are they going to figure it out???”
  Right on cue, Asuka thought with satisfaction, before turning around to look at her girlfriend—and then promptly forgetting about the oblivious pair she’d been watching for a good quarter of an hour.
  “Oh my,” she breathed, as she raked appreciative eyes over Kaori from head to foot. “You look good enough to eat.”
  A half smile played on the trumpet player’s lips. “Oh? Pity I’m not on the menu then.”
  Asuka snagged a finger into the belt of Kaori’s dress and drew her close. “You’d turn a starving woman away?” she drawled.
  Kaori raised an eyebrow. “Last I checked, there was a world of difference between starvation and gluttony.”
  Asuka drew her even closer. “Mmm…The line tends to blur in the face of the delectable.”
  Kaori stopped her when her face was a mere two inches away.
  “Behave now,” the trumpet player murmured, “and you just might get dessert later.”
  Asuka ran her tongue over her lower lip—and watched with a hint of satisfaction as Kaori’s eyes flickered towards her mouth. “Don’t I at least get an hors d'oeuvre?”
  “I’d rather have you build an appetite,” Kaori smirked before unhooking Asuka’s finger from her belt and gracefully stepping away.
  Asuka chuckled, feeling the by-now familiar roil of amusement, anticipation, exasperation and delight. Even if they’d been dating for months, she still hadn’t grown accustomed to this more assertive version of the Kaori she’d known for years.
  And this Kaori who felt no qualms about turning her down was…arousing to say the least.
  “Amazing,” she heard Kaori say. “They’ve been at it for…what? Three years now?”
  “It might go on for another three decades given the people involved,” Asuka snorted. “Kousaka-san’s single-mindedness can be both a blessing and a curse.”
  “You’re referring to her fixation with Taki-sensei, I suppose.”
  “Mmm. Focus is a good thing, but too much focus just leads to tunnel vision.”
  “Your favoritism is painfully apparent,” Kaori replied wryly. “That disciple of yours is just about as fixated as Kousaka-san is.”
  Asuka tittered. “Well, one fool does deserve another.”
  “You happen to care very deeply about the brown-haired fool.”
  Asuka chuckled. “A fact that makes me the biggest fool of all.” She paused for a moment—then began to stride purposefully towards the embankment.
  “Where are you going??”
  Asuka looked over her shoulder at her suspicious girlfriend and grinned. “Why, to make an even bigger fool of myself, of course.”
  As she walked away, she heard Kaori sigh. “Dear God, the things we do for love...”
  ~~~~~
  It took a few minutes’ wait before an opportunity presented itself in the form of Kousaka-san standing up and going off to dispose of two empty snow cone cups.
  Asuka didn’t miss the look on Oumae-chan’s face as she stared at the trumpet player’s receding back. It reminded Asuka of the expression she saw on her own face back in the days when they’d prepared for the Nationals:
  It was a look that combined hunger, longing and…quite possibly desire.
  She slowly crept towards her unsuspecting junior and, at the last possible moment, breathed “Ou-mae-chan!” into her ear before wrapping two arms around the younger girl’s torso.
  “Asuka-senpai!” Oumae-chan yelped—before twisting around violently in Asuka’s embrace. The sudden shift in their centers of gravity caused them both to tumble onto the ground, with the younger girl ending up underneath Asuka.
  Out of the corner of her eye, Asuka could see Kousaka-san approaching from just a few meters away.
  “You look absolutely ravishing in that autumn-leaf-patterned yukata, Oumae-chan,” Asuka murmured huskily as she traced a finger from the top of the younger girl’s shoulder all the way down the line of her arm. “I bet you’d look even more ravishing out of it though…” She left the rest of her sentence unfinished as she bent her head down towards Oumae-chan’s startled face—
  “Out of what, Asuka-senpai?”
  Asuka lifted her head and found herself staring straight into the coldest pair of violet eyes she’d ever seen.
  “Out of character, Kousaka-san,” Asuka replied cheerfully without missing a single beat. “I was thinking that this yukata here isn’t exactly typical of our Oumae-chan—though I have to say it rather suits her to a T.”
  “It would suit me to a T too if you got off me, Asuka-senpai,” the younger euphonist whined.
  “Fine,” Asuka rolled her eyes dramatically as she picked herself off the ground. “I’d have thought you’d be used to my weight by now given all the mornings when I had you moaning and trembling underneath me—”
  “It was just one morning, Asuka-senpai,” Oumae-chan replied drily.
  “And you were panting so heavily too,” Asuka went on dreamily, “right until the point when you collapsed and went completely limp—”
  “At which point Kaori-senpai intervened and quite possibly saved my life.”
  “We should go back to those days, Oumae-chan,” Asuka lamented as she cast a sentimental gaze at her protégé. “All that time we spent together keeping our lips and our fingers busy late into the night—and sometimes even into the dawn—“
  “Which always freaked my mom out, thanks very much.”
  “And then Kousaka-san comes back and you drop me like a hot potato.” The last line produced the intended effect and Asuka watched as the younger euphonist’s face burned.
  “I—I—that’s not, I mean—“
  “It’s fine, Oumae-chan,” Asuka waved a hand airily. “I’m fine with sharing.” She gazed briefly at a stone-faced Kousaka-san before slyly adding: “Though some people aren’t.” She turned around then and said her goodbye over her shoulder. “Enjoy the rest of the fireworks you two!”
  As she strode away, she could hear Kousaka-san asking Oumae-chan: “What was that about you ‘moaning and trembling’ underneath her??”
  Asuka grinned. Let the fireworks begin, she thought as she walked back towards her waiting girlfriend.
  ~~~~~
  “Was that truly necessary?” Kaori asked her as she reached the bridge.
  “Probably not,” Asuka smirked, “but there are times in one’s life when the unnecessary is precisely what’s needed.”  
  “How’d it go then?” Kaori pressed as they headed towards the opposite embankment. Asuka was vaguely aware of heads turning and gazes lingering as the two of them made their way through the crowd.
  “Rather splendidly, I think,” Asuka replied cheerfully. “The look on Kousaka-san’s face…I don’t think anyone’s ever looked at me with such venom before. It makes for a novel experience.”
  “It’s not like you to interfere,” Kaori responded evenly, “not even where Oumae-san’s concerned.” She settled herself on a fairly empty stretch of grass before looking at Asuka directly. “So what’s going on?”
  Nothing about me escapes her notice now, Asuka thought idly as she watched Kaori arrange her legs carefully on the ground. Before, she’d only see what she wanted to see or what she needed to see. 
  She didn’t know if the realization comforted her or frightened her.
  She seated herself on the grass next to Kaori before finally giving her response.
  “My mother’s threatening to disown me if I don’t transfer out of music college.”
  Kaori remained silent for several long moments.
  “You’ve decided to move out, haven’t you?”
  Asuka nodded slowly. “I’m sure I can qualify for a scholarship with my grades, though I’ll still need to work part-time to make ends meet.” She grimaced. “I may have to delay my graduation further though—“
  “We can split the rent.”
  Asuka sighed. “That doesn’t make sense. You’re living with your parents and it’s an unnecessary expense—“
  “And ‘there are times in one’s life when the unnecessary is precisely what’s needed’.”
  Asuka stiffened. “I think you’ve met your quota for doing the unnecessary, Kaori. Or have you forgotten all the superfluous gifts and gestures over the years?”
  The words were much, much harsher than she’d intended—and deep in her chest, Asuka felt the unfamiliar ache of despair.
  “Asuka…” the kindness in Kaori’s voice made Asuka look towards her girlfriend. “You’re cruel when you feel cornered, but I’m not cornering you, you know?”
  As Kaori looked at her, the tightness in Asuka’s chest began to spread to her throat.
  “I’m not your mother, Asuka,” Kaori added gently. “I’m not asking you to trade one pair of shackles for another. I’m not asking you to live with me because I want to bind you with a debt of gratitude. I’m asking you to live with me because I can’t think of anything that would make me happier than having your face be the first thing I see in the morning and the last thing I see at night. In other words: I’m not doing this for you. I’m doing this for me.”
  Asuka realized that she’d never seen Kaori look as beautiful as she did at that moment.
  And something in her chest which she’d never felt before began to throb.
  “If we lived together,” she finally replied, swallowing the lump in her throat, “will that mean that I get a buffet everyday?”
  Kaori’s laughed sounded like the chime of bells. “You really are a glutton, you know.”
  “I blame it on my childhood,” Asuka replied with a straight face. “I believe I was starved for love.”
  “Fine, fine,” Kaori relented. Then with a swiftness that took Asuka by surprise, she snagged a finger into the collar of Asuka’s shirt and pulled her close. “Just remember the cardinal rule of buffets though.”
  “Remind me,” Asuka murmured as she wrapped an arm around her girlfriend’s waist. “Hunger’s keeping me from thinking straight.”
  The gleam of Kaori’s smile in the dark was positively feral.
  “No leftovers.”
        Notes:
          I've had this chapter outlined for weeks but I held off posting it because I was curious to see what would happen as more of Season 2 unfolded. And THEN Episodes 7 to 9 happened, and suddenly details I’d been incorporating into this series began to dovetail nicely with anime canon, i.e., Asuka’s bitter relationship with her mother; the unique bond between Asuka and Kumiko (including Asuka actually tutoring Kumiko); and the long history between Asuka and Kaori. Needless to say, I couldn't keep holding off given all of that!
      P.S. Every time I think of a grown-up version of Kaori, Kyoukai no Kanata's Nase Izuma comes to mind. Maybe it's the beauty mark (although Izuma-san's is in a different place). :-D  
      Chapter 7: Crescendo
          Summary:
            In which Kumiko makes a move, Reina gets confused and Kumiko still manages to remain oblivious.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CRESCENDO
    noun  cre·scen·do  \krə-ˈshen-(ˌ)dō\
 : a gradual increase; specifically: a gradual increase in volume of a musical passage 
“Reina! Kumiko-chan’s here!”“Coming!” Reina called back and glanced at herself in the mirror one final time.The black dress was more provocative than she’d expected with its plunging V-shaped neckline, but it was probably the sort of thing to wear at what Kumiko had described as “an upscale jazz club of sorts.”“Your father and I are going ahead, okay? Just make sure to lock up when you and Kumiko-chan leave.”“Okay!” Reina replied and gave herself a final spritz of perfume.She heard her parents’ car exiting the driveway as she headed down the stairs. The moment she reached the landing, however, she realized that having an excellent lung capacity did not always guarantee the ability to breathe.Kumiko stood there in her living room wearing black cigarette pants, a white tailored shirt and a black skinny tie. One hand clutched a fedora; the other hand carried a euphonium case.“Sorry I’m late,” the taller girl smiled apologetically. “These ties are harder to do than they look.”“You look…very dashing,” Reina replied after a slightly dazed pause. She’d hesitated between saying handsome, beautiful and gorgeous and had settled for understatement instead.“It’s not like Taki-sensei’s tuxedo though,” Kumiko remarked ruefully.No. Reina silently agreed. It’s definitely NOT Taki-sensei’s tuxedo. But for some reason, it’s so, so much better than Taki-sensei’s tuxedo.“You look absolutely stunning.” The way Kumiko said it and the look in her eyes when she said it did nothing to ease Reina’s suddenly frayed nerves.And her nerves had been fraying around Kumiko more and more lately—her characteristic calm giving way at odd moments to unfamiliar excesses of emotion. For instance:…The violated outrage when Asuka-senpai had caressed Kumiko during the Uji Fireworks Festival……The intoxicating thrill when Kumiko had stroked her ankles on the night of the Agata Festival……The possessive indignation when Tsukamoto-san had attempted to wrangle a date with Kumiko……The unmitigated longing when she’d woken up in Kumiko’s arms the day after she’d returned to Japan…Kumiko had always been her shelter and her harbor but, at some point that she’d failed to notice, the safe waters between them had become suddenly…tempestuous.And Reina couldn’t figure out why.And because doing something had always been her way of managing her agitation and controlling her confusion, Reina stepped forward to adjust Kumiko’s tie.She marvelled at how her fingers barely shook.But Kumiko always knew—could read her as easily and readily as the notes on a staff.“Is something wrong?”Nothing’s wrong! Reina thought wildly. In fact, everything is too perfect. Like the line of your jaw. Like the curve of your neck. Her hand trembled over the delicate flesh above Kumiko’s collarbone.She wished she could remove the tie instead of fixing it. She wished she could tie it around those slender wrists instead. She wished that her trembling hands could move on to other things and instigate tremors of their own.She wished she understood why she was suddenly having all these wishes about her best friend.“Reina.” Slender hands grasped her forearms gently. She looked straight up into luminous amber eyes and, once again, forgot how to breathe.“Are you alright?”Oh yes. She had stayed silent for far too long. Normally, Kumiko never pressed her for answers (it was one of the very many things that she loved about Kumiko). But now, the golden eyes glowed with concern.“I’m fine,” she replied crisply. “Just exasperated that you can’t get these things right.” She gave the tie one final unnecessary pat, her fingers lingering overlong on the fabric covering her friend’s chest. “Being special requires perfection in all the little things.”“That’s why we’re so good together,” Kumiko chuckled. “You’re special and you’re perfection—and I’m all the little things.”Reina’s mouth twisted. She hated this streak of self-deprecation in Kumiko. But she didn’t want to start the evening on the wrong note either. “We should go or you’ll be late for your first gig.”“Yes, yes,” Kumiko replied agreeably before opening the door for Reina. And then, as if she hadn’t aggravated Reina enough for one evening, Kumiko turned to her after she’d locked the door and gallantly offered the smaller girl her arm.“Shall we?”For the nth time in several minutes, Reina forgot how to breathe.~~~~~“Kousaka-san! It’s good to see you again!”Reina appreciated the genuine warmth behind Asuka-senpai’s greeting, but found herself struggling to return it given the utter familiarity with which the older girl was clutching Kumiko.“You look absolutely adorable in that get-up, Oumae-chan! You’ll be breaking some boys’ hearts tonight—and maybe even a couple of girls’. Wouldn’t you agree, Kousaka-san?”The look the black-haired euphonist was directing at her was entirely too penetrating for Reina’s liking. “I’m sure you’ll be breaking hearts yourself, Asuka-senpai,” she replied evenly. “You look exceptionally stunning this evening.”The bespectacled euphonist arched an eyebrow in delighted surprise. “Coming from someone like you, Kousaka-san, that’s high praise. But what I’d really like to know,” and here she drew her sultry lips close to Kumiko’s ear, “is what Oumae-chan here thinks...”It took Reina a moment to realize that her fists were clenching tightly enough for her nails to leave marks.“Oumae-san is probably thinking that you’re much too close, Asuka,” Kaori-senpai intervened wryly. She shot Kumiko a mildly reproving glance while dragging the older woman away. “And Oumae-san, you really shouldn’t let her mess with you like this.”“Let isn’t exactly how I’d put it, Kaori-senpai,” Kumiko muttered.“Plebeians and philistines, the lot of you,” the older euphonist moaned dramatically. “You misunderstand the tender bond between a teacher and her student, the nobility of our profound yet unspoken link—““Oh, is that how they describe sexual harassment now?” Kaori-senpai interjected.“Settle down, all of you,” Haruka-senpai interrupted mildly. “We’re due on stage in a few minutes.” The former club president smiled at Reina. “We asked the manager to reserve a table near the front for you, Kousaka-san. Later on, we’d love to hear what you think about our performance.”Reina nodded. Despite Asuka-senpai’s antics, she really was looking forward to the show—especially since Kumiko had been uncharacteristically tight-lipped about it.“How’d you even find the time to squeeze in another band??” was all she’d managed to ask in the midst of the relief she’d felt after Kumiko had explained Asuka-senpai’s scandalous remarks the night of the Uji Fireworks Festival.Kumiko had simply shrugged her shoulders and laughed. “You weren’t the only one with time to kill while you were away, you know?”And when Reina finally heard the first few notes coming out of Kumiko’s euphonium that evening, she began to realize just how much time Kumiko had spent practicing while she was in America.It was a side to Kumiko’s playing she’d never heard before, AND, it embodied Kumiko’s paradoxical qualities through and through: the odd mixture of earnestness and nonchalance, passion and insouciance, determination and mischief—all threaded together by a deep and abiding love for the craft of music itself.As she watched and listened, Reina became aware all over again of just how much Kumiko had changed: still familiar and comfortable in the ways that mattered, but also mysterious and disconcerting in ways she was only beginning to realize mattered.She didn’t know if the discovery exhilarated her or terrified her.And just like that, and far too soon, the two hours of the performance were over. She was still in a state of relative shock when Kumiko made her way to her table.“Did you like it?” Kumiko asked just the slightest bit anxiously.She smiled. “I loved it. I loved you.” She hastily corrected herself. “How you played, I mean. Jazz really suits you.”Kumiko sighed in relief as she slumped into the chair next to Reina. “I’m glad you enjoyed it.” She gave Reina a lopsided grin. “Especially since I played just for you.”She says it so casually, Reina thought as a spasm went through her heart at the admission.To distract herself from the ache in her chest, Reina decided to tease Kumiko in response: “Oh? I thought it bothered you when people played music just for other people.”Kumiko shook her head. “I play for myself too. But I sound best when I play while thinking of you.”And just like that, another tremor passed through Reina’s heart.Which was why she was actually grateful when Asuka-senpai showed up at their table with a celebratory bottle of wine in hand.Though grateful wasn’t exactly how she felt two hours and five bottles of wine later when Kumiko was practically asleep on her shoulder.“Oh dear,” Asuka-senpai tittered. “To think an apprentice of mine would be such a lightweight. I’ve overlooked an essential part of her education, I see—”“I think you’ve schooled her far enough, Asuka,” Haruka-senpai interrupted drily. “In fact, your interest in Oumae-san’s continuing education borders on the disturbing.”The black-haired euphonist waved a hand airily. “Isn’t it normal for a mentor to be concerned about her protégé?”Haruka-senpai rolled her eyes. “You’ve never been normal, never been a mentor and never been concerned—protégé or no protégé.”Asuka-senpai grabbed her chest. “’The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness, and time to speak it in: you rub the sore—‘”“We’ll need to save the Shakespeare for another time,” Kaori-senpai cut in. “It’s getting quite late and we really do need to make sure Oumae-san gets home safely.”After hesitating briefly, a slightly red-faced Tsukamoto-san raised a hand: “I could take Ku— I mean Oumae-san home.”Reina responded at the exact same time as Asuka-senpai: “No!”“Well, she is my charge,” the black-haired euphonist smirked after a pause. “I should take her home.”This time, it was Kaori-senpai who spoke in unison with Reina: “NO!”Then before anyone else could say anything else, Reina stood up and emphatically declared: “I’m taking Kumiko home.”Haruka-senpai sighed in relief. “That sounds like the most reasonable course of action. Thank you, Kousaka-san.”A few minutes and some assistance later, they managed to deposit Kumiko into a cab with Reina.“Well then,” Asuka-senpai smiled as she poked her head into the window for a final goodbye. “We’ll be leaving Oumae-chan in your…capable hands then, Kousaka-san.”“She’ll be safe with me, Asuka-senpai,” Reina responded evenly.“Oh, I wasn’t concerned about that,” the bespectacled euphonist smirked as she stepped back onto the curb. “What I was worried about was whether you would be safe with her.”And before Reina could ask the older woman what she meant, she’d turned around and gone.~~~~~“Kumiko,” Reina spoke gently, “it’s time to get up.”By a stroke of luck, a fair bit of Kumiko’s inebriation had evaporated during the cab ride to Reina’s house and holding onto the railing was all the assistance she needed to ascend the stairs to Reina’s room. Reina had already messaged Kumiko’s mother enroute that Kumiko would be staying at Reina’s house that night.“How on earth can you not be drunk?” Kumiko drawled from where she lay on Reina’s bed. “You drank twice as much as I did.”Reina chuckled as she padded off to her dresser to take off her jewelry. “I learned to drink from all the parties my parents threw for my father’s friends.”“I should’ve figured,” Kumiko snorted. “You’ve always been the sophisticate.”“I’m not particularly sophisticated,” Reina laughed as she put her earrings back into their box. “You just have an unusually low tolerance for alcohol.”“Matched, I believe, by a currently low tolerance for ties.” Reina heard the sound of fabric sliding on fabric and turned around—And froze.At some point between the time she’d deposited Kumiko on her bed and taken off her jewelry, the taller girl had managed to undo her tie and the top buttons of her shirt.Now the halo from her bedside lamp shone on a tantalizing expanse of skin and Reina found herself staring at a modest amount of cleavage.And, as if that weren’t aggravation enough, Kumiko reached towards the clasp that held her hair and shook her locks free, causing a cascade of chestnut curls to tumble over beguilingly slender shoulders.When, Reina thought with panic, did she learn to move like that?? “I…I…I’ll get you some water.” She back-pedaled out of the room on oddly shaky legs.When she returned minutes later, she found Kumiko bent over her CD player and, after a few moments, heard the opening bars of Laura &amp; Anton’s La Vie En Rose.Kumiko straightened up from where she stood and beamed at the sight of Reina. With a hint of a smile on her lips, she reached out a hand.“Shall we dance?”Reina put the glass of water down abruptly. She suddenly found herself unable to trust her grip on things—solid objects included.She nearly stepped back when Kumiko drew close. For the first time in all the years they’d been together, Kumiko occurred to her as dangerous.Overwhelming.
  Irresistible.
And just like that, Asuka-senpai’s parting words to her came back full force.Kumiko caught her around the hip and drew her close—before shifting her hand to curve possessively over Reina’s rear.Reina bit her lip to stifle a moan.“I’ve been wanting to do this all evening, you know?”The whisper, bordering on a growl, made Reina’s knees grow weak.“Do…Do what?” she questioned breathlessly.Kumiko laughed, a low throaty rumble that vibrated somewhere in the base of Reina’s spine.“Inhale that intoxicating scent of yours, of course…”That was when she felt the tip of a delicate nose graze the taut lines of her neck.Reina shuddered.This wasn’t the Kumiko she knew.This wasn’t the Kumiko she loved.So why, oh why, did she want so badly for this Kumiko to stay?And because doing something had always been her way of managing her agitation and controlling her confusion, Reina decided to talk.“I…I didn’t know you knew how to dance.”She marvelled at how her voice barely quavered.Kumiko’s laugh sounded like the chime of bells. “Asuka-senpai taught me.”Reina stiffened.“She seems to have taught you a lot of…things.”“Some of them not entirely sensible,” Kumiko chuckled. “Though to be fair, I wouldn’t be doing as well as I’m doing now if it weren’t for her.”Reina found her hands tightening around Kumiko’s back.“You seem to have spent more time together than I realized.”“Urgh. Tell me about it. There were times when I practically lived in her house.”Although Kumiko had explained exactly what she’d done in the older euphonist’s house, Reina couldn’t help feeling the terrible sense of constriction that gripped her chest at that moment.“What on earth possessed you to try to learn all those things anyway?” she asked with just the mildest sense of jealous irritation. “You don’t need to go that far for the band…”Kumiko twirled her around and dipped her low. “But it’s not for the band. Even the band’s just one more thing to learn.”“Then why?” Reina asked in complete bewilderment.Kumiko looked at her with an expression that revealed that she’d assumed it to be obvious. “Because how else would someone like me be able to keep up with someone like you?”Reina stopped—and the abruptness of her halt caused Kumiko’s legs to tangle around hers.She wasn’t sure if it was the impact of the fall that caused her heart to beat wildly, or the enormity of Kumiko’s confession, or the proximity of Kumiko’s face hovering above hers.“You…You…You did all of that, for me?” she asked in a daze.Kumiko looked at her oddly. “Of course. I made a promise to you, remember?”Reina reached up and grabbed the lapels of Kumiko’s shirt.She had no idea what she intended to do.“Reina…” Kumiko whispered, her eyelids fluttering shut.“Yes?” Reina replied breathlessly, suddenly entranced by the sweep of chestnut lashes against angular cheekbones.“I’m…getting…really…sleepy...”And with that, the taller girl slipped out of Reina’s grip and curled on her side on the floor.For a long disbelieving moment, Reina couldn’t decide if she was amused, infuriated, disappointed or relieved.Then with a sigh, she got up, switched the lamp off, and returned a few moments later with two pillows and a blanket.As she stared at her best friend’s sleeping face in the moonlight, the memory of Kumiko’s words returned full force.Because how else would someone like me be able to keep up with someone like you?“You idiot,” she whispered past the lump in her throat, “do you have any idea—any idea at all—how special you are??”And because there was nothing else that she could do that night, she lay down next to Kumiko—and carefully insinuated herself into her best friend’s arms.It was all she could do.And for that night at least, it was more than enough.
        Notes:
          So yes, this chapter’s much longer than usual, but I needed to make up for the last two absolutely APPALLING episodes of Season 2. I mean, did KyoAni really have to subject us to 40+ stomach-churning minutes of Reina pining for Taki-sensei WITH Kumiko’s full support while giving Shuuichi some serious screen time with Kumiko??? WTF??? At any rate, I haven't decided yet if I'm going to incorporate the developments of Episodes 11 and 12 into this series. As things stand, it's still possible to salvage a romance between Kumiko and Reina though it's going to take a bit of...literary maneuvering. P.S. Asuka’s Shakespearean quote is taken from Act 2, Scene 1 of The Tempest, when Gonzolo speaks to Sebastian.
      Chapter 8: Capriccio I
          Summary:
            In which Asuka sets an example, Mizore and Natsuki get inspired and Kumiko manages to remain oblivious.
        Notes:
          This particular chapter was written in semi-omake style and it references a few other yuri shows that some of you may or may not have seen. As a way of assisting readers who aren't familiar with these shows, I've included links to some key visuals in the text itself. Those who haven't seen Puella Magi Madoka Magica yet will definitely need to be careful as this chapter has spoilers to that show.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CAPRICCIO I
    noun ca·pric·cio  \kə-ˈprē-ch(ē-ˌ)ō\
 :  a humorous, fanciful, or bizarre, composition, often characterized by an idiosyncratic departure from current stylistic norms 
“This wasn’t exactly what I had in mind when I set up the Couples Category for the Best in Costume award.”Midori looked at her scowling friend with amusement and shook her head. “You should have anticipated this, Hazuki-chan. After all, there aren’t that many couples in the band—but there are a lot of best friends.”Hazuki-chan sighed. “Yes, but even we didn’t come in matching costumes and we’re pretty close.”Midori chuckled. “Look at the bright side: We ended up with a lot more contestants than usual and some of the evening’s best get-ups are coming from the new category.”The tuba player waved a hand irritably. “Well, if it’s any consolation to me, at least Kumiko-chan and Kousaka-san aren’t going to show up as a couple. Otherwise, we’ll end up being the only friends who aren’t matched.”“What makes you so sure that Kumiko-chan and Kousaka-san aren’t going to show up as a pair?”Hazuki-chan guffawed. “Are you kidding me??? Kousaka-san would never let Kumiko-chan put her up to it.”Midori squinted off into the distance. “I wouldn’t be too sure about that…”The tuba player glanced sharply at her. “Why?”“Because guess who just came in as Puella Magi Madoka Magica’s Kaname Madoka and Akemi Homura?”~~~~~“I really, really shouldn’t have let you put me up to this,” Reina sighed as she felt yet another pair of wondering eyes trained in her direction.“Are you kidding me???” Kumiko gaped. “You look absolutely gorgeous! Plus you’re a dead ringer for Akemi Homura—especially in her Demon incarnation.”Reina looked at her wryly. “I can’t even tell if that’s a compliment or an insult. At any rate, I’m not sure if dressing up as a pair of magical girls is going to allow us to join the Couples Category. Knowing Katou-san, it probably wasn’t what she had in mind.““I don’t think she has a choice,” Kumiko grinned as she tilted her head towards a pair standing close to the drinks table. “After all, last year’s club president and vice-president got the same idea that we did.”~~~~~“Aaaaaaaargh! I thought we’d be a shoo-in for the award as the only all-female pair in the Couples Category!”Natsuki looked with amusement at the blonde dressed in green finery and brown boots. “Aren’t you taking this just a bit too seriously, Finé-sama?”“The prizes offered at the concert band’s annual Halloween Costume Party are not something to be taken lightly, Izetta. There’s usually enough money on offer to buy a new instrument.” Yuuko looked around the room with narrowed eyes then hissed. “Damn! We’re at a disadvantage too given that Shuumatsu No Izetta isn’t all that popular yet. Plus these costumes aren’t all that revealing—““Speak for yourself,” Natsuki snorted. “My breasts are practically on display in this white slip of a dress.”“Crap!” Yuuko exclaimed as she ignored her partner completely. “There’s our competition right there.”“Where?” Natsuki sighed. As far as she could tell, they were surrounded by competition.“Two o’clock from where you’re standing,” Yuuko replied grimly.And that was when Natsuki saw the pair of aircraft carriers from Kantai Collection.~~~~~“Goodness gracious, it looks like everyone had the same idea that we did, Mizore!”Mizore tugged self-consciously at her side pony-tail. “Do you think we still have a chance, Nozomi-senpai?”“Well,” the taller girl put a finger to her lips in thought. “A huge part of the contest’s criteria has to do with how closely the participants resemble the characters they’re portraying both in appearance and in personality. With you as Kaga and with me as Akagi…I’d say our chances are pretty high.”“Do you think our chances are going to hold up against theirs?”Nozomi-senpai looked in the direction that Mizore was staring and promptly cursed.~~~~~“Is it just me,” Asuka drawled, “or is everyone looking our way?”“Figure-hugging black leather has a way of attracting attention, I suppose,” Kaori replied drily.“I’m sooo glad it’s you wearing all that leather then,” Asuka tittered. “This schoolteacher look suits me just fine.”“I still find it excessively unfair that I have to be in the one in the over-the-top costume when it was your idea to join this contest.”“You’re not going to be complaining when we win that prize,” Asuka replied with a wicked grin. Then with a sly look at her girlfriend, she murmured. “And you’re definitely not going to be complaining when I get you out of all that leather either.” “Your confidence borders on arrogance, as always,” Kaori sighed. “How can you be so sure we’ll win? I doubt anyone here apart from the diehard otakus will have seen Read or Die or heard of Yomiko Readman and Nancy Makuhari.”“Oh ye of little faith,” Asuka chuckled. “I’ve got a plan.”~~~~~“Good evening, everyone, and thank you for going all out in our annual Halloween Costume Party! This year, we introduced a Couple’s Category for the Best in Costume competition and we’ve ended up with quite a number of…unorthodox pairs. Based on all your votes, however, we’ve narrowed the contestants down to four sets of finalists. Let’s all give a hand for Nozomi-senpai and Mizore-senpai; Yuuko-senpai and Natsuki-senpai; Oumae-chan and Kousaka-san; and Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai!”Hazuki waited for the applause to die down before continuing.“Tonight’s winner will be decided by a question-and-answer portion with a representative from each couple to be drawn by lot. Representatives get brownie points for giving answers that are in character but, ultimately, it’s the audience’s reaction that will decide who wins.“Now, our question for our contestants is this: What is the ultimate proof of your love for your partner???”Hazuki picked a piece of paper from the bowl held by Midori and called out:“Mizore-senpai, or should I say Kaga-san, you’re up first! What is the ultimate proof of your love for your partner?”The blue-haired oboist paused. Then with a completely straight face, she replied: “I would kill for her.”Hazuki nodded as the audience clapped. “Coming from you, Mizore-senpai, that’s entirely believable.” Then she drew another piece of paper and called out:“Natsuki-senpai, or Izetta-san, you’re up next. What is the ultimate proof of your love for your partner?”The brown-haired euphonist glanced sideways at her partner and grinned. “I would die for her. While wearing an indecent white dress and straddling an anti-tank rifle for her.”Hazuki nodded sagely as the audience hooted and whistled. “It’s so like you to use the words ‘indecent’ and ‘straddling’ in the same sentence, Natsuki-senpai.” She took another piece of paper and called out:“How about you, Kousaka-san, or should I say Homura-chan? How would you prove your love for Madoka-chan?”The black-haired trumpeter stepped forward and gracefully flipped her raven locks over one shoulder before replying in a monotone. “I would kill for her, die for her, relive the same period of time a hundred times for her and rewrite the laws of the universe for her.”Hazuki nodded as the audience’s roar muffled her response. “How very Homura-chan…and come to think of it, how very Kousaka-san too.” She rooted in the bowl one final time.“And how about you Asuka-senpai or Yomiko-san? What’s your ultimate proof of your love for Nancy-san?”“Dear me,” the black-haired euphonist purred, “it’s hard to top an answer like Kousaka-san’s. Plus I don’t actually know all that much about this series or this character. So let me see…”After pausing for a moment, she continued. “The ultimate proof of my love for Nancy is that I would go totally…gay for her.”The entire auditorium went silent and even Hazuki paused uncertainly. “Umm…what exactly do you mean by that, Asuka-senpai??”A wicked grin flashed across the former club vice-president’s face. “It just means…this.”And before any of them could react, the bespectacled euphonist grabbed her partner, dipped her low—And kissed her deeply before the entire shocked ensemble.Absolute silence reigned for several long seconds—before the hall finally erupted into thunderous applause.Off to the side, Hazuki saw Natsuki-senpai shake her head.“There’s really no beating her, is there?”And with a completely straight face, Mizore-senpai replied:“Well, you know what they say. If you can’t beat them, join them.”~~~~~Two hours later, Nozomi found herself on the roof deck with Mizore.“Asuka-senpai really is something else,” she chuckled. “She doesn’t quite play by the rules, but she always manages to win.” She glanced at Mizore and smiled. “I thought your answer was sweet though.”Mizore looked at her in all seriousness. “I really would kill for you, you know.”Nozomi shook her head and smiled. “I’d rather you didn’t. You scare our friends enough, as it is.”“I’d kill my pride,” Mizore went on quietly as if she hadn’t heard Nozomi. “I’d kill my fear.”“Erm, Mizore…?” Nozomi looked on in bafflement as the shorter girl drew close and reached for the collar of her blouse.  “And maybe…” Mizore went on in a whisper, “I’d even kill my hope too…”And with that, she looked up, and slowly and gently pressed her lips to Nozomi’s.A long moment passed during which time all that could be heard was the autumn breeze blowing through starlit trees.“Do you have any idea,” Nozomi murmured several seconds after they parted, “how long I’ve been waiting for you to do that??”Mizore looked at her in shock. “Then why…why didn’t you say anything??”Nozomi smiled. “Because I needed this to come from you. You’re always waiting for me to take the lead; always waiting for me to give permission. I just wanted you to, I don’t know, for once, take what you want—“She was cut off when Mizore pulled her in abruptly for another kiss.When they finally parted, Mizore looked at her with an eyebrow raised. “Like that?”Nozomi chuckled. “You always were a fast learner,” she murmured. “Now, speaking as one aircraft carrier to another, get back here and float my boat.”~~~~~“Well, if we had to lose, at least we lost to Kaori-senpai and Asuka-senpai.”Natsuki chuckled. “You make it sound like it was a close contest. But honestly, there’s no winning against Asuka-senpai. We should have just given up the moment they called her to the stage.”Yuuko remained quiet. But her next words threw Natsuki for a loop. “Would you really die for me?”Natsuki thought back on all the times she’d seen Yuuko pine for Kaori-senpai and then for Mizore-san, recalling how each instance had felt like a tiny death.“I already have, actually,” she chuckled. “More times than you realize.”Yuuko simply stared at her, letting her cryptic comment hang in the air between them.“Idiot,” she muttered, “I don’t want you to die for me. I’d rather…”She spoke the next words so quietly that Natsuki failed to hear them.“You’d rather I what?”Yuuko looked at her with her eyes glistening and her cheeks burning…and Natsuki thought that she’d never looked as beautiful as she did at that moment.“I’d rather you live for me.”Natsuki stared. After a long, endless moment, she started to laugh.“What??” Yuuko yelled at her in embarrassed indignation.“Idiot,” Natsuki murmured affectionately as she drew closer to the other girl. “Try asking me for something I’m not already doing.”She allowed herself one final, indulgent look at Yuuko’s bewildered features before covering the blonde’s lips with hers.~~~~~“I really thought they should have gotten together. Madoka and Homura, I mean. Given all they went through, the franchise’s ending was heartless and spiteful.”Kumiko chuckled. “I didn’t know you actually watched the series. And I didn’t know you were into yuri either.”Reina shrugged. “It made sense to do a bit of research. Just due diligence, you know.” She chose her next words carefully. “And it’s not that I’m into yuri…I don’t think of it as two girls getting together so much as two…soulmates getting together.“That’s so you—to watch a show just because you have to dress up as one of the characters. But yeah, I think Madoka and Homura should’ve gotten together too. Hazuki-chan called it yuri baiting, I think, and apparently there’s a lot of it going around.”“So did you really not know about Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai??”Kumiko sighed. “I didn’t have a clue.”Reina shook her head. “For someone so curiously perceptive, you can be so appallingly oblivious at times.”“’Because we see things so often, we see them less and less’,” Kumiko quoted. Then she looked at Reina and shrugged. “Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai have been close for years. I guess I just didn’t notice that things had changed between them.”“There’s been a lot of that lately…” Reina murmured. “Things changing in between…” She looked at Kumiko then ventured in a strangely hesitant voice: “Sometimes, I get the feeling that even things between us are changing too…”Kumiko glanced at her and smiled. “Things change. They always do. But no matter what happens, I’ll always be by your side.”Reina paused as a tremor went through her chest. “Is that…Is that another confession of love?”“Nope,” Kumiko replied gravely, “iIt’s a proposal.” She reached out and laced her fingers through Reina’s. “I’m not special enough to rewrite the laws of the universe for you, but I can stay with you until my time in this universe ends.”Reina stared at Kumiko’s fingers as they twined around her hand and felt the strangest urge to press her lips against the delicate knuckles.“Good,” she managed to reply past the lump in her throat. “Because I’ll kill you if you don’t.”“That part of you, at least,” Kumiko chuckled, “hasn’t changed at all.”Reina stayed silent for a few moments. “Do you want that part of me to change?” she asked, her voice curiously flat. “I know I’m demanding. And high maintenance. And high strung.”“Nope,” Kumiko replied cheerfully. “I wouldn’t have you any other way.”Reina gazed at her for several moments before sighing and pressing her face into Kumiko’s shoulder. “You really are terrible, you know,” she muttered, her voice muffled by Kumiko’s sleeve. “Jerking my heart around this way and that...”“Say that again?” Kumiko asked.  “It’s not important,” Reina replied before sitting up straight and squaring her shoulders. “But I wouldn’t have you any other way either. Even if your obliviousness means that I’ll need to take matters into my own hands.”“I have no idea what you’re talking about.”Reina smiled. “I know.” She pressed herself closer to Kumiko and lay her head on the taller girl’s shoulder. “Trust me, I know.”~~~~~“Did you really have to go and do something that…unnecessary??”Asuka tittered. “You know my views about the unnecessary. And besides,” she added with a roll of her eyes, “I needed to do something to give those six a clue. I mean, who goes to a Halloween party dressed as one half of a yuri pair and still think it’s just about being friends??”Kaori laughed. “Just about half the band, I think. You should have seen their faces. I couldn’t tell if they were outraged, offended, titillated or envious.”“I’d go with titillated and envious,” Asuka replied smugly. “After all, we make a shockingly good-looking pair…”“That outrageous confidence of yours,” Kaori rolled her eyes. Then she looked at her girlfriend and raised an eyebrow. “Who would’ve thought you’d turn into a poster girl for all things yuri?”“Who’d have thought I’d turn into a poster girl for anything?” Asuka sighed. “I used to not care about all these things.”“Well, you have a way of shaking things up, so let’s see what the fall-out’s going to be from your little demonstration.”Asuka put a finger to her lips thoughtfully. “I’d put my money on Mizore-san, Nozomi-san, Natsuki-san and Yuuko-san. Anything more than that would be claiming too much credit.”Kaori chuckled. “Oh ye of little faith. Do you really think your apprentice is that oblivious?”“’Because we see things so often, we see them less and less’,” Asuka quoted. “I keep repeating that line to Oumae-chan in the hopes she’ll cotton on, but so far, it’s been no cigar. As another case in point, she never noticed that we were going out.”“To be fair to Oumae-san,” Kaori countered, “you can be fiendishly clever when it comes to hiding things you want concealed.”“And fabulously over-the-top when it comes to revealing things I want exposed,” Asuka smirked in clear reference to the stunt she’d pulled.“Well, you’ve had your fun. I say it’s time I have mine,” Kaori murmured, hooking an arm around Asuka’s neck.“Mmm…What did you have in mind?”The gleam of Kaori’s smile was predatory in the dark. “Oh…Just you. And me. Minus all this leather of course.”
        Notes:
          This chapter is about as fluffy as I'm ever going to get and I wrote it to celebrate the fact that KyoAni did NOT totally sink the KumiRei ship. Although Season 2's Episode 13 was wildly anticlimactic, at least it incorporated details that fit in nicely with much earlier chapters of this series (i.e., Asuka giving Kumiko her book of euphonium pieces). I couldn't resist putting in a couple of digs against the show's writers though, which I'm sure all of you spotted :-DAnd yes, it's official: Rhapsody in E WILL factor in the developments of Episodes 11 and 12 of Season 2. So be ready for a roller coaster, mwahahaha. P.S. Asuka's quote, which Kumiko borrows, is from the American businessman Joseph Wirthlin.
      Chapter 9: Accelerando
          Summary:
            In which Reina makes several moves and Kumiko loses a lot of blood—while still managing to remain oblivious.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    ACCELERANDO
    noun ac·ce·le·ran·do  \(ˌ)ä-ˌche-lə-ˈrän-(ˌ)dō\
   : a gradual increase in tempo 
“Reina! Kumiko-chan’s here!”“Coming!”Kumiko heard the muffled sound of Reina’s voice floating from her upstairs bedroom as she knelt down at the entranceway to untie her shoelaces. It was a beautiful autumn day—and one that Kumiko felt shouldn’t have been wasted staying indoors.At least that was what she thought until she brought her head up and found her eyes traveling up a pair of shockingly bare legs.“What are you doing gaping like that?” Reina asked her in amusement. “It’s not like you haven’t seen my legs before.”That was true, Kumiko thought in the midst of a thick daze. She had seen Reina’s legs before—when she’d been clad in a swimsuit no less—but, but, there was something vastly more…scintillating in seeing those legs clad in a scandalously short denim jumper.“If you’re going to stay like that for much longer, I’m going to start expecting a ring.”Kumiko started when she realized that she was still down on one knee. She hastily tore her other shoe off and stood up. “If I did give you a ring,” she retorted as she and Reina ascended the stairs, “would I get to see your legs like that all the time?”Reina paused midstride and looked over her shoulder at Kumiko. “If you gave me a ring,” she smiled coyly, “you’d get to see much, much more than just my bare legs…”That was the moment when Kumiko’s foot caught the top of the step and led to a spectacular collision between her forehead and the landing.Despite the pain, she was immensely grateful for the stars that clouded her vision—they helped obscure the incredibly inappropriate images of Reina that flooded her mind.When she finally managed to open her eyes, she found her best friend hovering over her with a worried expression. “I swear to God, you are such a klutz. Are you okay?”Kumiko groaned as she tried to sit up. “I’m fi—“ she started to answer, and then realized that sitting up at a particular angle gave her an unparalleled view of a pair of exceptionally luscious breasts.Kumiko squeezed her eyes shut. “Stars…” she muttered. “Where are the stars when I need them?”“Well, you’re just about as strange as you normally are, so I guess you’re fine,” Reina concluded wryly, “though we will need to dress that cut.”Kumiko was still holding the ice pack to her forehead with her back propped against Reina’s bed when Reina came back with a first aid kit.“Hold still,” Reina ordered her—before swinging a leg over Kumiko’s torso and straddling her altogether.A sound between a burble and a squeak escaped Kumiko’s throat. The sensation of Reina’s thighs pressing against her hips gave her the distinct feeling that the ice pack was more necessary elsewhere. Reina glanced down at her sardonically. “I haven’t even touched the cut yet and you’re stiffening already.”“I’m not the one who’s into pain,” Kumiko ground out.She marvelled at how her voice barely quavered.“Well, at least you don’t need stitches,” Reina replied after carefully inspecting the wound.Kumiko winced. “I wish I could say the same about my costume.”Reina shook her head as she started swabbing Kumiko’s forehead with an antiseptic. “What possessed your classmates to insist on hand-made costumes anyway?”“A spirit called Hazuki-chan,” Kumiko replied wryly. “You know how she is when she gets an idea into her head.” She hissed when Reina went over a particularly tender spot. “I still think it’s funny that your class ends up doing a maid café this year while my class ends up doing a haunted house.” She paused for a moment before venturing: “You wouldn’t happen to still have your costume from that year, do you—““Absolutely not,” Reina replied, quashing Kumiko’s hopes. “Aside from the fact that that would be cheating, you don’t exactly fit the image of a yuki-onna. You’d make a good nekomata though with those golden eyes of yours.”Kumiko sighed. “That’s what Shuuichi said too.”“Oh?” An unreadable expression descended on Reina’s features. “So you decided to be a nekomata because Tsukamoto-san said so?”“No, I ended up as a nekomata because the whole class said so after hearing Shuuichi say so,” Kumiko muttered, still irritated by the memory.A corner of Reina’s lips quirked up in a smile. “Well,” she murmured as she began to smooth a Band-Aid over the cut on Kumiko’s forehead, “if you need to rehearse the role, I wouldn’t mind being abducted and eaten by an amber-eyed nekomata…”Kumiko was suddenly glad that she was sitting on the floor; her legs would have given way if she’d been standing.“Well, you’re all patched up and ready to go,” Reina declared with a devilish grin—before easing off Kumiko in a way that afforded the taller girl yet another generous glimpse of her tantalizing cleavage.Kumiko had the suspicion that the lightheadedness she felt at that moment had little to do with the shock of her fall.Though lightheadedness probably wasn’t the reason why she still couldn’t thread her needle after she and Reina had settled into their respective work stations. Despite several attempts over the years, Kumiko had never quite gotten the hang of sewing.“Here. This is how you do it.”She’d been so intent on her task that she hadn’t even realized that Reina had gotten up from her side of the table. Slender arms enclosed her from behind as Reina took Kumiko’s hands in hers and expertly guided the thread through the needle’s eye.“See?”In all honesty, Kumiko couldn’t see. All her other senses had shut down the moment she’d felt Reina’s breasts pressing into her back.She bit her lip to stifle a moan—And shuddered when she felt a pair of lips brushing against her ear.“Now, try it again.”Before Kumiko could protest, Reina drew the thread out before returning to her seat and resuming her homework.Kumiko took a second to compose herself. At that moment, she wanted very, very badly to ask Reina to show her how to do it again.She focused on threading the needle instead.The next hour passed productively enough. Her stitches were crude but she figured no one would notice in the dim lighting of the haunted house. The biggest problem was her cat ears: The padding was so thick that she had difficulty puncturing the fabric. Kumiko adjusted her grip so she could use both of her thumbs to push the needle—and promptly yelped when it suddenly went through the material and right into the tip of her index finger.“Owww…” she ground out through gritted teeth as she pressed the base of her finger to stop the bleeding.“What is up with you today??” Reina shook her head as she knelt down next to Kumiko. “You’re a walking and sitting disaster. Give me that hand.”Whatever pain Kumiko had been feeling up to that point completely and utterly evaporated when Reina put her index finger into her mouth…and sucked.Kumiko whimpered—And nearly passed out when Reina drew her finger out with excruciating slowness before giving it a little lick.“That should help with the pain,” Reina smiled before standing up. “But since you still have a bit more sewing to do, let’s pad that finger with some gauze and a Band-Aid.”Kumiko took several seconds to compose herself. At that moment, she wanted very, very badly to puncture the rest of her fingers—and possibly her toes (and her neck)—with the needle.Just the thought of what Reina would do then was enough to make the lightheadedness return.“Kumiko?”Kumiko raised her head to find Reina staring at her with a worried expression.“Your nose is bleeding.”~~~~~“I’m sorry you’re not getting much done today given how I’m being such a spaz.”Reina chuckled. “On the contrary, I think it’s been rather…productive.”The tone in Reina’s voice made Kumiko look up in suspicion. True enough, she detected just the slightest hint of satisfaction on her best friend’s face.“Is there something you’re not telling me?”“Hmm. I wonder.”Kumiko dropped her head back onto Reina’s lap. Despite the discomfort entailed in having to press her nostrils firmly between her fingers, she felt remarkably relaxed. “I could stay like this forever,” she sighed, her eyes shutting in contentment.“You mean, like this with your head between my legs?”Whatever progress she’d made in staunching the bleeding was lost when she felt another blood vessel in her nose give way.“Reina,” Kumiko muttered between gritted teeth, “you really did NOT have to put it that way.”“Why not?” Reina asked with an expression of pure innocence. “When you’re lying on my lap like this, your head does end up between my legs—““Okay!” Kumiko conceded with a hint of panic as the flood of illicit and inappropriate images rose unabated.She had no idea how she was going to get those images out of her head.“Stop moving so violently,” Reina chided her. “Look, your nose is bleeding again.”“And whose fault would that be?” Kumiko muttered as she pressed more firmly against the sides of her nose.“Say that again?” Reina asked.“It’s nothing,” Kumiko sighed, then paused when she felt gentle fingers stroking her forehead. They stayed that way for several minutes before Reina spoke again.“You really are such a spaz, you know…”Kumiko stayed silent for a few moments. “Do you want that part of me to change?” she asked, her voice curiously timid. “I know I’m awkward. And clumsy. And tactless.”“Nope,” Reina chuckled affectionately. “I wouldn’t have you any other way.”Their gazes locked then, and as she lost herself in Reina’s luminous violet eyes, Kumiko felt it—the sensation that she’d been feeling so many times lately—the brush of some massive and momentous realization, with all the gravity and weight of an iceberg tipping…Except that something in her shied away from the realization, as it had shied away so many times before…And then, just like that—and just like so many times before—both the impending epiphany and its instinctive evasion were gone, eclipsed by the proximity of an impossibly beautiful girl who just happened to be her best friend.Kumiko reached up and grabbed the straps of Reina’s jumper.She had no idea what she intended to do.“Kumiko…” Reina murmured, her face drawing perilously close.“Yes?” Kumiko replied breathlessly, hopelessly bewitched by the sweep of raven lashes against delicate cheekbones.“You should go back to holding your nostrils. Your nose is still bleeding you know.”~~~~~“Thanks for letting me come over,” Kumiko grinned bashfully as she stood at the door to say goodbye. “I wouldn’t have managed to finish my costume without your help.”“It was worth it,” Reina replied with a wicked grin. “After all, I got you to strike a few poses that probably wouldn’t be appropriate in a haunted house setting.”Kumiko cringed. “Please keep those photos to yourself.  I’m dead if they fall into Asuka-senpai’s hands.”“Trust me,” Reina replied with the slightest hint of irony in her voice. “I have no intention of sharing anything of mine with Asuka-senpai.”Just before she left, Kumiko turned around one final time. After all, it had been bothering her the entire day.“Do you…” She paused and took a deep breath. “Do you go out dressed like this at other times? I mean, I don’t want other people to see—I mean, it’s probably not a good idea to show—What I’m trying to say is, maybe you should cover up your legs, given how exquis—I mean how exposed they are!”Kumiko broke off and took another deep breath. She wasn’t going anywhere with this. In fact, she wasn’t entirely sure herself where she wanted to go with this. After all, it wasn’t her business what Reina wore—All thought stopped when Reina sidled up to her and casually removed a piece of thread on her shirt. In a low throaty rumble that succeeded spectacularly in turning Kumiko’s legs into jelly, the smaller girl replied:“What you mean to say is, you’d like to keep the sight of my exquisite legs all to yourself.”For a moment, Kumiko stared at Reina, flustered beyond words.Reina laughed. “That foot fetish of yours is getting worse, Kumiko. But don’t worry, I’ll save the sight of my exquisite legs just for you—even without a ring.”And with that, she turned and left Kumiko at the doorway.Just before she shut the door, however, she called out to Kumiko one final time:“And just in case you haven’t noticed it yet, your nose is bleeding again.”
        Notes:
          For the people who aren't too familiar with Japanese mythology, the yuki-onna is an inhumanly beautiful woman with long black hair and pale skin who's associated with winter. In Season 1's famous Episode 8, Kumiko actually alludes to the legend of the yuki-onna when she says that she'll be fine being "sucked in" by Reina and dying. Although I'm not entirely sure if Reina played the part of a yuki-onna in Season 2, Episode 6's haunted house scene, it felt like a defensible assumption to make. Finally, a nekomata is a type of cat spirit with some legends describing it as a creature that abducts and eats humans (a fact that Reina...reinterprets with great delight, LOL).
      Chapter 10: Custos I
          Summary:
            In which Natsuki goes undercover, Kumiko sheds some light and Yuuko gains the upper hand.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CUSTOS I
    noun cus·tos  \ˈkəˌstäs, -tōs; ˈku̇ˌstōs\
   : symbol at the very end of a staff of music which indicates the pitch for the first note of the next line as a warning of what is to come 
“Yo. Need a hand?”The figure kneeling by the side of the tub turned around at the sound of Natsuki’s voice and waved distractedly.“I’m good, but I suppose this’ll go much faster if there’s two of us.”Natsuki nodded and made a beeline for the tubes lined up on the towel next to Oumae-chan.“This brings back memories,” she chuckled as she took a snake brush and began scrubbing the insides of the first slide.“If it’s just a memory,” the younger euphonist replied wryly, “then you’ve been totally neglecting your instrument.”Natsuki stopped and stared at her junior. “Oh. My. God. You totally sound like Asuka-senpai.” The brown-haired euphonist rolled her eyes. “I do not sound like Asuka-senpai. What I sound like is the voice of reason. Which further establishes that I definitely don’t sound like Asuka-senpai.”Natsuki grinned. “The fact that you now ‘establish’ things simply establishes that you’ve definitely turned into an Asuka-kouhai. The old Oumae-chan would have just spluttered and run out of gas.”“Amazing. You managed to insult me and compliment Asuka-senpai with one line.”“You know me. I try to be efficient in all things.”They worked together in companionable silence, cleaning and brushing the various parts of the younger girl’s euphonium with practiced ease.“I’m surprised to find you home though,” Natsuki spoke after several minutes. “These days, when you’re not in school or with either band, you’re usually with Kousaka-san.”Oumae-chan shrugged. “Taki-sensei gave Reina another solo for our Christmas concert, so she’s had to rehearse more than usual.”Natsuki shook her head. “Sucks to be special, if you ask me. Though I don’t suppose Kousaka-san minds at all,” she added with a casual glance at the younger euphonist, “given how the request came from Taki-sensei.”“I don’t think anyone would mind,” Oumae-chan replied mildly as she swirled water around in her euphonium. “I mean, solos are a big deal for a musician.”“Sorry—I didn’t phrase that properly,” Natsuki responded, deciding to pursue the direct approach. “What I meant was: Kousaka-san’s probably over the moon with all these requests from Taki-sensei. He’s been focusing on her a lot this year.”“It was just a matter of time, really,” Oumae-chan shrugged as she emptied the water in her euphonium down the tub. “You know how single-minded Reina can be.”Natsuki thought back to that day years ago when Kousaka-san had confessed her love for their teacher in an auditorium packed with strangers—and then followed that confession with two more declarations in front of the entire trumpet section.“I think the entire band knows how single-minded Kousaka-san can be,” she replied wryly. After a slight pause, she ventured:“So, are you okay with how things are with Kousaka-san…?”The younger euphonist raised an eyebrow. “That’s unusually vague coming from you, Natsuki-senpai. With how what is exactly with Reina?”Natsuki made a few uncharacteristically ambiguous gestures. Interfering was Yuuko’s thing, not hers. As far as her friendships were concerned, she’d always preferred the strategy of being the silent and steady supporter.“With, um, how single-minded she is…”Her junior scrunched her forehead in confusion. “Well, it’s a good thing obviously. I mean, she made it into Interlochen’s Music Conservatory Program in her second year, managed to catch up with the rest of us in her final year, succee—““I meant her obsession with Taki-sensei!” Natsuki finally blurted out, suddenly regretting her own obsession with her girlfriend and how it had led her to this distinctly uncomfortable exchange. (What was it about trumpet players anyway that allowed them to wind euphonium players around their little fingers??)The younger euphonist blinked. “Well, it’s the same as it’s always been,” she replied slowly as she started oiling her valves. “I’m still rooting for her.”Natsuki’s jaw dropped. “Seriously??” Then she suddenly remembered herself and adopted a more casual tone. “I mean, I just find it strange that you’d be so supportive…especially with the age gap and…and…” She tried to find a word that would describe the…thing that had probably been going on between Oumae-chan and Kousaka-san for years and came up with zilch. “And…stuff,” she finished lamely.Her junior shrugged. “That doesn’t matter all that much these days and Reina’s always acted older than her age anyway.”  She paused as she began to carefully slide her valves back into their original positions. “I think the only real issue’s the fact that Reina’s still a minor—and that’s not going to be the case soon enough.”Natsuki stared at her incredulously. “You really are rooting for her, aren’t you??”Oumae-chan looked at her with an expression that revealed that she’d assumed it to be obvious. “Of course. I’m her best friend.”“Look,” Natsuki said after taking a deep breath, “part of being a best friend also means doing what’s good for the friend in question—”“And why wouldn’t he be good for her?” the younger euphonist countered matter-of-factly as she continued reassembling her instrument. “They’re both musical geniuses from musical families. They’re both intense, brooding, single-minded and brusque. They’d be the poster couple of the concert band world.”Natsuki rolled her eyes. “Sounds like a concert band version of Wuthering Heights, if you ask me. I get what you mean about birds of a feather and all that jazz, but there’s something to be said about opposites getting together too.”“Like you and Yuuko-senpai?” her junior replied wryly.Natsuki had the grace to blush. “You’re not as dense as I thought if you figured that out.”“It was hard NOT to figure it out after catching you both making out in the stairwell.”“You saw that??”“Reina and I both did, actually. It was the night of the Halloween party. Given the noises you were making, I thought that you’d pissed Yuuko-senpai off and that she was finally trying to kill you. It was a good thing Reina stopped me from interrupting.”“Good Lord…” Natsuki muttered, her face in her hands. “I thought we’d gotten away with it too…” She shook her head. “At any rate, if Kousaka-san did end up with Taki-sensei, where would that leave you?”Oumae-chan made an ambiguous gesture of her own. “Where I’ve always been: by her side.”Natsuki snorted. “Boyfriends and best friends don’t exactly mix. Besides…you’re no one’s sidekick, Oumae-chan. You’re more special than that.”The younger euphonist smiled wryly. “I’ve never been special. I’ve never had the raw talent of people like Reina, or Asuka-senpai, or Nozomi-senpai, or Mizore-senpai...” She paused for a few moments before continuing. “Not that I’m complaining though. If my parents had thought that I’d amount to much, they’d have kicked up a fuss over my plans to go to music college the way they did when my sister said she’d go to vocational college.”Natsuki looked at her, slightly appalled. “Is that…is that how you really see yourself??” She thought of how the geniuses that Oumae-chan had enumerated so nonchalantly had all been drawn to her at some point—and had relied on her when they wouldn’t rely on anyone else—and suddenly felt inexplicably angry. “How can you think that way when Nozomi-san and Mizore-san confided in you, when Asuka-senpai took you under her wing, when you’re the band’s current vice president and the brass section leader to boot—““Hey, hey, even sidekicks have their pride. And besides, it’s almost like a tradition to have a euphonist as the vice president.”As Natsuki stared at the younger girl, an understanding of sorts began to dawn. “At the very least, you do get that Tsukamoto-san likes you, right?”Her junior rolled her eyes. “Oh please. Don’t tell me you’re getting on that bandwagon too.”“Whoa,” Natsuki held her hands up. “Let me get this straight: You really, honestly believe that no one could fall for you?”The younger euphonist stuck her tongue out at Natsuki. “I wouldn’t go that far. I’d like to think that I’m charming in my own way.”Natsuki shook her head and muttered: “After all this time, you still don’t get it. But then again, that’s so like you.”“Say that again?” Oumae-chan asked.“It’s nothing,” Natsuki sighed. She finished wiping her junior’s mouthpiece with a towel before speaking again. “Seriously though,” she asked somberly, “what would you do if Kousaka-san did end up with Taki-sensei?”An unreadable expression descended on Oumae-chan’s face. In all the time that Natsuki had known the younger girl, it was the first time that she couldn’t actually tell what her junior was thinking. Her voice, however, was utterly composed:“Why, I’d congratulate her, of course. The way any best friend would.”~~~~~“So what’s the score?”Natsuki shook her head. “See, this is precisely why you couldn’t get any of those chicks to look at you. You’re all business. I come over to see you and instead of saying ‘Tadaima,’ you say, ‘So what’s the score?’ Why don’t we try this again from the to—“Yuuko shut her girlfriend up by yanking her down and pulling her into a long, open-mouthed kiss.“That good enough for you as a welcome greeting?” she asked sweetly as Natsuki stared at her in a daze.“I dunno,” Natsuki finally replied. “Why don’t we try it again and I’ll let you kno—“ She broke off on seeing the look on Yuuko’s face.“It was mind-blowing. Life-changing. Earth-shattering. Space-warping—““Shut up and behave or I’m never going to blow other things besides your mind.”Natsuki stared at her girlfriend for a moment before dropping to the ground in a solemn gesture of obeisance.Yuuko smirked. “That’s more like it. Though I have to say, you’ve really got your head in the gutter if it took that threat to keep you in line.”Natsuki looked up with a sly grin. “Well, I’d like to put my head into other things besides the gutter, if you catch my drif—”Yuuko planted a dainty foot squarely on the top of Natsuki’s head and clucked her tongue. “Patience is a virtue, my brown-haired hornblower.”Natsuki caught her foot around her ankle and smiled. “But why cultivate virtues,” she purred as she began to lick the arch of Yuuko’s foot, “when you can actually indulge in vice??”Yuuko felt a haze descend. “Idiot,” she breathed, her voice hitching as Natsuki began to wrap her lips around her big toe. “I said that for your own good, not mine.” And with that as a final warning, she slid off the sofa—and right on top of a startled Natsuki.A good half hour passed during which time all that could be heard was the occasional gasp, sigh and moan.By the time Yuuko was through, Natsuki was on her back panting.“That was definitely more than I bargained for,” Natsuki wheezed as she lay on the floor trying to catch her breath.“Pitiful,” Yuuko smirked as she gazed down at her winded girlfriend with her chin propped on her hand. “If you can’t even keep up with me for that long, then you’ve definitely been neglecting your instrument.”“Why,” Natsuki replied wryly, “does everyone keep telling me that??”“Because it’s true,” Yuuko pointed out. “You’ve hardly touched your euphonium in the last few weeks.”Natsuki threw her a sly grin. “I’d rather touch a few other things—“Yuuko kicked her in the shin. “Idiot. That kind of talk was what got you into trouble in the first place.”“’To err is human, but it feels divine’,” she quoted—before laughingly drawing her shins away from Yuuko’s impending kick.“That sounds like Asuka-senpai,” Yuuko said with a roll of her eyes. “It’s almost annoying how you and Oumae-san quote her every chance you get.”“I heard it from Asuka-senpai, but it’s not one of her lines,” Natsuki replied affably. “Besides, we can’t help quoting her—she’s our…eupho-mama. Though I think Oumae-chan’s imprinted on her much more than I have.”“Well, since we’re finally back on the subject of Oumae-san…what did you find out?”Natsuki rolled on her back and sighed. “Four things. First, Oumae-chan believes that Kousaka-san doesn’t look at her that way. Second, she believes that no one looks at her that way. Third, she thinks that Kousaka-san’s still in love with Taki-sensei. Fourth, she thinks that Kousaka-san and Taki-sensei would make a good couple.”“Is she an idiot??” Yuuko nearly bellowed. “Kousaka-san sticks to her like cat hair on velvet and she thinks Kousaka-san doesn’t look at her that way??”“To be fair to Oumae-chan,” Natsuki replied, “Kousaka-san’s always been clingy with her. Don’t you remember how they were in freshman year? Kousaka-san wouldn’t even talk to people—but she was always hugging Oumae-chan or fussing with her hair. As far as Oumae-chan’s concerned, Kousaka-san’s probably just being Kousaka-san.”“Well, fine,” Yuuko relented. “But it doesn’t matter if she doesn’t know how Kousaka-san feels as long as she knows how she feels.”“But that’s just it,” Natsuki replied slowly. “I think Oumae-chan’s running away from realizing how she feels. As Asuka-senpai once put it, ‘There are none so blind as those who will not see’.”Yuuko shook her head. “I totally don’t get it. I’d have—““Declared your love for the whole world to hear?” Natsuki finished for her with an affectionate grin. “We can’t all be spitfires like you and Kousaka-san, you know. Always so ready to proclaim your passions. Always so ready to take on the world. Some of us prefer to be the silent and steady supporting types.”Yuuko crossed her arms. “There’s a fine line between supporting and suffering—as I’m sure you’ll know.”Natsuki chuckled. “But I didn’t exactly suffer, you know…” she said softly. “I was happy to just be around you,” she added with a look that caused a spasm to go through Yuuko’s heart. “In fact, if you hadn’t said what you did that Halloween night, I don’t think I’d ever have found the courage to get my feelings across. That’s why I can’t blame Oumae-chan. It’s not such a bad consolation prize to be the best friend.”Yuuko sighed before crawling over to Natsuki and snuggling into the taller girl’s side. “Honestly,” she muttered, “you euphonists are such wusses. Even Kaori-senpai had to take the lead with Asuka-senpai.”Natsuki grinned. “All the better to wind us around your little fingers, my dear.”“Speaking of fingers,” Yuuko drawled as she began nibbling the lobe of Natsuki’s ear, “I wouldn’t mind winding…myself around yours.”“That kind of talk is going to land you in trouble,” Natsuki murmured as she began to push her girlfriend down.“Well, you know what they say,” Yuuko purred, “’to err is human’ and all that jazz—now make me feel divine.”And that was the last thing either of them said for a good long while.
        Notes:
          So yes. This is the chapter that explains Kumiko's obliviousness and why it isn't just a running gag. It's also the chapter that begins taking into account the events of those two terrible episodes towards the end of Season 2. Let the roller coaster ride begin in earnest! X-DP.S. The quote "To err is human, but it feels divine" is from the American actress Mae West while the quote "There are none so blind as those who will not see" is from the English writer John Heywood.
      Chapter 11: Dissonante
          Summary:
            In which Kumiko makes a move, Taki-sensei makes a move and Reina gets confused.
    Chapter Text
    DISSONANTE  adjective dis·so·nant  \-nənt\
 :  harmonically unresolved 
“That’s it for today. You’re all dismissed.”Reina breathed a sigh of relief. As much as she loved playing the trumpet, she’d just about had it with the round-the-clock practice.Plus she was late for her appointment with Kumiko.Kumiko…whom she’d barely seen in days outside of rehearsals.Kumiko…whom she found herself missing with an almost desperate intensity.As she packed her trumpet into its case, she glanced upwards and noticed the small group of girls clustered adoringly around Taki-sensei.A corner of Reina’s lips quirked up in amusement. Two years ago, she would have found one reason or another to send those girls scurrying away. But ever since she’d gotten back from America, the sight of Taki-sensei surrounded by potential rivals had never quite incited the same concern.She liked to think it was a sign of her maturity that she’d outgrown the fits of jealousy.Reina shoved the rest of her things into her bag and left the practice room with uncharacteristic haste. She nearly broke into a run when she glimpsed the familiar mop of wavy chestnut hair down the hallway.Her steps slowed several meters away though at the sight of her best friend surrounded by her own throng of admiring juniors.If anything, Reina enjoyed the fact that Kumiko had become popular during her time away from Japan. It had simply proved that her intuition that Kumiko was special had been unerringly precise—even if uncannily prescient.What she did not enjoy was how Kumiko’s admirers often overstepped their bounds. At the moment, one particularly besotted junior was pressing quite closely against her best friend and the sight of it irritated Reina immensely.Reina’s lips thinned.And at the precise moment that she began striding towards her quarry, Taki-sensei called out from the doorway of the practice room:“Kousaka-san, may I have a mom—““Just a second, Taki-sensei,” she interrupted, too intent on her target to even notice that she’d brushed her teacher off.“Kumiko,” Reina breathed as she approached the taller girl, “did I keep you waiting long?”The question was accompanied by a casual flip of her long black hair over one shoulder and a pointed glance at the girl who had her hands wrapped around Kumiko’s arm.Almost instinctively, the entire group took a step back away from Kumiko.Whatever annoyance Reina had been feeling melted under the warmth of Kumiko’s dazzling smile. “Not that long,” she replied as she waved at the smaller girl in greeting. “Besides, I really enjoyed listening to your solo from out here.”Reina knew it was low, and excessive, and unwarranted, but she couldn’t quite resist. “I wouldn’t mind giving you a private show,” she murmured—and felt an unseemly flush of gratification at the looks of scandalized envy on the younger musicians’ faces.As usual, the exact nature of the invitation went right over her best friend’s head.“Let’s get going then,” Kumiko replied cheerfully. She turned around to wave her juniors goodbye. “I’ll see you all tomorrow!”“Was that truly necessary?” Kumiko asked Reina when they were finally out of earshot.“What was?” Reina asked innocently though her breath hitched in her throat.“The hair flip,” Kumiko replied with amusement. “They’re star struck enough with you as it is without you having to inject more of your hotness into the mix.”It was so like Kumiko, Reina thought, to have misinterpreted her juniors’ reactions so completely.“It probably wasn’t necessary,” Reina finally replied, “but there are times in one’s life when the unnecessary is precisely what’s needed.” Then she suddenly remembered that she’d interrupted Taki-sensei in the middle of a request and colored.“Can we stop by the practice room briefly?” she asked Kumiko, and received a nod in reply.As expected, their teacher hadn’t been the slightest bit put off by her earlier rudeness.“It can wait until tomorrow, Kousaka-san,” Taki-sensei smiled, “I’ll see you after rehearsals then. But for now,” he added after a pause, “can you polish up on the final section of your second solo? I’d like to have that part nailed down this week.”“Yes, of course,” Reina replied automatically, though she felt her spirits deflate considerably at the thought. She’d been planning on doing nothing that afternoon except just hang out with Kumiko.You’ll figure it out, she told herself determinedly as she and Kumiko walked away. She couldn’t quite quash the mounting sense of anxiety though at the thought of everything else she had to do like homework and cram school. No, she hushed herself, stop worrying about it; you’ll get it all handled.As if the taller girl had sensed her dismay, Kumiko turned around and, with a heart-stopping smile, reached out and took Reina’s hand with their fingers entwined.The gesture nearly made Reina cry.They stayed that way for most of the commute to Reina’s house, Kumiko chatting affably about one random thing after another, while Reina sat in silence, acutely conscious of Kumiko’s fingers around her hand.What was it about Kumiko’s touch lately that disconcerted Reina as much as it reassured her? When and where had she begun feeling the odd tingle of anticipation side by side with the affection?When they were finally in her room, Kumiko surprised her by opening her trumpet case and arranging her music sheets on the stand next to her bed.“What’re you doing?” Reina asked in puzzlement.“You need to polish the final section of your second solo, don’t you?” Kumiko replied with an eyebrow raised.“But, but, we were supposed to just hang out this afternoon…” Reina protested.“We are hanging out,” Kumiko replied cheerfully. “This is the part where you give me a private show.”Reina stared helplessly at her best friend. No matter how many times it had happened over the years, she could never quite get used to how Kumiko could read her as easily and readily as the notes on a staff.“I won’t take long…” she began to reply by way of apology.Kumiko waved a hand dismissively. “Of course not. This is you we’re talking about after all.”Reina nodded.It didn’t take very long, however, before her usual struggle with the piece surfaced—its technical rigor inciting and flouting her aggressive need for mastery, her exasperation and frustration exacerbated by the knowledge that this was time she could have spent with—“Reina…”Reina started and stared at Kumiko where she lay curled on her side on Reina’s bed with her eyes closed.“Play for me,” the taller girl smiled, before closing her eyes again.And in that moment, Reina understood. Under the pressure and strain of the last several weeks, she’d completely forgotten that music wasn’t something to be dominated—it was something to be played.Played with passion and played with joy.And played for oneself and played for another.The remembrance centered her and grounded her and, after taking a long, deep breath, Reina began again.As the music began to weave its spell around her, she remembered Kumiko’s words to her from that long ago night. I play for myself….But I sound best when I play while thinking of you…It was as true for her as it was true for Kumiko, she realized, the depth and complexity of her feelings for her best friend transmuting themselves effortlessly into a sound as pure and as golden as Kumiko’s eyes…When the sound of the final notes had faded, Reina slowly lowered her trumpet—only to find that Kumiko had fallen asleep.She shook her head in amusement—then paused when a ray of light from the setting sun fell on Kumiko’s face, burnishing her auburn hair with copper hues.Reina stared, helplessly bewitched by the sweep of chestnut lashes against angular cheekbones. Setting her trumpet aside, she knelt by her bed—and slowly and gently used a finger to trace the contours of Kumiko’s cheek.It felt like a lifetime ago since that night when she’d first run her finger over the outline of Kumiko’s face like this.Back then, and perhaps even now, it had been such a strangely…intimate gesture…hardly something one did to a friend, much less to an acquaintance.But back then, and certainly more so now, it hadn’t felt the slightest bit inappropriate or misplaced—especially not since Kumiko had taken it with neither surprise nor resistance.In the same way that Kumiko had taken everything about Reina since then with neither surprise nor resistance…Her finger paused on Kumiko’s upper lip. Despite her best effort to restrain herself, she couldn’t resist the impulse to run the base of her thumb along the curve of that lip.It felt soft.Sensuous.Terrifyingly inviting.Reina shuddered—and it was likely the tremor of tentative flesh against unresisting skin that woke Kumiko up.“Urgh,” the taller girl grimaced as she rubbed her eyes. “I can’t believe I fell asleep!”Reina blinked as the spell dissipated. “I can’t believe it either,” she replied with mock reproach, “especially since it was my best performance ever.”The look of genuine disappointment on Kumiko’s face made Reina laugh. “Don’t worry,” she replied consolingly, “you’ll get lots of other private shows.”“I really am sorry though,” Kumiko apologized with a shake of her head.“Don’t be,” Reina smiled. “Your schedule’s been just as crazy as mine these last few weeks. You probably needed the rest.”“Speaking of shows and schedules,” Kumiko responded casually as she sat up on Reina’s bed, “would you happen to be…free on Christmas Eve?”Reina paused. “There’s just the usual dinner with my family but that’s about it. Did you have something in mind?”“Well…” Kumiko hedged with uncharacteristic shyness, “I was wondering if you’d like—that is, if you wouldn’t mind—I mean if you don’t have other plans—not that I’m saying that you don’t—even if you already said that you did—“ She broke off, took a deep breath and tried again. “What I’m trying to say is: Would you like to have dinner with me on Christmas Eve at the Blues Locker??”Reina’s eyes widened. The Blues Locker just happened to be the most exclusive jazz club in the city.And a renowned date place amongst musicians of some sophistication.And the place where her own father had proposed to her mother—a story she was sure her father had regaled Kumiko with on some random evening on one of the many evenings her best friend had spent with her family.Reina blushed. “I’m sorry to have sprung it on you so suddenly,” Kumiko carried on nervously, looking everywhere else but at Reina, “I just wasn’t very sure if I could nail the reservation, what with it being Christmas Eve and all, so I had to wait until now and I really, totally would get it if you can’t go—”“I’d love to go,” Reina declared emphatically, looking everywhere else but at Kumiko. “I wouldn’t miss it for anything.”Whichever way one looked at it, it was a date. Though why this should…fluster her so much was beyond her, when she and Kumiko had had countless dates over the years.A nervous silence settled between them then, until Kumiko broke it with a small cheer accompanied by a fist pump.“How did you…do it?” Reina asked, still having difficulty looking Kumiko in the eye. She knew she could keep the butterflies in her stomach at bay if she could just keep the ensuing exchange casual and easy—the way it had always been.“Do what?” Kumiko replied innocently.“Get a reservation in the Blues Locker,” Reina rolled her eyes as she sat down on the edge of her bed close to where Kumiko had lain. “I mean, you’re awkward. And clumsy. And tactless. How’d you manage to get a reservation at the most exclusive jazz club in the city on Christmas Eve of all days??”Kumiko grinned wickedly. “I’d like to think that I’m charming in my own way.”Reina’s eyes narrowed. “It wasn’t through Asuka-senpai was it?”“Hell no!” Kumiko shook her head emphatically. “She would have stolen the reservation from me.” She paused as a sudden thought made a look of panic flash across her features. “She still might—so don’t say anything.”“Trust me,” Reina replied with the slightest hint of irony in her voice. “I have no intention of risking anything of mine with Asuka-senpai.”“Well, now that that’s sorted out and you’re done with practice,” Kumiko replied as she scooted closer to Reina and lay her head down on Reina’s lap, “how do you wanna hang out?”“I think we’re off to a pretty good start actually,” Reina replied innocently as she ran her fingers through Kumiko’s messy locks. “After all, you’ve already got your head between my legs.”They spent the next fifteen minutes staunching the bleeding in Kumiko’s nose.~~~~~“Taki-sensei, did you want to speak with me?”Reina waited respectfully as her teacher removed his ear plugs and swivelled around in his chair to look at her.“Ah, Kousaka-san, thank you for stopping by.” He paused and, for the first time since Reina had known him, looked uncharacteristically hesitant. He smiled and finally spoke again. “I just wanted you to know that your parents invited me to dinner at your house on Christmas Eve. For some reason, your mother wanted me to be the one to tell you.”Reina froze.Of course, a small part of her said. Your mother’s known you’ve been crushing on Taki-sensei your whole life and it’s just so...like her to be supportive in this way…The larger part of her though was trying to grapple with the fact that despite her ability to accomplish a good many difficult things, being at two places at the same time was quite likely beyond her gifts.“And,” Taki-sensei continued, “if you don’t have plans after, your parents suggested that we all go to see the aurora display at the Rurikei Onsen Pote Pote Park. I’ve heard good things about the show myself and it seems like a lovely way to spend the evening.”Reina couldn’t decide whether she wanted to laugh or to cry and settled for nodding dumbly instead.“That’s really just it,” her teacher chuckled, “sorry if I made it sound particularly urgent yesterday.”“It’s not a problem at all,” Reina replied automatically, still in a daze.“Oh, and Kousaka-san,” Taki-sensei called out one more time as she was about to leave. “You’ve done exceptionally well this year. Ever since you got back from America actually. I just wanted you to know that.”Reina nodded. “Thank you, Taki-sensei,” she replied quietly. “That means a lot to me, coming from you.”And it did mean a lot, Reina thought as she walked away. More than Taki-sensei probably realized, given how Reina had spent practically two thirds of her life yearning for his acknowledgment and his approval.But the thing was, the thing was—For some entirely strange and utterly unfathomable reason, it meant so much, much…less than she’d expected.And she had no idea—absolutely none at all—about what she was going to do with regard to Christmas Eve.
      Chapter 12: Caesura
          Summary:
            In which Reina remains unsure and Kumiko makes a choice.
    Chapter Text
    CAESURA
    noun cae·su·ra  \si-ˈzyu̇r-ə, -ˈzhu̇r-\
 : a complete break in sound, often abrupt 
“Kumiko-chaaan! Wait up!”Kumiko turned around and waited as her two friends scurried over to where she stood.“Heading home?” Hazuki-chan asked, face slightly red from her exertions and the cold.Kumiko shook her head. “Waiting for Reina, actually.”“Ah…” Hazuki-chan nodded sympathetically. “Taki-sensei’s been working her really hard lately. I’ve barely seen her outside rehearsals this month.”“It’s actually a good thing, Hazuki-chan,” Midori-chan chided her best friend gently. “Taki-sensei wouldn’t push Kousaka-san this hard if she didn’t have that much potential.”The tuba player tittered. “Says she who’s been pushed hard as well. Fishing for compliments, Midori-chan?”The tiny girl colored. “That’s not what I meant at all! You’re mean, Hazuki-chan.”“There, there,” Hazuki-chan chuckled as she patted the smaller girl’s head. “I was just kidding.” She turned back to Kumiko.”Want us to wait for you and Kousaka-san?”Kumiko shook her head. “There’s no telling when she’ll be done, so you guys go ahead. Thanks for asking though.”As she watched her friends walk away, Kumiko sighed and settled down onto a bench. December had started off on a high note—what with Reina accepting her invitation to Christmas Eve dinner and all—but shortly after they’d last hung out, her best friend had become evasive and preoccupied.It almost felt like that time two years ago when Reina had avoided her. And now, just like then, Reina had texted her about talking things over at Mt. Daikichi.Well, whatever it was that was troubling Reina, Kumiko was pretty sure it could be fixed by a night at the Blues Locker.She’d told Reina when she’d invited her that she’d wrangled their seats through sheer charm—but that claim was true only if sheer charm was what you called a bizarre combination of ignorance, audacity and luck.It had actually happened weeks ago, after a particularly stellar performance with the jazz band. She’d wandered off to the club’s balcony to escape Asuka-senpai’s persistent efforts to raise her alcohol tolerance—only to find that she’d intruded upon an elderly gentleman smoking a cigar.“Oh, um, I’m sorry. I didn’t know that this balcony was, er, occupied.”The older man had chuckled. “It’s a balcony, my dear, not a lavatory stall. Feel free to occupy it with me. Unless of course you object to cigar smoke.”“Ah, well, if I stand waaay over here, I’m sure it won’t bother me. Besides, to each their own probably applies to vice as it does to everything else.” She’d paused before waving her hands wildly. “Not that cigar smoking is a vice! I mean, it probably is. But at least it’s, um, cultured…”She’d trailed off. She’d managed to put her foot in her mouth at least three times in the last three minutes and decided that silence was likely the best policy.The gentleman had surprised her by laughing heartily. “You’re refreshingly…candid, my dear. With whom do I have the pleasure of speaking?”“I’m Oumae Kumiko,” Kumiko had replied, resisting the sudden urge to curtsey in the face of such old world grace.“Pleased to meet you, Oumae-san,” the older man had replied as he’d held out his hand. “My name’s Watanabe Shinichi.” As she’d drawn closer, the gentleman’s eyes had lit up in recognition. “Ahh…you were one of the two young euphonists from this evening’s performance! That was exceptionally well done.”“Um, thank you,” Kumiko had colored as she’d taken the man’s hand. “I take it you’re a…jazz fan?”Watanabe-san had smiled. “Enough of a fan to have a club of my own. You may have heard of it. It’s called the Blues Locker.”  Kumiko’s brow had furrowed. “The Blues Locker…For some reason, it sounds awfully familiar…”The older man had looked at her in amusement. “You may have heard of it from someone. We’re rather…well-known in jazz circles.”Kumiko had frowned. After a moment, it had hit her. “My best friend’s dad proposed to her mom in your club!”Watanabe-san had chuckled. “Well, we are known for that, among other things. You should drop by when you get the chance.”Kumiko had tried imagining herself in such a scene of elegant sophistication and found the resulting image disconcerting—if not downright disturbing. “Um, I’m not sure if it’d be a…match…I mean, I’m kinda young…” She paused before waving her hands wildly. “Not that I’m saying that you’re old! I mean, you’re old-er and there’s probably a difference in tastes and all that…jazz…”She’d decided then that it was probably best if she shut up.The older man had laughed again. “You’re a strange one, Oumae-san, though I mean that in the best possible way. I think you’d be surprised at what you’d find in my club. We have a number of fairly young talents lined up next month, actually. There’s Kobayashi Kaori, Matsunaga Takashi, Kuroda Takuya—““Kuroda Takuya???” Kumiko had yelped. She’d been vaguely aware that she was being rude, but hadn’t been able to help herself. “You’re going to be featuring Kuroda Takuya?? I’d kill for a seat to that show!”Watanabe-san had smiled. “It’s unusual for a euphonist to be a trumpet fan. You’re even stranger than I thought, Oumae-san.”Kumiko had blinked rapidly before realization had set in. “Oh no, not me! I mean, I do admire his work, but it’s my best friend who’s a hardcore fan.”Watanabe-san had raised an eyebrow. “You’d rather get a seat for someone she’d like over someone you’d like? I mean, I’ve got Shoichiro Hokazono lined up in January…”“You’re featuring Shoichiro Hokazono too…?” Kumiko had whispered in a daze. She couldn’t count the number of times she’d listened to the virtuoso euphonist’s CDs over the years. To get to watch the man up close in real life…Kumiko had shaken her head.“Shoichiro Hokazono may be God…” she’d spoken slowly, “but I’ve never been religious anyway.” She’d taken a deep breath and looked the elderly gentleman in the eye. “Watanabe-san, is there anything at all that I can do to get a seat for one of your Kuroda Takuya shows?”“You want just one seat?”Kumiko had paused, unsure of where the older man was heading with this particular train of thought. “Erm…my best friend is a petite girl, Watanabe-san…I’m pretty sure she needs just one seat.”The older man had laughed. “Oh dear. What I meant was: Wouldn’t she want to watch the show with you?”Kumiko’s jaw had dropped. “You’d let me have two seats???”Watanabe-san’s eyes had twinkled. “I’m pretty sure I can squeeze in two seats for two petite girls.”A sound between a burble and a squeak had escaped Kumiko’s throat. She couldn’t believe her luck. “I don’t know how to thank you, Watanabe-san…I mean, paying you is probably the best way of thanking you. Speaking of which…how do I pay you? I’m pretty sure your club doesn’t take…installments…and probably not the kind that lasts as long as a mortgage, but, um, I’m not exactly a member of the workforce yet and a Kuroda Takuya show probably isn’t cheap…”The older man had shaken his head in amusement. “How does a young girl like you even know anything about installments, mortgages and being a member of the workforce??”Kumiko had replied with utter seriousness. “I have an older sister who’s putting herself through vocational college. Trust me, I could write a book on installments, mortgages and being a member of the workforce.”Watanabe-san had chuckled. “I think you’ve entertained me enough to deserve a couple of free tickets, Oumae-san. Consider these as on the house.”Kumiko had stood firm. “I can’t not pay you, Watanabe-san. It’s not right.”The gentleman had paused and stared at her thoughtfully. After a few moments, he’d spoken. “Tell you what, my manager’s been pestering me to do something that’ll attract a much younger crowd. How about you get that band of yours to play at my club for one night?”“How about making that two nights—one for each seat?” Kumiko had countered.“Sounds good,” Watanabe-san had smiled. “Shall we shake on it?”Kumiko had nodded. As she’d taken the older man’s hand, a sudden bolt of inspiration had hit her.“Watanabe-san…” she’d ventured. “If I can get my band to play at your club for three nights, may I get those two seats on Christmas Eve?”The older gentleman had paused. “I’ll need to talk to my manager about that, so I can’t guarantee that date just yet. But I’ll ask and get back to you as soon as I can,” he’d added with a wink.She’d walked back to the band in a daze, and it was only when she realized that she’d committed the entire band to three performances without their permission that she’d come crashing back to earth.“Asuka-senpai…” she’d ventured hesitantly as they’d waited for a taxi by the curb. “You know that thing you said waaay back about how we should get as much exposure as we could? Well, I, uh, sort of got us a gig for three performances…and I think we can even choose the dates and stuff…so I hope you don’t mind if I kinda promised the whole band already…?”“Oumae-chan,” her senior had replied mildly as she’d scanned the street for a cab, “given my rather photographic memory, I can perfectly recall what I said about garnering more exposure for the band. If, however, what you’ve committed us to is anything remotely similar to the 20th high school reunion that Tsukamoto-san engaged us for on his father’s behalf, not even Kaori will be able to save you from a Hunger Games weekend.”“It’s for the Blues Locker!” Kumiko had exclaimed wildly. “I’m pretty sure that it’s a decent place! I mean, Reina’s dad and mom go there—““Hang on,” Asuka-senpai had stopped and turned towards Kumiko. “You. Got. Us. Three bookings. At the Blues Locker??”Kumiko hadn’t been able to decipher the gleam in her senpai’s eyes. “Erm, yes?” she’d squeaked.“Oumae-san,” Kaori-senpai had interrupted gently, “the Blues Locker just happens to be the most exclusive jazz club in the city. It usually takes years before a band gets to play in it. Are you sure you didn’t mistake the name of the club for something else?”“Really?” Kumiko’s brow furrowed. “I just thought it was famous for—“ She stopped abruptly when she finally remembered the rest of Reina’s dad’s story. “Oh. Oh my God. It’s that Blues Locker—”She hadn’t had the time to process the rest of the thought though given that Asuka-senpai had suddenly grabbed her collar in a death grip.“Oumae-chan,” her senior had breathed in a singsong voice, “with whom did you speak, pray tell?”“Um, he said his name was Watanabe Shinichi—“ She’d nearly stumbled when Asuka-senpai had let go of her abruptly and begun cackling wildly.“Oumae-chan,” the older woman had crowed, “I have no idea how you did it, but you’ve just scored us the gig of the decade!” Asuka-senpai had looked at Kaori-senpai then and crossed her arms smugly. “Given that she managed to pull this off in spite of being awkward, clumsy and tactless, you have to admit that I’ve trained her rather well, haven’t I?”Kaori-senpai rolled her eyes. “In tactlessness maybe. From what I can tell though, Oumae-san got this entirely on her own.”To Kumiko’s relief, the entire band had been much too excited about the prospect of performing at the Blues Locker to question her about how she’d obtained the engagement. A week later, Watanabe-san had phoned her to tell her that, yes, she could have her seats on Christmas Eve, and the day right after, she’d asked Reina to come with her and Reina had said yes.All in all, it should have been a superlative month.Except that things had been off with Reina ever since.As if thinking of her were enough to conjure her presence, a familiar voice rang through the wintry air:“Kumiko! I’m sorry I’m late…”Kumiko shook her head and smiled. “That used to be my line, you know.”Reina sighed, not quite looking her in the eye. “And I’d rather you kept it. I don’t particularly enjoy saying it.”“Come on,” Kumiko tugged at her best friend’s arm gently, wanting to distract her from her clearly morose thoughts. “It’s a beautiful day for walking up the mountain.”She stopped in surprise when Reina reached for her hand and twined their fingers together tightly. They stayed that way for most of the commute to Mt. Daikichi, Kumiko chatting affably about one random thing after another while Reina sat in silence.It was only when they were finally at their usual spot that Reina spoke again.“Kumiko…” she started, before stopping abruptly and turning away in dismay.Kumiko waited patiently.“Kumiko,” Reina tried again, “there’s something I need to tell you…”After her best friend broke off the second time, Kumiko spoke gently.“Just tell me, Reina. It’ll be okay.”She watched as Reina took a deep breath.“It’s…It’s Taki-sensei…The day after you asked me to go with you to the Blues Locker, he told me that he’s coming to my house for dinner on Christmas Eve.”And at that moment, Kumiko understood.Of course, a small part of her said. She’s been crushing on Taki-sensei her whole life and it’s just so…like her to not want to break her promise to you either…“Is that all?” Kumiko heard herself saying from somewhere far away. “You should go, silly,” was all she added in reply. For she knew with a conviction that only ever applied to her intuitions about Reina that to say anything else would only upset the dark-haired girl’s fragile equanimity.“What???”“You should go,” Kumiko repeated, shoving her hands deep into her pockets. “It’s our last year in Kitauji—and he’s the reason you’re here to begin with.”“But…But we’ve already made plans…” Reina countered.Kumiko waved a hand airily. “I’ll always be around. The Blue Locker will always be around. Christmas will always be around. But this might be your last chance with Taki-sensei. And if there’s one thing I’ve learned time and again all these years, it’s not to leave any regrets.”“Kumiko…” Reina repeated, her voice beseeching. She stepped towards Kumiko—and despite herself, Kumiko actually took a step back. “I’ve made enough of a fool of myself trying not to leave any regrets,” Reina said carefully from where she stood. “And he made his answer quite clear all those years ago.”Kumiko shook her head and smiled. She could still save it—save whatever this…thing was between her and her best friend—for as long as she could keep the ensuing exchange casual and easy—the way it had always been.“It’s not like you to care how you look—and not like you to give up so easily either. It’s been two years and things change. Taki-sensei’s just a…man. And you’re an outrageously talented and stunningly beautiful girl. Who could possibly resist you?”She watched as Reina’s hands balled into fists. “Why are you…Why are you so…insistent on this??”Kumiko looked at her with an expression that revealed that she’d assumed it to be obvious. “I told you I’d root for you remember?” She chuckled as she gazed off into the distance. “Do you realize that the one and only time we ever fought was because of Taki-sensei? You were so…mad at me for not telling you about his wife…” She reached out and gripped the railing before looking back at Reina with a hint of a smile. “This was where we made up over it too.”“Kumiko…” the sudden quaver in the normally steady voice and the tell-tale glimmer in over-bright eyes broke through the haze and, with the surety of an instinct that applied to Reina and Reina alone, Kumiko pushed away from the edge and began walking down the slope.“We should get going,” Kumiko spoke before her best friend could say anything else. “It’s getting really cold.”They spent the rest of the walk down the mountain in silence.~~~~~Kumiko leaned her head against the train window and sighed. Hearing that Reina had actually managed to land a date—of sorts—with Taki-sensei had been surprisingly…draining.But Reina had probably been drained too. Knowing her best friend, Kumiko suspected that Reina had agonized for days over the conflict.Which was why she’d put her foot down and settled things for the both of them. Reina had waited for this chance with her crush for far too long and Kumiko didn’t want it ruined by preoccupations of guilt.Of course, knowing that she’d done the right thing didn’t necessarily spare her from feeling some…degree of disappointment. She’d actually put some thought into what she’d wear; and had looked forward to seeing what Reina would wear; and had guessed at how Reina would react when she found out that her favorite trumpeter was playing; and had speculated on what Reina would order for dinner; and had considered whether they ought to go to Mt. Daikichi afterwards; and had wondered about how the stars would look like that night, and how Reina would look like underneath the starlight, and how Reina would feel in her arms if she were to draw her close—She didn’t know how long she’d been lost in her thoughts before she noticed the streak of wetness on her cheeks.She brought a hand to her face in surprise and looked blankly at the moisture on her fingers—and even more blankly when her fingers began to blur, when her hand began to blur, when the world itself began to blur—“Stop it!” Kumiko muttered angrily to herself as she rubbed her eyes furiously with the backs of her hands. Her distress escalated as the tears began to fall faster and as the ache in her chest—hitherto unnoticed— began to creep upwards with a vise-like grip towards her throat.It had been like this too, all those years ago, when Mamiko had left, when she’d been so sure that her sister’s departure was going to be of little consequence—and she’d ended up sobbing on the train, stricken by the intensity of an unexpected grief.Except this one felt so, so much worse.And she didn’t know why. She’d meant what she’d said to Reina earlier: that there would always be other chances. So why was she so…upset?? And where was this terrible, tearing sensation in her chest coming from??A mocking voice, long suppressed, whispered in her ear: Why are you so surprised? Of course she wouldn’t choose you…“Stop it!” Kumiko ground out through gritted teeth, oblivious to the stares of concern from the other passengers on the train. Of course Reina wouldn’t choose her. She’d never been on the list of options and she’d never even thought about being on the list of options…The mocking voice snickered. That’s right. You need to be special to be with someone special… “Stop it…” Kumiko groaned, burying her face in her hands. “Just…stop it…” she whispered as she sank down to the floor and let the hurt take over.Outside the train, a gentle snow began to fall.
      Chapter 13: Antifona
          Summary:
            In which Mamiko gets concerned, Asuka gets annoyed and Shuuichi gets involved.
    Chapter Text
    ANTIFONA
    noun an·ti·phon \ˈan-tə-fən, -ˌfän\
 : a liturgical or other composition consisting of choral responses, sometimes between two choirs 
“Want to talk about it?”Mamiko leaned against the doorway of her younger sister’s bedroom and watched the range of emotions that flickered across Kumiko’s face.So much had changed in the two years since she’d left: Kumiko, Mamiko herself—and the dynamics between them both.There was a time when Kumiko’s sullen silences would have angered her, when it would have provoked an answering silence of Mamiko’s own—and when the silence would have finally ended in an eruption of scathing remarks accompanied by slamming doors.But Mamiko had long since learned that any resentment that she tended to feel against her younger sister was typically a projection of self-directed rage. After she’d left home to pursue what she truly wanted, much of that anger had disappeared and been gradually replaced by a hard-won self-respect. She’d discovered then that one could do what one truly desired—even in the face of parental opposition. It simply required an enormous amount of courage, diligence, patience and perseverance.In the light of that discovery, her view of Kumiko had shifted dramatically. Just like her, her younger sister was struggling for what she wanted—but without the encumbrances of self-entitlement or self-pity. And, as a result of her own efforts, Kumiko had transformed. Mamiko had come home one day and been astonished to discover—in place of her little sister—a strikingly attractive and surprisingly accomplished young woman.She’d known in that moment that her own transformation was complete when the sight of Kumiko had incited nothing but a profound sense of affection and pride.Today though, and for the last few days in fact, the Kumiko she’d found at home had been a shocking throwback to the diffident, disinterested and distant little girl from three years ago.And it bothered Mamiko immensely. As the minutes passed and Kumiko remained silent, Mamiko felt a stab of regret.Perhaps it would take a few more years before the damage to their relationship could be fully repaired.Careful to leave out any trace of hurt in her voice, Mamiko left one last invitation before turning around to leave. “I’ll be here for a few more days if you feel like talking about it at some point, okay?”She’d nearly closed the door when she heard the faint reply.“…s’not that I don’t want to tell you…” she heard Kumiko mumble. “It’s just that it’s kinda stupid…”Mamiko smiled and sat down on her younger sister’s bed.“It can’t be that stupid if it’s bothering you this much.”She watched as Kumiko fidgeted with the small trumpet plushie that she carried around everywhere these days. “I had this…thing planned with Reina on Christmas Eve. I got us two seats at the Blues Locker to watch her favorite trumpeter. But then…something came up and we had to cancel.”Mamiko’s eyes widened. “You. Managed. To get two seats. To the Blues Locker. On Christmas Eve??”Kumiko looked at her wryly. “Now why does everyone think that’s such a big deal??”Mamiko chuckled. Kumiko’s obliviousness, at least, had never changed. “Never mind that. What could have possibly come up that would make Reina give up a night at the Blues Locker??”Kumiko hesitated. “This guy she’s been crushing on for a really, really long time got invited to her house for Christmas Eve dinner and so I called our thing off.”Mamiko paused, then nodded her head slowly. “You’re a really good friend, you know that?” She smiled gently at her younger sister before reaching over to pat her on the head. “I’d be disappointed too if I were in your shoes. But I think you did the right thing.”Even as she said the words though, Mamiko remained bewildered. Kumiko’s morose behavior the last few days hinted at far more than mere disappointment. She thought deeply for a few more moments before an idea occurred to her.“Could it be that…you’re jealous?”Kumiko stared at her slack-jawed. “Jealous?? Why would I be jealous??”Mamiko hesitated. She’d seen this sort of thing happen with her friends in high school and it was always a delicate matter. “You and Reina-san are really close. You’ve done practically everything together these last few years. Maybe you’re…upset that she’s about to do something on her own that doesn’t involve you.”“Hang on,” Kumiko held up a hand and shook her head. “Let me get this straight: You think I could be jealous of Reina??”Mamiko nodded. “Your best friend might be getting a boyfriend. I know that we’re all conditioned to think that we should be happy when our friends get what they want, but, well, it’s perfectly understandable for you to get upset…”Kumiko chewed her lip uncertainly. “I don’t know…I mean I get what you’re trying to say, but it doesn’t exactly feel right…”Mamiko smiled. In so many ways, Kumiko was still just a child. “Well, at any rate, give yourself some time to get over it. But don’t take too long. If we’re not careful, funks tend to develop a life of their own. Take it from me,” she added with a self-deprecating chuckle.Kumiko gave her a small smile. “Thanks, Onee-chan. I appreciate it.”Mamiko waved off her sister’s gratitude with a half-embarrassed gesture. She was about to leave when a bolt of inspiration hit her. “Tell you what? Since you’re free that evening, let’s have a Christmas Eve dinner of our own with Mom and Dad. Maybe your Onee-chan will even have a surprise for you that night,” she added with a wink.Kumiko’s smile was a little wider this time. “Yeah. That sounds like fun.”Mamiko grinned.Maybe, just maybe, she could still make up for all the years that she’d failed to be a big sister to Kumiko.And what she had in mind would make for a perfect start.~~~~~“Coooming!” Asuka sang from her bedroom as the doorbell chimed for the fourth time under just a minute.Only two people knew about where she lived now apart from herself and Kaori, and it was unlikely that Haruka would be this pressingly…impatient.Which could only mean that the person calling on her was—“Oumae-chan, good morning,” Asuka grinned, done with the greeting before she’d even seen who was at the door. “While I fully understand your desire to see me so early in the day, there’s really no need to announce it to the entire floor—“  “Take it,” the younger girl muttered, shoving an envelope in Asuka’s face. “Take it before you say something that’s going to make me change my mind—““Oh, how utterly bold,” Asuka tittered as she gracefully withdrew the envelope from Kumiko’s hands. “To proposition me at the flat I share with my girlfriend, while my girlfriend is actually out—““Okay, that did it,” the brown-haired euphonist snapped before snatching the envelope right back. “I’ve changed my mind.”“Oh, don’t be such an Oumae-chan, Oumae-chan,” Asuka breezed as she grabbed the younger girl by the collar with one hand while using the other to retrieve the envelope. “You’re temper today’s shorter than a Taki-sensei pre-competition speech.” Then before the brown-haired euphonist could run off, Asuka shut the door and herded her junior into the living room.“Now,” Asuka replied after she’d tucked herself into her favorite armchair, “what’s this about?” She waved the envelope in the air for emphasis.“It’s, um, your birthday present. And Kaori-senpai’s Christmas present. Since your birthday and, uh, Christmas fall on the same day.”Asuka’s eyebrow shot up. With a fluid gesture, she opened the envelope—and then stared in mild shock at its contents.“I have to say, Oumae-chan, you never fail to surprise me. How on earth did you manage to get two seats to a Kuroda Takuya show at the Blues Locker on Christmas Eve???”She watched as the younger girl chuckled wearily. “I’m tempted to say I used my charm, but no one ever quite believes me.”Asuka stared at her protégé before speaking slowly. “You know, I’m not looking this gift horse in the mouth, but why do I get the sense that these tickets weren’t supposed to be presents and the fact that they’re presents now is related to the funk you’ve been in for the last few days?”  Her junior gazed at her shoelaces glumly. “I was supposed to go with Reina, but I decided to cancel it so she could have dinner with Taki-sensei.”Asuka paused. There was a coil of something unfamiliar snaking through her belly and it took her a moment to realize that it was anger.She spoke the next words very slowly. “You canceled your date with Kousaka-san at the Blues Locker so she could have a date with Taki-sensei??”“Yes.”Asuka shut her eyes. “Oh my God, Oumae-chan. I can’t believe you just pulled an Oumae-chan. And I do NOT mean that as a compliment.”“Look, if you don’t want them—““Of course I want them!” Asuka replied with the slightest hint of annoyance. “Kaori adores Kuroda Takuya. But that’s not my point.”“Then what is your point??”Asuka sighed. “You know that thing you used to do whenever you’d get scared of being hurt? Well, you’re doing it again.”“Asuka-senpai, there are days when you out-Yoda Yoda himself. I have no idea what you’re talking about.”Asuka stared at her junior over the rim of her glasses. It was on the tip of her tongue: all the things that she wanted to tell Oumae-chan again point blank—in the same scornful way that had reduced the younger girl to tears in that confrontation they’d had all those years back.But she wasn’t the girl she was back then. And neither was Oumae-chan.“Then I hope you figure it out soon, my Padawan, because for once, I’m not even trying to out-Yoda Yoda himself. Now,” she paused and looked at her junior, “are you really sure you want me to have these tickets?”The younger girl looked at her directly. “I’m really sure.” She looked away before adding softly, “It’d make me feel much better, actually.”Asuka softened. “In that case, I accept. With much gratitude.”The brown-haired euphonist nodded before getting up to leave.“Oumae-chan?” Asuka called out before the younger girl could shut the door. “I would have believed you, you know. If you’d told me that you used your charm to get these tickets.”Asuka didn’t miss the slightly pained look that flashed across Oumae-chan’s face. “That would make you the only one, Asuka-senpai.”Asuka sighed.“The problem’s not that no one finds you charming, Oumae-chan,” she muttered to herself after Kumiko had left. “The problem is that you don’t believe it yourself.”As she sat and stared at the tickets, an idea began to form in her head. “Well, they do say that no good deed goes unpunished,” she murmured. “So I guess you’re getting punished, Oumae-chan.”~~~~~“That’s it for today. You’re all dismissed.”Shuuichi breathed a sigh of relief. As much as he enjoyed playing the trombone, he’d just about had it with the round-the-clock practice.“Oh, Tsukamoto-san and Oumae-chan? I’d like to see you both before you go.”Shuuichi caught the look of surprise on Kumiko’s face. It wasn’t often that their band leader asked one or two of them to stay after rehearsals.“Yes, Asuka-senpai?” Kumiko asked when the both of them had assembled in front of their black-haired senior.“I know it’s late, so I won’t beat around the bush. I’d like you both to perform a euphonium and trombone duet for our first performance at the Blues Locker.”Shuuichi’s jaw dropped. “A duet??” he squeaked. “That basically means I play a solo, and Oumae-san plays a solo, but our solos are played together right??”“Not the most elegant description, Tsukamoto-san, but serviceable enough for our purposes. Yes, that’s what I’m asking you both to do.”“But that performance is just a little over two weeks away, Asuka-senpai!” Kumiko objected, sounding just the slightest bit panicky.Shuuichi couldn’t blame her. He felt the same way she did.Their senpai grinned devilishly before handing them the piece. “You shouldn’t be wasting any time then. Practice. A lot. Together. And the sooner you start, the better.”Then with a wink and a wave, their band leader went off.Shuuichi was almost afraid to look at Kumiko. He didn’t want to catch the look of probable apprehension on her face at having to perform with him.“Why don’t we study this tonight and take a stab at practicing the piece tomorrow?”He looked up in surprise. “I thought you were worried about this,” he replied after a moment.Kumiko shrugged. “I am worried, but worrying’s not going to help either of us or the band. Besides,” she added with a wry grin, “isn’t this a chance any musician would grab?”Shuuichi found himself grinning back. “You’re right. I’ll see you tomorrow then.”He was just about to leave the building when a voice accosted him in the darkness. “You’re not going to get many more chances better than this, you know.”From the gleam in Tanaka-senpai’s eyes, Shuuichi knew that the band leader wasn’t referring to the duet. And it irked him immensely that whatever…chance he had been given had to have come from her of all people.“It’s not like you to interfere, Tanaka-senpai,” he replied coldly, his annoyance overriding his usual politeness.“And it’s not like you to reveal your dislike of me so openly either,” his senior replied with that faintly mocking air that he detested so much.“Is there anything else, Tanaka-senpai?” he asked stiffly, embarrassed at having been confronted so directly.“Just two things, really. First: You’re entitled to continue thinking of me the way you do. Because I am not doing this for you. Second: Make damn sure that that duet’s a performance to be remembered. If there’s anything about the piece that you don’t get, ask me.”Shuuichi nodded slowly.“Good,” the band leader replied with a smirk and a final wave.He really, really couldn’t figure that woman out. But he knew a chance when he saw one and he wasn’t looking this gift horse in the mouth.After all, he only had so many months left before graduation—only so many months left to finally tell Kumiko how much he seriously and desperately liked her.Then his phone rang—and the name on the caller ID derailed the rest of his train of thought. Shuuichi answered the call hurriedly:“Yes, Mamiko-san??”
      Chapter 14: Malinconico
          Summary:
            In which Reina makes a decision and Asuka’s interference yields fruit.
    Chapter Text
    MALINCONICO
    noun mal·in·co·ni·co  \ˈma-lin-cò-ni-co\
 : melancholic; pensive; dejected 
“Kousaka-saaan! Wait up!”Reina turned around and waited as Kumiko’s two friends scurried over to where she stood.“Heading home?” Midori-san asked, face slightly red from her exertions and the cold.Reina shook her head. “Waiting for Kumiko, actually.”“Oh?” Midori-san scrunched her forehead in consternation. “Kumiko-chan left a while back. I saw her head off with Tsukamoto-san.”“She left with Tsukamoto-san?” Reina blinked.“Yeah, they’ve been leaving school together the last couple of days actually,” Hazuki-san added, her face carefully devoid of expression. “Took him long enough to get his act together,” she snorted under her breath.“The last couple of days..?” Reina echoed slowly, her stomach suddenly roiling with dread and unease.“You didn’t know about it?” Midori-san asked, perplexity etched on her features.“I’m…She…” Reina paused as the ache that had been in her chest for days began to creep upwards with a vise-like grip towards her throat. “We’ve been really busy, that’s all.”“That’s true,” Hazuki-san nodded. “You’ve both been busier than a Taki-sensei post-competition fan club. Want us to walk to the station with you?”Reina shook her head slowly. “There’s a few things I need to get sorted first. Thanks for asking though.”As she watched Kumiko’s friends walk away, Reina sighed and settled down onto a bench. December had started off on a high note—what with Kumiko asking her out to Christmas Eve dinner and all—but shortly after their last talk at Mt. Daikichi, her best friend had become distant and preoccupied.Reina could still recall everything about that conversation with heart-wrenching clarity.She knew she’d made a mistake the moment she’d mentioned Taki-sensei—knew it even before she saw the look on Kumiko’s face—the look of a mask descending.It was the first time that Kumiko had ever shut her out and, in that instant, Reina had felt the chill of the winter wind cut all the way down to her bones.It should have been imperceptible—would have been imperceptible—except this was Kumiko, whose every expression and gesture Reina could read as readily and as easily as the notes on a staff.It had happened faster than a heartbeat and as Kumiko had stared at her, Reina had realized that, at that moment, Kumiko looked exactly the same way that Asuka-senpai had all those years ago—enigmatic, inscrutable, and so terribly, terribly alone.“Is that all?” was all Kumiko had said. “You should go, silly,” she’d added with a faint smile on her lips. In it, Reina had detected just the slightest hint of sadness, tenderness and self-mockery.For some reason, to Reina, the smile had felt like a goodbye.“What???” she’d responded, suddenly frightened—and suddenly aware that some vast iceberg she’d never known existed had tipped.“You should go,” Kumiko had repeated, shoving her hands deep into her pockets. “It’s our last year in Kitauji—and he’s the reason you’re here to begin with.”“But…But we’ve already made plans…” Reina had countered, an inexplicable dread and unease clouding her ability to argue.Kumiko had waved a hand airily—another gesture that had reminded Reina of Asuka-senpai at her dismissive worst. “I’ll always be around. The Blues Locker will always be around. Christmas will always be around. But this might be your last chance with Taki-sensei. And if there’s one thing I’ve learned time and again all this years, it’s not to leave any regrets.”“Kumiko…” Reina had repeated, her voice beseeching. She’d stepped forward—then halted when she’d seen Kumiko actually take a step back. “I’ve made enough of a fool of myself trying not to leave any regrets,” Reina had said carefully, recalling the embarrassing display she’d made of herself that first year they’d made it to the Nationals. “And he made his answer quite clear all those years ago.”Kumiko had shaken her head and smiled. “It’s not like you to care how you look—and not like you to give up so easily either. It’s been two years and things change. Taki-sensei’s just a…man. And you’re an outrageously talented and stunningly beautiful girl. Who could possibly resist you?”The note of yearning in the compliment had not been lost on Reina.“Why are you…” Reina had paused and chosen her words carefully. “Why are you so…insistent on this?”Kumiko had looked at her with an expression that revealed that she’d assumed it to be obvious. “I told you I’d root for you remember?” She’d chuckled as she’d gazed off into the distance. “Do you realize that the one and only time we ever fought was because of Taki-sensei? You were so…mad at me for not telling you about his wife.” She’d reached out and gripped the railing before looking back at Reina with a hint of a smile. “This was where we made up over it too.”In that moment, something had twisted in Reina’s heart—a wrench bad enough to make her breath hitch in her throat. She’d felt it then: the brush of some massive and momentous realization, of exactly what her childhood obsession had cost her, had made her overlook, had led her to undervalue all this time…“Kumiko…” her best friend’s name had left her mouth as a plea.“We should get going,” Kumiko had interrupted, derailing her train of thought. “It’s getting really cold.”Reina had nodded dumbly. It was certainly cold and she could feel the chill in the tips of her fingers and the ends of her toes.At that moment though, nothing had felt colder than her heart.And the chill had spread unabated in the days that had followed. She couldn’t even tell if Kumiko was avoiding her—her best friend acted the same as always in the few instances they saw each other in school—but she had suddenly become terribly…busy.And apparently, she was busy with Tsukamoto-san.Just the thought of her best friend with the lanky, brown-haired boy was enough to cause a terrible, tearing sensation in Reina’s chest.It had felt like this, all those years ago, when she’d found out that Taki-sensei had a wife, when she’d been half out of her mind with a frantic and jealous distress—and she’d ended up ignoring Kumiko, enraged by the intensity of an unexpected betrayal.Except this one felt so, so much worse.An ironic voice, rarely heard, whispered in her ear: Why are you so upset? You didn’t choose her after all…“Stop it!” Reina ground out through gritted teeth, oblivious to the stares of concern from the other students in the quadrangle. Of course Kumiko wouldn’t…wait for her. Of course Kumiko wouldn’t…fight for her. She was rooting for Reina and Taki-sensei after all.“Stop it…” Reina groaned, burying her face in her hands. “Just…stop it…” she whispered as she drew her knees up towards her chest and let the hurt take over.Over the school, a melancholy snow began to fall.~~~~~She was lying in bed, trying desperately to rest, when the message came through.
  Are you free the evening of the 21st?
She nearly sobbed in gratitude when she saw from whom the message came.
  Yes, I am. What’s up?
The reply came just moments later.
  We scored a gig at the Blues Locker! That night’s the first of three performances we’re going to give. I’d love it if you could make it.
Reina nearly typed I wouldn’t miss it for anything—before remembering that she’d said exactly the same thing when Kumiko had asked her out to dinner for Christmas Eve.I’ve love to go, was what she ended up sending. Congratulations on scoring a gig this HUGE!!! And despite herself, she couldn’t quite resist adding: Is this why you’ve been so…busy lately?Yeah, came the quick response. Asuka-senpai was being an Asuka-senpai and asked for something at the last minute.Sounds like Asuka-senpai, alright, she replied. Though it just proves how much she trusts you.Asuka-senpai’s trust—just like everything else about her—is a double-edged sword. Reina could practically hear the wryness in her best friend’s voice—a voice that she found herself missing with an almost desperate intensity.I’ll see you then, Reina replied. Though I wish I could see you…sooner. I miss you, you know?Her phone remained quiet for several long moments before the response finally came through.
  I miss you too, Reina.
And that was the moment when Reina made her decision.It didn’t matter if Taki-sensei was coming over to her house on Christmas Eve.It didn’t matter that she’d been crushing on him her whole life.It didn’t even matter where she and Kumiko would end up that night.What mattered was seeing Kumiko.What mattered was being with her best friend.And she would tell Kumiko that after watching her performance at the Blues Locker.With that decision made, for the first time in several days, Reina finally fell deeply asleep.~~~~~“Kousaka-san! It’s good to see you again!”Reina appreciated the genuine warmth behind Asuka-senpai’s greeting, but found herself struggling to return it given how she hadn’t seen a glimpse of Kumiko at all since she’d arrived at the Blues Locker.“Oumae-chan’s just getting ready,” the black-haired woman smiled with a look that was entirely too penetrating for Reina’s liking. “She’s probably breaking a lot of hearts’ tonight—from what I’ve heard and seen so far.”“I’m sure you’ll be breaking hearts yourself, Asuka-senpai,” Reina replied evenly. “You look even lovelier than usual this evening.”The black-haired euphonist arched an eyebrow in delighted surprise. “As always, that’s high praise coming from you, Kousaka-san—”Whatever else the band leader said in the next moment was lost on Reina, because that was the instant when she glanced up towards the staircase and saw her for the first time that evening.For the second time in her short life, Reina realized that having an excellent lung capacity did not always guarantee the ability to breathe.She looked absolutely and utterly gorgeous.For a long, heart-stopping moment, Reina forgot that Asuka-senpai existed, that the Blues Locker existed, that the world itself existed.She had never…seen Kumiko like this: tall, slender, sophisticated, glamorous. Her chestnut hair was tied in a chignon. Her shoulders were on display in a floor-length, asymmetrical, off-the-shoulder gown.And as she descended the staircase, she moved with uncharacteristic grace.When, Reina thought with shock, did she learn to look and move like that?? “Stunning, isn’t she?” She felt rather than heard the words in the proximity of Asuka-senpai’s lips against her ear. “All those dress rehearsals have paid off handsomely, I have to say.”“Stunning doesn’t even begin to describe her…” Reina heard herself muttering from somewhere far away. She found herself moving automatically towards Kumiko, her hand reaching out instinctively towards the beguiling creature who had taken the place of her best friend—Only to find her path suddenly blocked by a lanky, brown-haired boy.“You look…beautiful, Oumae-san…”The note of yearning in Tsukamoto-san’s compliment was not lost on Reina.“Thank you…” she heard the embarrassment in Kumiko’s stammered response—and that was when the terrible, tearing sensation in Reina’s chest clawed its way up to her throat and seized her voice.“Kumiko,” she said quietly.Commandingly.Imploringly.That was when their eyes met and, for the first time in her short life, Reina understood that only death could crown the perfection of a moment that contained the proximity of Kumiko in a russet-colored dress.“Reina…” Kumiko breathed as a look passed between them that shook Reina to her core.She didn’t know how long they stood there staring at each other in a universe of their own…except that the moment felt much too short.And, of course, the interruption had to come from Asuka-senpai.“Well, well, everyone’s finally here, it seems,” the black-haired woman breezed, her lips curving in their familiar enigmatic style. “Now the show can finally begin.”From the gleam in Asuka-senpai’s eyes, Reina knew that the band leader wasn’t referring to the performance that lay ahead.And for some reason, it was enough to get Reina’s stomach suddenly roiling with dread and unease.Outside the windows, a heavy snow began to fall.
      Chapter 15: Intermezzo II
          Summary:
            In which Mamiko’s interference yields fruit and Kaori takes a stand.
        Notes:
          A LOT of this chapter's going to hinge on musical atmosphere, so I've made the appropriate links to the songs that are referenced (though some of the links are to my preferred arrangements rather than the originals). If you have the patience for it, I highly recommend listening to the songs and looking up their lyrics. It'll make a huge difference in how you receive the story ;-)
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    INTERMEZZO II
    noun in·ter·mez·zo  \ˌin-tər-ˈmet-(ˌ)sō, -ˈmed-(ˌ)zō\
   : a short part of a musical work that connects major sections of the work 
“Unbelievable. Our first date in a place as swanky as this and the first thing you do is ogle some other girl.”“She’s not just ‘some other girl’,” Natsuki heard herself saying from somewhere far away. “In fact, I never really thought of her as a girl. At least not until tonight.”Yuuko snorted. “I have to admit,” she added drily as her girlfriend’s eyes tracked Kumiko’s movements across the room, “Oumae-san does clean up well. Still, that’s no reason to stare at someone who doesn’t belong to you—“Yuuko broke off abruptly and the interruption was sudden enough to pull Natsuki out of her daze. “Oh my…” the shorter girl breathed as Kaori emerged at the top of the staircase in a full-length crimson tube dress that left none of her curves to the imagination.“You were saying?” Natsuki spoke wryly as her girlfriend’s eyes trailed their senpai’s progress down the stairs.  “What was I saying?” Yuuko murmured from somewhere far away.Both of them nearly jumped out of their skins when a faintly mocking voice piped up right behind their ears.“Unbelievable. Your first date in a place as swanky as this and the first thing you both do is ogle other girls. Not that I blame either of you. I must say that the members of my harem really do look rather exquisite tonight.”“You’ve really got to stop scaring the bejeezus out of people, Asuka-senpai,” Natsuki muttered before turning around—and then staring in shock at the sight of the black-haired band leader.“Dear Lord,” was all she managed to say as her eyes made contact with the older euphonist’s cleavage, “is that dress even legal??”“Funny,” Asuka-senpai smirked, “Oumae-chan asked the exact same thing. And honestly, Nakagawa-chan, you really shouldn’t stare at someone who doesn’t belong to you—even if it does happen to be me.”“Asuka,” Kaori-senpai interrupted gently while greeting both Natsuki and Yuuko with a warm smile, “we need to get ready.”“You mean they need to get ready,” the band leader breezed as she turned towards her girlfriend. “After all, I’m always ready.”“I know, I know,” Kaori-senpai replied as she rolled her eyes in exasperated affection. As subtle as the gesture was, Natsuki didn’t miss how the black-haired euphonist offered her arm to her girlfriend as they walked off towards the stage. What wasn’t as subtle was how heads turned and gazes lingered as the two made their way through the crowd, the royal blue of Asuka-senpai’s V-necked dress contrasting vividly with the brilliant crimson of Kaori-senpai’s.She had to admit that they really did make a stunning pair.“Ugh, that insufferable arrogance of hers,” Yuuko huffed in irritation. “I have no idea what Kaori-senpai and the rest of you see in her.”“You mean, apart from the fact that she’s incredibly beautiful, insanely brilliant, disturbingly charismatic and wildly talented?“ Natsuki replied mildly.“Why am I even talking to you about this??” Yuuko rolled her eyes in exasperation. “You’re one of her groupies after all.”They were nearly at their seats when they bumped into Kousaka-san.“Kousaka-san!” Natsuki smiled. “It’s been a while.”“Hello, Nakagawa-senpai, Yoshikawa-senpai…” Natsuki wasn’t entirely sure, but the younger girl seemed ever so slightly distressed.It was only when she looked at the stage that she began to realize its cause.“Natsuki,” her girlfriend trilled in a voice loud enough for the black-haired trumpeter to hear, “since when did Oumae-san and Tsukamoto-san get so close??”Natsuki cursed under her breath. She knew what Yuuko was up to and she wasn’t in the mood for it given how stricken Kousaka-san already looked.“Ah, well, you know how it is,” she replied in what she hoped was a reassuringly dismissive tone of voice. “Bandmate camaraderie and all that…jazz…” She trailed off when all three of them caught the fist bump that Tsukamoto-san gave Oumae-chan.“Oh, is that what they call casual flirtation now?” Yuuko smirked.“Seats!” Natsuki exclaimed wildly before further damage could be done. “We should all take our seats!”She hadn’t missed the look on Kousaka-san’s face as she’d stared at her best friend from across the room. It reminded Natsuki of the expression she saw on her own face back in the days when they’d prepared for the Nationals:It was a look that combined envy, longing and…quite palpably desire.Any concern she felt for the younger girl though was quickly forgotten when the performance finally began.The band was absolutely brilliant. There was a confidence, an ease and a sophistication in their playing that Natsuki had never heard before.And just when she thought nothing could eclipse what they’d already accomplished for the evening, Haruka-senpai came to the microphone halfway into the set and made a brief announcement:“Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. To express our most heartfelt gratitude for the privilege of performing at the Blues Locker tonight, we’ve prepared a special number—which also happens to be a debut of sorts.”As the lights dimmed, Natsuki could just make out the figures of Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai taking center stage. “A trumpet and euphonium duet?” she murmured to Yuuko. “This ought to be something…”She saw Kaori-senpai put her trumpet to her lips and, as the first few notes sounded across the hall, immediately recognized Glenn Miller’s At Last. What she did not expect—what she was sure none of them expected—was hearing Asuka-senpai’s shockingly sultry voice accompanying Kaori-senpai instead of her euphonium.“Oh. My. God,” she heard Yuuko breathe from somewhere far away. “She sings??”They listened in stunned silence as the band leader’s effortless vocals twined seamlessly with Kaori-senpai’s trumpet playing, the two of them weaving a spell that ensnared the entire room even as they appeared to be in a universe of their own.I want to do that with Yuuko…Natsuki thought to herself as she blinked back unexpected tears. So this is what’s possible when you play with someon you love…Just when she thought the song was about to conclude, Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai simply faded out to give way to an instrumental solo…That just happened to be a euphonium and trombone duet between Oumae-chan and Tsukamoto-san.Oh no…Natsuki thought as her heart sank. The parallels between the performances were crystal clear. For a musician like Kousaka-san, watching Oumae-chan perform her first instrumental duet with somebody else was probably going to hurt a helluva lot more than watching a fist bump.Especially if the duet was very, very good.And especially if both performers looked like they were having a really, really swell time.And most especially if both musicians happened to display an exceptional chemistry on stage.Which was exactly what was happening with Oumae-chan and Tsukamoto-san.Natsuki watched with sympathy as Kousaka-san’s hands balled into fists—the hands clenching tightly enough for the nails to leave marks.She wasn’t at all surprised when, shortly after the song ended, Kousaka-san stood up with a tell-tale glimmer in over-bright eyes and fled from the hall.~~~~~It was, quite possibly, the best night of Shuuichi’s life.He could still remember everything about the duet with heart-stopping clarity.The way Kumiko had looked. The way Kumiko had sounded. And most importantly, the way Kumiko had looked at him and sounded with him…He barely noticed when the performance ended and went through the remainder of the set in a state of high-functioning euphoria.The only time the gauze lifted was when he finally found himself in the club’s lobby halfway into the break, staring blankly at a glass of champagne.“Earth to Tsukamoto-san,” the sardonic voice of Tanaka-senpai cut into the haze. “As much as I’d like to leave you drifting haplessly around on cloud nine, Watanabe-san’s looking for Oumae-chan and I have no idea where she is. Would you mind looking for her?”“Yeah, sure,” Shuuichi replied agreeably, his elation from the evening’s performance easily eclipsing the annoyance he usually felt towards the band leader.As he began searching the club’s rooms one by one, he heard the faint strains of The Skyliners’ Since I Don’t Have You begin to play.He was starting to think that Kumiko had left the building altogether when, on a whim, he decided to look in one of the balconies.That was when he found Kumiko—together with Kousaka-san.Given the way that they were looking away from each other, he had the distinct feeling that he’d interrupted…something.“Uh, I’m sorry to interrupt Ku—I mean Oumae-san,” Shuuichi spoke uncertainly. “But Tanaka-senpai says that Watanabe-san’s looking for you.”He watched as Kumiko nodded. “I…I have to go, Reina…” she said softly, still not looking at the black-haired girl.“You should go,” he heard the smaller girl say, “I’ll…I’ll stay here for a few more minutes…”After Kumiko left, Shuuichi realized that he’d been granted yet another golden opportunity to forward his intentions with Kumiko—this time with Kousaka-san.“Kousaka-san,” Shuuichi spoke hesitantly. “I know that you’re probably going to tell me to ask Kumi—I mean Oumae-san, herself, but I’m really hoping you can help me out with this…”He heard the trumpeter sigh before turning around to face him.“Help you out with what, Tsukamoto-san?”“Well,” he began as he scratched the back of his head in a sheepish gesture, “I’m trying to figure out what to get Oumae-san for Christmas and I don’t have much time left until Christmas Eve. Given that there’s no one who’d know what she wants better than you—”“Christmas Eve...?” the black-haired girl interrupted. The way she was staring at him was beginning to unsettle Shuuichi.“Oh, well, yes,” Shuuichi laughed, half in embarrassment and half in pride. “I’ve been invited to their house for dinner on Christmas Eve. Mamiko-san thought it would be a great way to cheer Kumiko up as she’s been out of sorts lately…”Shuuichi trailed off when he heard Kousaka-san laugh unexpectedly, the sound edged with what seemed like a tinge of irony and despair.“Of course you’re going to have dinner with her on Christmas Eve…” Kousaka-san shook her head and Shuuichi couldn’t decipher the expression on her face.He watched uncertainly as her shoulders shook—unable to determine if the movement was caused by laughter or by tears. At some point, she straightened her back and looked at him.“I’m sorry, Tsukamoto-san,” she replied with a smile that didn’t quite reach her eyes. “I can’t help you. Because I really don’t know what Kumiko wants anymore.”She left the balcony then and Shuuichi couldn’t quite shake the feeling that somehow, without his knowing it, he’d done something dreadfully wrong.~~~~~“This is what you planned all along, isn’t it?”Kaori stared at her girlfriend with barely concealed anger.“You say that as if it’s a bad thing,” Asuka smirked. “He’ll thank me someday for sparing him from at least one regret.”“There’s a thin line between helping someone out and giving them false hope. You crossed that line, Asuka.”Asuka shrugged. “The world’s a cruel place. Isn’t it better that they find that out sooner rather than later?”Kaori’s lips thinned. “It’s precisely because the world is cruel that we have to make an effort to be kind. This is going to end badly for at least one of them and—quite possibly—even for all of them.”Asuka stared at her with an expression that Kaori knew far too well—the expression of someone whose mask was firmly in place.“I’m not kind, Kaori. You’ve always known that about me. Or have we reached a point now where you feel you can pick the bits about me that you like?”“You can’t shake me off by dismissing this as a character trait, Asuka. You know, deep down, that you can’t keep justifying your behavior in the present with your experiences in the past. If you’re going to behave badly, at the very least, own up to it instead of disguising it as some magnanimous attempt on your part to strip children of their naïveté.”With that, Kaori spun on her heel and left the room. She didn’t have the stomach for listening to the callous or cruel rejoinders that Asuka could so effortlessly dispense.And to think that the evening had started off on such a high note too.She could still remember everything about their duet with heart-brimming clarity.The way Asuka had looked. The way Asuka had sounded. And most importantly, the way Asuka had looked at her and sounded with her…“For all her flaws, she really does love you, you know.”Kaori sighed as she heard Haruka draw near. “What makes you say that?”“You know it as well as I do. Asuka’s fiendishly clever at hiding the things she wants concealed, but she’s always been honest when it comes to her music. I could see it in the way she looked at you while you played—in the way she sang with you and, yes, in the way she sang for you.”Kaori smiled wearily. “I never thought you’d take her side.”Haruka chuckled. “Neither did I. I was so…worried about you when the two of you started dating. But since then, I’ve seen that you’ve learned how to deal with her. And I’m clear now that Asuka needs you more than you need her. You love her enough to understand her baggage without letting her use it as an excuse for anything. Not many people would be able to pull that off.”Kaori laughed sadly. “Well, I don’t know how long I can pull it off without making her want to pull out. That last conversation didn’t go too well.”Haruka smiled. “I think you should have a bit more faith in what you and Asuka have and in Asuka herself. She’s eccentric, whimsical and proud—but she’s also generous, passionate and smart enough not to let her mother issues sabotage her life. Just hang in there.”Kaori smiled. “Thank you, Haruka… I don’t know what I’d do without you.”Haruka laughed. “You’re my best friends. I’m rooting for you both. Now go. She’s probably looking for you.”Kaori was just about to start searching the rooms one by one when a voice accosted in her in one of the hallways.“I know I’m arrogant. And high-handed. And callous and cruel in turns.” Kaori turned around and caught the hooded look in the light blue eyes. “Do you want those parts of me to change?”Kaori shook her head, the overwhelming tenderness she felt for the complex, enigmatic and wounded woman before her coming to the fore. “I love you, Asuka,” she replied quietly. “I just want you to be happy. And I don’t think it makes you happy when you’re being unkind.”The light blue eyes gazed at her for what seemed like an agonizingly long moment—before softening eventually and crinkling at the corners.“You’ve changed, Kaori…” Asuka chuckled.“And so have you,” Kaori replied simply.Asuka looked off into the distance. “I can’t take back what I’ve already done, but moving forward, I can act with more…restraint.”Kaori half laughed and half sobbed.“That’s more than enough,” she whispered, before taking Asuka’s face in both of her hands and pulling her down for a kiss.Somewhere in the distance, The Five Satins’ In the Still of the Night began to play.
        Notes:
          So, yes. This chapter's about my abiding love for doo-wop music, the blues and the AsuKaori ship. And, yes. The KumiRei pain train is definitely still rolling, wahahaha.P.S. When I imagine Asuka singing, what comes to mind is a contralto similar to Etta James' rather than Beyoncé's mezzo-soprano. You can check out the difference here :-D
      Chapter 16: Triste
          Summary:
            In which Mamiko’s interference continues to bear fruit and no one gets what they want.
    Chapter Text
    TRISTE
    adjective \ˈtrēst\
   : sad, mournful; also: wistful 
“Kumiko! Could you get the door please??”“Coming!” Kumiko called back, nearly tripping over her own feet in her rush to exit her room.It was Christmas Eve and even if it was wildly improbable, there wasn’t anyone who’d come visit her house on this particular night of nights except for—“Shuuichi??” Kumiko stared at him in bewilderment.“Uh, hi,” Shuuichi grinned at her bashfully before thrusting a gaily-wrapped box at her nose. “This is for you. Um, Merry Christmas!”Kumiko paused, torn between politeness, perplexity…and a rather profound disappointment.“Erm, thank you. This is…unexpected.” She waved haphazardly in a direction that indicated both Shuuichi’s present and his presence on her doorstep. “What’re you doing he—““Shuuichi!” her sister interrupted at that precise moment. “You’re just in time! Come in!”Shuuichi beamed at Mamiko before handing her a gift-wrapped box and a bottle of wine. “Thank you, Mamiko-san. These are for you and your parents.”“You’re too sweet,” she smiled. “Isn’t he sweet, Kumiko?” Mamiko added with a meaningful look at Kumiko that Kumiko refused to decipher.“Almost sugary,” she replied with a plastered smile before jerking her head towards her room as soon as Shuuichi turned around to hang his coat.“Just make yourself at home, Shuuichi,” Mamiko trilled. “Kumiko and I need to handle something…briefly then we’ll be riiight back.”As soon as they were in her room, Kumiko hissed at her sister. “What’s he doing here??”Mamiko rolled her eyes before hissing back. “I told you I’d have a surprise for you on Christmas Eve, remember??”“Okay. It worked. I’m surprised. Now what??”“What do you mean, now what??”“I mean, what do we do with him??”“Are you an idiot?? He’s our guest! We entertain him!”“Entertain him?? It’s Christmas Eve! Why do I have to entertain someone on Christmas Eve??”Mamiko threw up her hands in exasperation. “How on earth are you going to get a boyfriend if you’re going to act like that??”Kumiko’s eyebrows knit together. “Who on earth said I wanted to get a boyfriend?? And even if I did, why would it have be Shuuichi??”Mamiko frowned in confusion. “I thought there was something going on between the two of you since you’ve been hanging out so much lately—““We were rehearsing!” Kumiko hissed at a slightly higher octave.Mamiko rolled her eyes. “Come on, no one rehearses that much.”“I do. Reina does,” Kumiko replied through gritted teeth. “And Shuuchi and I did. We just had two weeks to prepare for a duet for the Blues Locker for goodness’ sake!”Mamiko arched an eyebrow. “I thought you were just using it as an excuse. Besides you really did look so much better when he was around.”Kumiko groaned. Mamiko was right in pointing out that she’d cheered up considerably in the two weeks leading up to her performance with Shuuichi.But that had nothing to do with Shuuichi and everything to do with the performance itself. If Asuka-senpai hadn’t thrown down that particular gauntlet, Kumiko would have probably moped right through to the New Year. Being forced to focus on her music, however, had helped as nothing else could have. Not only had it taken Kumiko’s mind off her baffling reaction to her cancelled dinner with Reina—it had also made her realize that her efforts over the past two years to keep up with her best friend hadn’t been entirely in vain.Plus, the gig at the Blues Locker was her second chance to perform something for Reina.Well, not that it was for Reina, exactly, given that it was for the club’s patrons and the public at large.But in her mind, it was for Reina (as it had always been for Reina), and during rehearsals, the depth and complexity of her feelings for her best friend had transmuted themselves effortlessly into a sound as limpid and as luminous as the trumpeter’s eyes…She suddenly remembered the look in those eyes when she and Reina had first glanced at each other that night in the Blues Locker…Those eyes had been quiet. (As always.)Commanding. (As expected.)Imploring. (But for what??)She didn’t know how long they had stood there staring at each other, in a universe of their own, except that the moment had felt much too short.And then she’d had to run off to perform with Shuuichi, and even as she’d looked at him (as they’d had to look at each other in the course of their performance), it wasn’t Shuuichi that she saw—or even her friends in the audience—but Reina (just Reina and always Reina…).Reina…who was suddenly nowhere to be found when she’d finally put her euphonium down and, with the surety of an instinct that applied to her best friend and her best friend alone, Kumiko had begun searching the club’s rooms one by one.She’d finally found the trumpeter in one of the balconies, her slender silhouette cast in the pale glow of the stars above Uji.Reina had broken the silence first. “I’m sorry I ran off…” she’d murmured without turning around. “It was such a beautiful performance that it pained me to stay…”Kumiko had raised an eyebrow. “I thought you didn’t mind pain,” she’d replied casually as she’d stepped forward to join the smaller girl at the railing.Reina chuckled, the sound edged with a strangely mournful air. “I don’t mind pain,” she’d replied cryptically, “but I don’t revel in it either.”She’d turned around then and, after a pause, had reached up to caress Kumiko’s cheek. “I’m proud of you,” she’d said softly. “You were…You are…breathtaking…”Without saying anything, Kumiko had wrapped her arms around Reina’s waist. In response, Reina had settled her hands around the back of her neck and buried her face in Kumiko’s shoulder.“I’ve missed you, you know?”Kumiko had smiled. “I’m just here,” she’d answered placidly. “I’ve always been here and I’ll always be here.”“Why does it feel that you’ve left me? Or that you’ll leave me?”Kumiko had felt rather than heard the words in the fierceness of Reina’s embrace.“I won’t,” Kumiko had replied simply. “And at any rate,” she’d added with a brightness that she didn’t at all feel, “aren’t those my lines?”“I’d never leave you,” Reina had responded in a muffled voice. “I couldn’t leave you even if I tried.”“Then don’t try,” Kumiko had replied quietly.Reina had drawn back. “Kumiko…” she’d began hesitantly, “about the 24th…”“What about the 24th?” Kumiko had murmured breathlessly, spellbound by the sweep of raven lashes against delicate cheekbones.“I was wondering if you’d like—that is, if you wouldn’t mind—I mean if you don’t have other plans—not that I’m saying that you don’t—“ Reina broke off, took a deep breath and tried again. “What I’m trying to say is: Would you like to—“Whatever else Reina had been about to say in the next moment was lost to Kumiko, because that was the moment when Shuuichi had shown up to tell her that Watanabe-san was looking for her.She’d been forced to leave Reina then, but after she’d finally fulfilled her obligations, her best friend was nowhere to be found.And all of Kumiko’s messages to Reina since then had been met with nothing but a pointed silence.Which meant that they were somehow back to that strange evasive space that had sprung up between them for most of the month. Natsuki-senpai’s words came back to Kumiko full force. Boyfriends and best friends don’t exactly mix. Taki-sensei wasn’t even Reina’s boyfriend yet and already a distance had sprung between them.It had taken all of Kumiko’s courage to send her a text on the morning of the 24th:  Hey. Not sure what’s been keeping you busy and all, but I just wanted to wish you luck for later. I’m cheering you on!Reina hadn’t replied to that either, and now, to make matters worse, Kumiko found herself having to entertain an unexpected guest on the same night that she’d been looking forward to just a few weeks ago.“Look,” Mamiko pointed out cajolingly, “you’ve known Shuuichi for years. It’s not like you have to treat him specially or anything.”At least that’s what her sister had said before dinner had started. But as the evening had progressed, Mamiko’s behavior around Shuuichi had become odder and odder.It was almost as if he’d come as a…suitor or something.Things finally reached a head when, after dinner, Mamiko had turned to Shuuichi and said: “The evening’s still young. Maybe you’d both like to go for a walk.”The pointed look she’d thrown Kumiko then had been enough to squelch Kumiko’s almost immediate protest.“I dunno…” she’d hedged instead. “Maybe Mom needs us to help with the washing up…?”“Oh, you young ones go enjoy yourselves,” her mother had replied with a suspiciously conspiratorial and uncharacteristically indulgent air. “I think you both deserve it after all the hard work you put into the band this month.”“Fine,” Kumiko had sighed, and that was how she’d found herself strolling the streets with Shuuichi.“Hey,” Shuuichi began after they’d walked around for several minutes. “I was wondering if you’d like—that is, if you wouldn’t mind—I mean if you don’t have other plans—not that I’m saying that you don’t—“ he broke off, took a deep breath and tried again. “What I’m trying to say is: Would you like to go see the aurora display at the Rurikei Onsen Pote Pote Park with me??”“Huh?” Kumiko found herself responding automatically. “Why??”Shuuichi stopped in the middle of the street. “You know,” he replied slowly, “that’s exactly what you said two years ago when I asked you to come with me to the Agata Festival…”Kumiko shrugged noncommittally. “I don’t remember you giving me an answer.”Shuuichi looked at her long and hard.“What?” she asked, beginning to feel slightly defensive.“After all this time,” he said quietly, “you still don’t get it…” He shook his head and muttered. “Or maybe it’s that you refuse to get it…”“Get what?” she asked, a trace of exasperation in her voice.“Get the fact that I like you!” Shuuichi yelled, the inadvertent confession laced with a painful combination of anger, sadness, frustration and hope.She stared at him in mild shock and something about the expression on her face must have been responsible for the sudden sag of his shoulders.“I’ve liked you for years…” he continued in a more subdued manner. “You just couldn’t see it or you just wouldn’t see it…”She watched silently as Shuuichi scuffed his shoes morosely against the sidewalk. “Dammit,” he sighed, “it wasn’t supposed to go this way…”“I’m sorry, Shuuichi…”“Sorry for what?” he asked, the slightest edge of bitterness in his voice.“Sorry for not getting it…and sorry for not…feeling the same way.”She watched his shoulders droop even further.“I kinda figured…” he muttered. “I’ve always sort of known. I think that’s why I’ve never said anything until now. I just thought that maybe I had a chance when we worked so well together preparing for our duet…”He looked up at her then. “Is it because of Katou-san?”Kumiko’s brow furrowed. “Hazuki-chan? What would Hazuki-chan have to do with—“ Then she suddenly remembered. “Oh. Oh.” She waved her hands wildly. “It doesn’t have anything to do with Hazuki-chan.”Shuuichi continued to look at her sharply. “Then is it because there’s someone else?”Kumiko blinked. For some reason, she found the question…oddly confusing. “What?? How could there be someone else? I mean, between school, the concert band and the jazz band, when and where and how would I even manage to meet someone??”Shuuichi chuckled wearily. “Yeah, I know. It’s just that…sometimes, I get the feeling that you know exactly how I feel...This wanting to be with someone, I mean…” He shook his head. “I don’t know…I just get that sense sometimes…looking at you.”It was at that moment that Kumiko felt how terribly she’d wronged him—and how little he’d deserved it.“I really am sorry, Shuuichi,” she said quietly. “You’re a good guy—““Just not the right one,” he finished, looking at her with a forlorn smile. “There’s no need to apologize, Kumiko. It’s not your fault that you don’t feel the same way I do. I mean, I should know that better than most.”“Shuuichi…” she began helplessly.He shook his head. “I should walk you back to your house—““You don’t have to,” Kumiko cut him off gently. “It’s probably not a good idea anyway. At least not right now. Besides, it is my neighborhood. You don’t have to worry about me being safe or anything.”He hesitated briefly before finally nodding. “Alright…Please give Mamiko-san and your parents my thanks.”“I will. And for what it’s worth…Merry Christmas, Shuuichi.”He gave her a small wave before turning around and walking off.As she watched his silhouette recede, Kumiko suddenly felt the full weight of her seventeen years.  “What on earth did I do to deserve a Christmas like this??” she groaned as she began the long walk back towards her house.If anything, things were probably going to get even worse once her scheming sister found out that she’d turned Shuuichi down.An idea struck her then.It wasn’t going to save her Christmas—but it would at least spare her a scolding from Mamiko.With that thought in mind, Kumiko trudged the rest of the somber way home.Around her, a melancholy snow began to fall.
      Chapter 17: Culminano
          Summary:
            In which Reina makes a move, Kumiko gets confused, a whole lot of yelling ensues and fireworks—quite literally—go off.
    Chapter Text
    CULMINANO
    noun cul·mi·na·no  \ˌkəl-mə-ˈnā-no\
   : the point of highest dramatic tension in a musical composition 
  “Reina! Taki-sensei’s here!”
  “Coming!” Reina called back and glanced at herself in the mirror one final time.
  The purple dress was more flattering than she’d expected given its modest Sabrina neckline. But it was also, quite frankly, the sort of look she would have aimed for in a dinner with Taki-sensei just a few short months ago.
  Except that now, for some strange reason, she couldn’t help wishing she were wearing it for her best friend instead.
  The best friend whose messages she’d been pointedly ignoring since their last encounter a few nights ago at the Blues Locker.
  Reina could still remember everything about her exchange with Kumiko at the balcony with heart-wrenching clarity.
  The way Kumiko had looked. The way Kumiko had sounded. And most importantly, the way Kumiko had looked at her and held her close…
  And then Tsukamoto had interrupted and Reina had found out—right when she’d been about to ask Kumiko to be with her on the 24th—that her best friend had made plans with the trombonist instead.
  She could still recall the terrible, tearing sensation in her chest when Tsukamoto had said with the faintest air of pride: I’ve been invited to their house for dinner on Christmas Eve…
  She had felt that sensation too, all those years ago, when she and Kumiko had won dud gold in their last year of middle school, when she’d been so appalled by her bandmates’ insensitive jubilation—and she’d ended up yelling at the euphonist, stricken by the intensity of a crushing loss.
  Except this occasion felt so, so much worse.
  She knew she was being radically unfair towards Kumiko; knew that if there was anyone who was at fault, it was her, and that she was punishing her best friend undeservedly in the exact same way she’d punished Kumiko when she’d first found out about Taki-sensei’s wife.
  But Reina didn’t know how to fix how she felt—she couldn’t even make sense of how she felt—and now, it was Christmas Eve, and the glittering festivity of the holiday did nothing but accentuate the throbbing ache in her chest.
  It was an ache that not even the presence of Taki-sensei could dispel or alleviate. All throughout dinner, she could feel her mother’s bewilderment at her polite yet preoccupied air—so different from the obsessive focus she usually displayed when the conductor was around.
  She hardly noticed when dinner ended and went through the car ride to the Rurikei Onsen Pote Pote Park in a state of high-functioning distraction.
  The only time the gauze lifted was when the aurora display finally started and the dazzling hues across the sky triggered a memory of watching a kaleidoscope of firework lights play across Kumiko’s face…
  She didn’t realize how distressed she looked until she felt the light pressure of Taki-sensei’s hand on her back.
  “Are you okay, Kousaka-san?”
  Reina started. As she stared at Taki-sensei’s handsome and kindly face—the face she’d fantasized about for so long, for a number of years that spanned more than half of her life—she realized that despite the proximity of his face to hers, she felt none of the breathless, jittery, nervous excitement that tended to accompany even just the thought of her crush alone.
  And in that instant, Reina knew with an implacable and intractable conviction that something she’d suspected for a long time was true.
  She wasn’t in love with Taki-sensei.
  She hadn’t been in love with him for a long time.
  Because…because…at some point that she’d failed to notice, she’d fallen in love with Kumiko.
  Her sweet, funny, gorgeous, sometimes perceptive but mostly oblivious Kumiko.
  Who’d spent an entire year doing God knew what so she could keep up with Reina.
  Who’d given up something she’d been planning for weeks so Reina could have her evening with Taki-sensei.
  Who’d been rooting for her and Taki-sensei all this time.
  Who could read her as readily and as easily as the notes on the staff.
  Who’d done nothing but make her feel utterly and unambiguously special.
  Kumiko, the bloody idiot.
  Her bloody idiot.
  And she was an even bloodier idiot for letting her bloody idiot get away.
  Reina stepped back and took a deep breath. “I’m…I’m sorry, Taki-sensei…But there’s somewhere else I need to be right now.”
  And with that, Reina spun on her heel and ran.
  ~~~~~
  “This is your part, you know.”
  Kumiko stared pointedly at the small trumpet plushie that sat on the bench next to her. She’d just finished the euphonium section of a jazz rendition of Blue Christmas and now it was the trumpet’s turn.
  The plushie looked at her placidly. I can’t play myself. I’m just an instrument.
  Kumiko sighed. On top of everything else she’d had to endure that night, she had to put up with the snarkiness of an imaginary child. “I bet I’m the only one who talks to a plushie,” she muttered glumly as she put her euphonium back into its case.
  The plushie gazed at her solemnly. I wouldn’t worry about that too much if I were you. I would, however, and he looked at Kumiko slightly disapprovingly, worry about the tendency to say my thoughts out loud.
  Kumiko winced. “You’re as brutal as your mother.”
  That’s okay, the plushie replied blithely. You find pain hot, after all.
  At that moment, an utterly familiar yet just as utterly unexpected voice sounded behind her: “You’re a terrible mother. To make the child take the place of the parent...”
  Kumiko spun around.
  “Reina!” she breathed in mild shock. “What are you doing here??”
  “Ditching my night with Taki-sensei—in the same way that you ditched your night with Tsukamoto-san.”
  Kumiko winced. “Shuuichi was Mamiko’s idea…It’s not like I wanted a date night…not with him at any rate…” She paused, then waved her hands wildly. “Not that I wanted a date night with anyone! Apart from you, I mean. Not that an evening with you would be a date, I think…”
  Kumiko trailed off. She wasn’t going anywhere with this. In fact, she wasn’t entirely sure herself where she wanted to go with this.
  Reina chuckled and shook her head. “You really are such a spaz in so many ways…” She paused then and looked away. “Spaz or not, I…owe you an apology. Maybe even two…or three. I got mad at you for something you didn’t do—and something which you had every right to do, if you’d actually done it anyway...”
  Kumiko sighed. “I’m not really sure what you’re apologizing for, but you could have just texted me instead of coming all the way out here. How’d you find me anyway??”
  “I ran into Tsukamoto-san at the Rurikei Onsen Pote Pote Park, and when I saw that you weren’t with him, I went to your house and found out about what really happened from your sister. You being here at Mt. Daikichi was…guesswork.”
  Kumiko shook her head. “Reina, I know you’re into grand gestures and things, but you really did not have to come here. Look, the night’s still young, and if you get a cab now, you can still spend the rest of the evening with Taki-sensei—“
  Reina stamped her foot in exasperation. “But I don’t want to spend the rest of the evening with Taki-sensei!”
  Kumiko could feel her temper rising. “Are you an idiot??? You’ve spent more than half of your life waiting for this chance and now you’re going to ruin it just so you can tell me something that can wait until tomorrow??”
  Reina finally yelled. “Why the hell do you keep pushing me towards him??”
  That was when Kumiko finally snapped. “Because if you’re with him then it makes goddamn sense why you’re not with me!!!”
  Reina’s eyes widened. In the long pause that ensued, they stared at each other in shock.
  Reina broke the silence first. She spoke the next words quietly: “You’re in love with me, aren’t you??”
  Kumiko backed away from Reina slowly. There it finally was: the exact realization she’d tried so hard to avoid. All those times when it had edged close to her consciousness, she’d managed to run away from it just in time. Asuka-senpai’s words came back full force: You know that thing you do when you’re scared of being hurt? Well, you’re doing it again…
  Because yes, she was in love with Reina—had been in love with Reina from the moment the trumpeter had rounded on her all those years ago and screamed out her frustration and distress, had been in love with this fierce and beautiful spitfire of a girl—
  Who was madly in love with someone else.
  Someone else who fit her so, so much better because he was special too in all the right ways.
  Kumiko turned on her heel as the sensation of an iceberg tipping intensified, with all the cataclysmic consequences she’d tried to avoid. I’m going to lose her…I’m going to lose her…I’m going to lose her…
  She needed to get away now—
  A hand gripped her wrist fiercely.
  “Don’t go…” She felt rather than heard the words. “Don’t go, Kumiko...”
  With a desperation that startled her with its intensity, Kumiko wrenched her arm free of Reina’s grasp. “I can’t keep doing this!” she yelled—and stopped when she saw the look of shock on Reina’s face.
  It was just like that long ago afternoon with Asuka-senpai all over again, when she’d confronted the older girl about her decision to quit the band, when the anger, the frustration, and yes, the love, had finally bubbled over and she’d screamed her inchoate feelings out. Except this time it was going to end badly because it was with Reina, and there was no quitting Reina, and hand in hand with the love had always been this crushing sense of desolation and loss.
  “All this time…” she whispered as she gazed off into space. “All this time…my life’s been about catching up with you, trailing after you, keeping your back within my sights, while you ran after something else or after someone else...” Kumiko laughed bitterly. “I thought I’d be okay too. I thought I’d be okay just being behind you…”
  “You’re such an idiot,” Reina whispered. Kumiko watched as the smaller girl closed her eyes. “I’m such an idiot…” she murmured. Then she opened her eyes and looked at Kumiko. “You’ve never been behind me. For a long time, you haven’t even been just next to me. You’ve been in front of me all this time, Kumiko, and I just didn’t realize it…”
  “Realize what??”
  “That I’m in love with you too!!!”
  Kumiko looked at Reina in disbelief, the incredulity plain on her face. “But, but,” she spluttered, “you’ve been in love with Taki-sensei all this time! How could you have fallen out of love??”
  “Whose fault do you think that is??” Reina yelled. Kumiko watched as the trumpeter took a deep breath and then sighed. “I think I’ve been in love with you for a long time. I was just so…afraid. Compared to people, music is easy. With music you just have to work hard enough. With people, it doesn’t matter how hard you work if they don’t feel the same way…”
  Kumiko looked away and muttered. “That never stopped you from running after Taki-sensei…”
  Reina stepped forward and took Kumiko’s hand. “Kumiko,” she pleaded, “I had nothing to lose with Taki-sensei. He was just someone I admired, even if it was for a very long time. That wasn’t the case with you. If I lost you…if this turned out to be a mistake…if you stopped being my best friend…” Reina stopped and Kumiko could hear the quaver in the smaller girl’s voice when she spoke again. “Do you have any idea, any idea at all, how hard it was being away from you for one entire yea—“
  Kumiko couldn’t help herself then—couldn’t help the impulse that caused her to tug Reina close and cover her best friend’s lips with her own.
  And the moment she wrapped her arms around the smaller girl and pressed her mouth to Reina’s was the moment that she realized that some things in life were too perfect for even death, because death would only mean losing the heart-stopping sensation of impossibly soft lips…
  The world was spinning when she broke away and she was sure she would have fallen over if not for the tightness of Reina’s embrace.
  “Kumiko…” Reina gasped, surprise written all over her pretty face.
  Kumiko stepped back as the enormity of what she’d done hit her. “I’m…I’m…I’m sorry, Rei—“
  “Shut up and kiss me again,” Reina breathed before pulling Kumiko back down for another kiss.
  And then another. And another. And another.
  On the sixth kiss, Reina parted her lips ever so slightly, and the brush of tongue against lip made Kumiko’s world spin even faster.
  The next thing she knew, she was on her back on the platform, her best friend’s face hovering above hers. Luminous violet eyes stared at her solemnly.
  “You won’t leave me?”
  “No.”
  “You won’t betray me?”
  “No.”
  “You’ll be with me forever?”
  “You can kill me if I’m not.”
  “Then kiss me again.”
  And Kumiko did.
  Again and again and again.
  She didn’t know how long they lay there wrestling in a tangle of lips and limbs, because all sense of time had stopped and there was nothing else in the universe but the starlight that was Reina and the stars of Uji overhead.
  It was Reina who finally broke away and the words were out before Kumiko could stop herself.
  “I love you.”
  She saw Reina’s eyes widen—and the tell-tale glimmer of unshed tears.
  “I’ve loved you from the moment I actually noticed you.”
  And Kumiko knew then that she’d always known how she’d felt, but hadn’t allowed herself to dwell on what she knew and what she felt, because there was no way that a painfully ordinary girl like her could ever be with a dazzlingly extraordinary girl like Reina, except if a miracle happened.
  And a miracle had happened.
  It was only when she heard Reina say “It’s not a miracle,” that she realized that she’d spoken out loud.
  “After all this time,” Reina murmured as she ran the tip of her finger over Kumiko’s nose, “you still don’t get it.”
  “Get what?”
  “Get how special you are.”
  Kumiko snorted, “Come on—“
  “I mean it,” Reina interrupted, the slightest hint of steel in her voice. “Trust the expert on all things special.”
  Kumiko chuckled. “It’s not that I don’t trust you,” she murmured as she lay her head on Reina’s lap, “it’s just that you’re not exactly an impartial observer.”
  “Not at all,” Reina smiled as she ran her fingers through Kumiko’s messy locks. “I never was impartial around you. You stood out for me from the very start.”
  Despite her best effort to restrain herself, Kumiko couldn’t resist the impulse to reach up and run the base of her thumb along the curve of Reina’s lip. “I still can’t believe this is happening,” she whispered.
  Reina sighed. “It would have happened much sooner if I hadn’t been so blind and fixated…and terrified.” Luminous violet eyes stared regretfully at Kumiko. “I’m so sorry, Kumiko…I promise I’ll make it up to you.”
  Kumiko shook her head and smiled. “You’re not the only one who lost her nerve. And besides, the timing’s actually kind of…perfect...“ As if to underscore her point, a bloom of fireworks suddenly blossomed across the night-time sky while faint shouts of “Merry Christmas!” carried up the hill. “Makes up for a largely miserable December, don’t you think?”
  Reina laughed. “It’s a start,” she conceded, as they both watched the kaleidoscope of firework lights play across the sky. “Merry Christmas, Kumiko,” she murmured as she bent down and planted another kiss on Kumiko’s lips.
  Kumiko smiled. “Merry Christmas, Reina.” She twined her arms around Reina’s neck and a long moment passed during which time all that could be heard was the winter breeze blowing through starlit trees.
  When they finally parted, Reina leaned back and sighed. “We should do this again next year.”
  “Which part of this exactly?” Kumiko murmured teasingly. “The making out?”
  Reina looked down and stared at her through narrowed eyes. “I’ll kill you if you make me wait that long.”
  Kumiko laughed. “Kousaka Reina, who knew you were such a perv?”
  Reina smiled devilishly. “You’re one to talk, Oumae Kumiko—given that you’ve got your head between my legs.”
  They spent the next fifteen minutes staunching the bleeding in Kumiko’s nose—as all around them and over Uji the first snow of Christmas began to fall.
      Chapter 18: Armonioso
          Summary:
            In which Kumiko and Reina reunite, debate the merits of disclosure and attempt to address Kumiko’s propensity for nosebleeds.
    Chapter Text
    ARMONIOSO
    adjective ar·mo·ni·os·o  \är-ˈmō-nē-əs-ō\
   :  having agreement among musical components; musically concordant 
“Reina! Kumiko-chan’s here!”“Coming!” Reina called back and glanced at herself in the mirror one final time.The shirt dress was far less revealing than she’d hoped given its V-shaped neckline. After a moment’s consideration, Reina unfastened one more button from the top. After all, it was the first time she was seeing Kumiko since their night together on Mt. Daikichi and she certainly wanted to make an impression.“I’ll be in the kitchen okay?? Just let me know what you and Kumiko-chan want with your tea later!”“Okay!” Reina replied and gave herself a final spritz of perfume.She felt her heart pounding as she headed down the stairs. She’d imagined her reunion with Kumiko countless times over the past three days and each iteration had been a variation on a theme of composure, dignity and restraint.But the moment Kumiko spotted her and flashed her a smile as blinding as the winter snow, Reina found herself abandoning composure, abandoning dignity and abandoning restraint.She would have, in all honesty, flung herself into her best friend’s arms if not for the sudden, brief reappearance of her mother on her way to the kitchen.“Kumiko,” she breathed instead, her voice sounding strained and strangled even to her own ears.“Reina,” her best friend replied with an equanimity that Reina found just the slightest bit annoying. That Kumiko could even retain enough self-possession to greet her so serenely when Reina had fretted over their separation for days—The thought was enough to make her turn abruptly on her heel and march up the stairs towards her bedroom. She was still irritated when she closed the door and turned around: “So, do you want the cookies I baked or cake—“Whatever else she was going to say in the next moment was completely lost, because that was the instant when Kumiko slammed her against the wall and crushed her mouth against Reina’s.For a moment, Reina’s heart stopped.All the fantasies she’d ever entertained about Taki-sensei paled vastly in comparison to this.This being the fact that Kumiko—her Kumiko—her distant, disinterested, preoccupied and seemingly composed Kumiko—was actually manhandling her in her bedroom, actually doing something without Reina’s consent…and actually doing it with an intensity, an urgency and a mindlessness that was enough to cause a fair bit of pain.That was the precise moment that Reina understood exactly what it meant to be turned on.Because, by God, she was definitely turned on—every nerve in her body singing wildly with want.Kumiko’s fingers squeezed her wrists brutally as her tongue invaded Reina’s mouth and that was when Reina moaned.She suspected her forearms—and quite possibly her lips—would bruise after this.Not that she cared in the slightest.If anything, she prayed that the roughhousing would never end.Then the kissing stopped abruptly and she would have slid to the floor in a daze if not for the tightness of Kumiko’s grip.She watched, chest heaving, as liquid golden eyes lightened to their characteristic amber shade before suddenly widening in belated horror.“Reina!” Kumiko stepped back, alarm and dismay written all over her face. “I’m…I’m…I’m so…sorry! I don’t know what came over me—I shouldn’t have jumped on you like that—I swear I had this all worked out in my head—It wasn’t supposed to turn out like this—It’s just that I hadn’t seen you for three days—““Shut up and do that again,” Reina breathed before shoving her best friend down onto her bed.Because besides imagining her reunion with Kumiko countless times over the last three days, she’d also replayed their kisses in her head again and again and again—And as marvellous as those replays had been, they really did NOT compare to the actual thing.“We…should…stop…” Kumiko gasped in the brief intervals when they both surfaced for air.“But why…?” Reina muttered in between nips at Kumiko’s neck.“Because…your…mother…” Kumiko moaned as Reina’s teeth grazed her collarbone.“What about my mother?” Reina continued to mutter as she began to suck at a spot at the base of Kumiko’s throat.“Your mother…is going to ground you…for far longer than three days…if she catches us like this...” Kumiko rasped, the light amber of her eyes darkened back to molten gold, her pupils helplessly dilated.“You really know how to kill the mood,” Reina sighed before finally and reluctantly sliding off her best friend. “But, yeah, three days was bad enough. I still think she overreacted.”Kumiko smiled as she sat up. “Well, you did embarrass her by running away from Taki-sensei without explanation on Christmas Eve. She must’ve been mortified.”Reina winced. “Don’t remind me. I still owe him an official apology.”Kumiko shrugged. “You know Taki-sensei. I’m pretty sure he wasn’t upset by it. But yeah, you should apologize. If only because it’ll make you feel better.”Reina shook her head. “You’re terrible, you know.”“Only if by terrible you mean inappropriately candid.”“I’d rather you were inappropriate in other ways,” Reina murmured, leaning down towards her girlfriend once again.“I’d rather be inappropriate too,” Kumiko sighed, “but I don’t want to risk being banished from your house for the rest of my life.”Reina sat up, suddenly serious. “Do you think you’d be banished? If my parents found out about us, I mean.”Kumiko lay on her side and looked up at Reina. “They’re your parents. Do you think they’d banish me if they found out?”Reina looked away. “I don’t think they’d be all that happy at first…But they’ve always let me have my way.”Kumiko chuckled wryly. “Pursuing your dream is one thing. Pursuing your same-sex best friend is another. They might not let you have your way in this one.”“Being granted permission is one thing,” Reina replied simply. “Needing permission is another.” She reached out and gently traced a finger over Kumiko’s nose. “I don’t need their permission to be with you.” After a pause, she asked: “And what about you?  What if your parents don’t approve?”Kumiko snorted. “I think they’ve had their fill of playing the disapproving and unsupportive authority figures with Mamiko. With me, they’re either just bewildered or resigned.”“And what if it’s Mamiko who disapproves?”“Then she’ll have a taste of what it feels like to play the disapproving and unsupportive authority figure.”“Do you really think it’s going to be that easy?”Kumiko shrugged. “Probably not. But it’s never been easy being with you anyway.”“I really don’t know if you meant to say that out loud,” Reina replied drily.Kumiko waved her hand dismissively. “You know what I mean. It’s been hard keeping up with you, Reina. I mean, look at you: You’re outrageously talented, stunningly beautiful and extraordinarily focused. And then look at me—““Stop it,” Reina whispered harshly, one thumb drawn across Kumiko’s lips to silence her. “You forget that you’re talking about the person I love.”“Reina…” the sudden quaver in the normally steady voice and the tell-tale glimmer in over-bright eyes cut through the tension, and with the surety of an instinct that applied to Kumiko and Kumiko alone, Reina gently pulled her best friend up for a kiss.“Do you regret any of it?” Reina asked when they finally drew away from each other.“Regret what?”“All the…work you had to do in keeping up with me.”Kumiko shook her head and smiled. “You know the answer to that question.”“Knowing it is one thing. Hearing it is another.”Kumiko laughed. “Fine. No, I don’t regret any of it. I’d do it all over again if I had to.”Reina blushed. “You really are a sucker for pain,” she muttered.“I know,” Kumiko smiled at her fondly.Reina swatted her arm in annoyance. “You weren’t supposed to say that out loud.”“Oh, you know me. I was just being inappropriately candid.”“Fine. You can make up for it by just being inappropriate, period.”“Your single-mindedness never fails to amaze me.”“I’d like to think that everything about me never fails to amaze you.”“If you’re looking for confirmation that you have me wrapped around your little finger, the answer is yes.”Reina smiled suggestively before sidling forward to straddle Kumiko’s lap. “If I’m looking for anything,” she murmured in a low throaty rumble that succeeded spectacularly in turning Kumiko into a mass of quivering jelly, “it’s an opportunity to wrap myself around your fingers—little or otherwise.”And that was how—fifteen minutes later—Reina’s mother found them both occupied with staunching the bleeding in Kumiko’s nose.“Oh dear, you’re really prone to these nosebleeds aren’t you, Kumiko-chan?” Reina’s mother clucked with a sympathetic shake of her head.“Only when I’m with your daughter, Kousaka-san,” Kumiko muttered before Reina silenced her with a pinch.“I’ll just leave the cake and tea here then, Reina,” her mother smiled. “If there’s anything else you’d like, Kumiko-chan, just let me know.”With a sly look at Reina that had revenge written all over it, Kumiko replied, “Well, actually, now that you mention it, I’d like your daught—““We’re good, Mom,” Reina interrupted, while Kumiko whimpered in the grip of another vicious pinch.When her mother was safely out of earshot, Reina hissed at her best friend.“I thought you didn’t want to be banished from my house!”“You didn’t actually let me finish my sentence,” Kumiko smirked. “I was going to say, ‘I’d like your daughter’s cookies, Kousaka-san.’”Reina glared at her best friend. “You really are terrible, you know.”“But that’s exactly what you like about me,” was Kumiko’s matter-of-fact response.They stayed that way for several minutes in companionable silence, Reina occasionally stroking Kumiko’s head.“Hey Reina,” Kumiko began.“Hmmm?”“Our parents are one thing. Our friends are another. What are we going to tell people?”Reina paused. “Do we need to tell them anything?”Kumiko looked at her for a long moment. “When you put it that way, then no, we don’t need to tell them anything.”Reina looked back at her in amusement. “But…you would like to tell them something.”“Well, um, don’t you think it’s…I don’t know…called for?”Reina thought about it briefly. “I don’t know…When Gotou-san and Nagase-san started going out, I don’t think they had to announce it or anything. People just figured it out.”“So…you’re okay with people figuring it out?”“Are you not okay with people figuring it out?”“Well,” Kumiko bit her lip, “I hadn’t thought about it all that much, actually. Honestly, I don’t mind either way. What matters to me is that we’re on the same page.”“I think we should just let things be as they are,” Reina smiled. “After all, what purpose would it serve to announce it to the world?”“I don’t know,” Kumiko smirked. “I mean, aren’t you the expert on making announcements to the world?”Reina colored—before violently swatting Kumiko. The two of them scuffled briefly before Reina finally gave up and settled down to lie in Kumiko’s arms.“That was different,” she muttered. “It wasn’t about telling the world how I felt. It was about telling him.”“I know, I know,” Kumiko chuckled, running a hand soothingly up and down Reina’s arm. “I get what you mean.”Reina rested her cheek against Kumiko’s chest. “You always get what I mean. It’s one of the many things that made me fall in love with you.”“So just to be clear, we carry on the way we always have?”Reina smiled wickedly. “In front of the world, sure. Away from prying eyes, I was hoping we could carry on in a whole bunch of other ways—”Whatever else she was going to say in the next moment was completely lost, because that was the instant when another blood vessel in Kumiko’s nose gave way.“Kumiko?” Reina began after several minutes had passed.“Hmmm?”“You really are such a spaz.”“…”“Is this going to be a problem?”Kumiko took a finger off her nostril to look at Reina through one eye. “Erm…I think it could be a problem…” she admitted weakly.Reina sighed. “I sometimes thought of you as a bloody idiot—I never realized how accurate the description would be.”“But I’m your bloody idiot right?”Reina chuckled. “Yes. You are. Which, quite frankly, makes me the bigger idiot.”“So, um, what do we do now?”Reina paused for a long moment before breaking out into an impish grin. “Well, we work on raising your unusually low tolerance for…arousal, of course.”“And how, pray tell, do you plan on doing that?” Reina heard the slightest hitch in her best friend’s voice.Reina’s smile was positively feral. “Why, by exciting you in increasing degrees, of course.”Kumiko’s eyes shuttered close. “I just might die from blood loss…” Then she opened her eyes, snagged a finger into the collar of Reina’s dress and pulled her close. “But I’ve never minded the thought of dying by your hand anyway,” she whispered.And that was the last thing either of them said for a good long while.
      Chapter 19: Capriccio II
          Summary:
            In which the gang gets together, a newcomer makes a move, Kumiko remains oblivious and hilarity ensues.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CAPRICCIO II
    noun  ca·pric·cio  \kə-ˈprē-ch(ē-ˌ)ō\
   : a humorous, fanciful, or bizarre, composition, often characterized by an idiosyncratic departure from current stylistic norms 
“Asuka-senpai! Kaori-senpai! Wait up!”Asuka turned around and waited as four familiar figures scurried over to where she and Kaori stood.“Sorry we’re late," Nakagawa-chan panted, face slightly red from her exertions and the cold.“Reina and I weren’t late,” Oumae-chan interrupted mildly. “You and Yuuko-senpai were.”“Well, some of us take our osoji very seriously you know,” Yoshikawa-san harrumphed. “Natsuki and I went too far with our New Year’s Eve spring cleaning and that’s why we overslept.”“Oh? Is that what they call it now? Spring cleaning?” Asuka tittered.Yoshikawa-san’s face flamed. “And what exactly are you implying, Asuka-senpai?”“That neither you nor Nakagawa-chan here got much cleaning done—and not much sleeping either,” Asuka smirked. “Those marks near your jaw don’t look like dustborne allergies to me.”Yoshikawa-san gasped—before rounding on Nakagawa-chan and hissing: “I told you not to leave marks! And how could you let me leave the house without covering them up!”Nakagawa-chan put her hands up defensively, “I did tell you to use a thicker scarf, but you told me you didn’t have time to change—““You didn’t say why I needed a thicker scarf and it’s your fault I overslept anyway—““Goodness gracious,” Kaori laughed as they all started walking away from the bickering couple, “it’s the New Year already, but some things never change.”“And some things we’d given up on apparently do,” Asuka murmured as she offered her arm to her girlfriend.“Oh?” Kaori followed Asuka’s gaze until her eyes rested on Kumiko and Reina where they walked several paces ahead. “And what is it that you spy with your bespectacled eye?”“Shyness,” Asuka replied without hesitation. “Those two have never been inhibited with each other before but look at them now.”They both watched with interest as the two figures brushed each other slightly—then jumped wildly apart.“It is suspicious,” Kaori assented.“It’s very suspicious,” Asuka cackled.Kaori sighed. “You aren’t thinking of doing something that’s…unnecessary, are you?”“Not at all, my love,” Asuka smirked. “After all, there are times in one’s life when the unnecessary is precisely not needed. Besides, guess who just showed up?”Kaori scanned the crowd ahead briefly. “Oh dear,” she murmured. “That isn’t who I think it is, is it?”“It is indeed,” Asuka grinned. “Goodness, who knew that New Year’s Day shrine visits could be so much fun??”~~~~~“Kumiko! Kousaka-san! Over here!”Hazuki waved wildly until she finally caught the attention of her two friends.“Hazuki-chan! Midori-chan!” Kumiko beamed as they approached each other. “It feels like ages since I last saw you both.”“I know,” Hazuki replied smugly. “That’s usually how people feel when they’ve been away from me too long.”“I wouldn’t be so smug if I were you, Hazuki-chan,” Midori smiled. “After all, Kumiko-chan didn’t say that she minded the separation.”Hazuki rounded on the smaller girl rapidly and began pinching her cheek. “When did you get to be such a smart-ass, Kawashima Sapphire?? Hmm? Hmm?”“I certainly minded the separation,” an imperious voice declared, “from Kumiko-senpai, that is.”Hazuki turned away from Midori abruptly and laughed self-consciously. “Oh, um, I hope you and Kousaka-san don’t mind if Tsubaki-chan here joins us, Kumiko. She really, really wanted to come along…”Truth be told, Hazuki hadn’t thought anything at all about the younger euphonist’s insistence on joining their New Year’s Day shrine visit—until she saw the look of concern on Midori’s face when she’d brought it up.“Aida-san’s joining us?” the contrabassist had asked.“Why? Is there a problem?” Hazuki had replied with an eyebrow raised.The smaller girl had hesitated. “Well…she seems awfully clingy with Kumiko-chan. And she seems to put Kousaka-san on edge…”“Clingy?” Hazuki had frowned. “I think she really just admires Kumiko. It sort of reminds me of the way Yuuko-senpai used to admire Kaori-senpai.”“Exactly,” the contrabassist had muttered under her breath. Then she’d caught the puzzled look that Hazuki had sent her way and began waving her hands wildly. “I’m sure it’ll be okay! I mean, it’s a shrine visit after all...so I don’t think they’d do anything to disturb the peace…”Now, feeling the strangely…dark vibrations emanating from Tsubaki-chan and Kousaka-san as they glared at each other, Hazuki wondered if Midori’s sense of foreboding had been justified after all.Kumiko seemed largely unconcerned though and that was enough to reassure Hazuki.“Tsubaki-chan,” Kumiko greeted the junior euphonist warmly, “have you been enjoying the break?”The younger girl shook her head vehemently before inserting herself into the gap between Kumiko and Kousaka-san and clutching Kumiko’s arm. “How can I possibly enjoy something that keeps me away from you, Kumiko-senpai??”“Funny you should mention that, Aida-san,” Reina replied drily. “I enjoyed my break for precisely those reasons.”“Oh look!” Midori squeaked as Hazuki felt a fresh wave of hostility emanating from the junior euphonist and the trumpeter. “Here come the seniors!”“Well, well,” Asuka-senpai breezed as they drew near. “Everyone’s here it seems. Now the festivities can finally begin.”From the gleam in Asuka-senpai’s eyes, Hazuki knew that the band leader wasn’t referring to the rites that lay ahead.And for some reason, it was enough to get Hazuki’s stomach suddenly roiling with the slightest bit of unease.~~~~~“Dear Lord,” Yuuko moaned as she sank into a bench and rubbed her calves, “that certainly took forever.”“The lines wouldn’t have been as long if we’d gotten here on time,” Kousaka-san replied matter-of-factly.“Are we still going on about that?” Yuuko seethed as she turned around to scowl at the younger trumpeter.Kaori-senpai sighed. “It’s the New Year already, but some things really never change. Why don’t you two ever get along??”Natsuki smirked. “It could be a trumpeter thing. No sense of camaraderie at all. Not like us euphonists.”“I fervently agree,” Aida-chan cut in while pressing herself against Oumae-chan’s side. “The bond between euphonists is a rare and beautiful thing.”Natsuki raised an eyebrow. She’d seen the smitten girl a number of times at Oumae-chan’s performances before—and marvelled at the rare and beautiful thing that was Oumae-chan’s obliviousness. “If you ask me, Aida-san,” Kousaka-san rebutted evenly while glancing pointedly at Natsuki and Yuuko and then at Asuka-senpai and Kaori-senpai, “I’d say that the not-so-rare bond between euphonists and trumpeters makes for a far more beautiful thing.”“Oh look!” Kawashima-chan piped up as Natsuki felt uncannily dark vibrations begin to radiate from Aida-san and Kousaka-san. “There’s Aioi-no-yashiro! We might as well stop by and pay our respects to the Renri-no-sakaki…”“Isn’t that a bit…premature for you, Midori-senpai?” Aida-san purred. “After all, that’s a shrine that only couples visit.”“Oh, but Midori and I are a couple!” Katou-chan beamed while clasping the smaller girl to her side. “We represent that rarest and most beautiful of bonds—the one between a contrabassist and a tuba player.”Aida-san shook her head demurely. “As lovely as your friendship with Midori-senpai is, Hazuki-senpai, I’m sure it didn’t stop you from wishing for your one true love at the Shimogamo Jinja.”Katou-chan clutched at her heart. “You speak so wisely for one so young.” Then she straightened up and sighed. “But yes, I did wish for my one true love. Or a few fake loves if the one true variety isn’t available.” She caught the look of shock on Kawashima-chan’s face and added defensively. “What?? A girl can’t settle after having her heart broken??”“How about you, Kumiko-senpai?” Aida-san asked, glancing slyly at the brown-haired euphonist from beneath her lashes. “Did you wish for your one true love too?”Natsuki watched with interest as Kousaka-san’s face darkened.“Kumiko doesn’t need to wish for those kinds of things, Aida-san,” the black-haired trumpeter interrupted stiffly. “Not when she already has me.”Aida-san’s mouth twisted. “With all due respect, Kousaka-senpai, as I pointed out with Hazuki-senpai, being with a friend isn’t quite the same as being with the one you love. Though I suppose people who’re too focused on their ambitions wouldn’t be able to tell the two apart.”The hush that fell on the group then was as palpable as the hush that fell before the announcement of a competition’s results.“So what, pray tell, is the difference?” Natsuki shivered at the frostiness in Kousaka-san’s voice.Aida-san smirked. “Well, for starters, you can hold the one you love close, and look deeply into their eyes, and then press your lips to theirs—“Kousaka-san looked completely unimpressed. “Oh, you mean like this??”And before any of them could react, Kousaka-san took Oumae-chan’s face in her hands and gazed at her solemnly—before tugging her down for a long and searing kiss.Silence reigned for several long moments before it was finally broken by a dazed and disoriented Oumae-chan.“Um, Reina, I thought you didn’t want to tell people…”“But I didn’t tell them anything,” the black-haired trumpeter replied matter-of-factly.“Showing trumps telling any time, Oumae-chan,” Asuka-senpai grinned, “Though this particular way of showing rather reminds me of certain things I did last Halloween.”“Oh for goodness’ sake,” Yuuko rolled her eyes irritably, “not everything is about you, Asuka-senpai.”“A lamentable fact, Yoshikawa-san,” Asuka-senpai nodded solemnly, “and one that we all have to live with, I’m afraid.”“Hang on!” Katou-chan shook her head wildly. “Let me get this straight.” She narrowed her eyes at Oumae-chan. “You’re not straight. And you’re going out with Kousaka-san. Since when???”Oumae-chan laughed uncertainly. “Um, since when have I been not straight?? Or since when have I been going out with Reina??”“I don’t know!” Katou-chan flailed her hands around wildly. “The first? The second? Both??”Oumae-chan paused. “I don’t know if I’m not straight…I just want to be with Reina. I’ve always wanted to be with Reina.”For the second time in several minutes, a hush fell over the entire group.After a brief pause, Yuuko turned accusingly towards Natsuki. “How come you’re never that romantic with me??”Natsuki blinked. “How did this end up being about you??”“You haven’t answered the second question yet, Kumiko-chan,” Kawashima-chan squeaked, forever sensitive to signs of impending hostility.“Christmas,” Kousaka-san butted in. “We’ve been going out since Christmas.”“Kumiko-senpai, you meanie!!!” They all swivelled around then to look at Aida-san.Oumae-chan blinked. “I’m sorry I didn’t tell you, Tsubaki-chan, but I didn’t tell anyone else either…”She trailed off when Aida-san turned around abruptly and ran away, sobs racking her frame.“Was keeping it quiet really that big a deal?” Oumae-chan asked the rest of the group in bewilderment.Kaori-senpai sighed. “Oumae-san, that obliviousness of yours hasn’t changed at all either.”“Kaori-senpai, I have no idea what you’re talking about.”“Well then,” Asuka-senpai clapped her hands. “Now that that’s all cleared up, why don’t we proceed to the Renri-no-sakaki?”“Oh?” Natsuki raised an eyebrow, “I thought you weren’t really into praying for things, Asuka-senpai. Wasn’t working hard your credo?”“It was,” the band leader mused, before glancing at Kaori-senpai with a small smile. “But there are some things in life that you do pray for—because they can only be a gift from the gods.”It took several long moments before the rest of the group remembered to move.“That does it,” Katou-chan nodded fiercely. “I’m officially worshipping Asuka-senpai from this point onwards.”“I agree,” Kawashima-chan replied reverently. “I’ll even help you build a shrine.”“I don’t know if it’s in the water Oumae-chan and Asuka-senpai are drinking,” Yuuko bristled as she jabbed a finger at Natsuki, “but you’ve seriously got to work on your game—““Oh?” Natsuki interrupted with a smirk, “If I wasn’t on top of my game, you wouldn’t have been on top of me all night—“She caught the scandalized looks on Katou-chan’s and Kawashima-chan’s faces then—and added without missing a single beat: “—standing on my shoulders so you could reach the ceiling’s cobwebs with a broom.”“Wow,” Kawashima-chan intoned with admiration, “you’re both really into this New Year’s Eve spring cleaning business, aren’t you??”“Totally,” Natsuki and Yuuko replied in unison.“We should do that next year, Kumiko,” Kousaka-san smiled with the slightest hint of craftiness.Oumae-chan grinned. “Totally.”~~~~~“I’m sorry I outed us,” Reina sighed as she pressed her face into Kumiko’s shoulder on the train ride home. “Possessiveness makes me do strange things.”Kumiko chuckled as she took Reina’s hand into her own. “Well, I did want to tell them, so you don’t need to apologize. I have no idea why you were possessive though.”Reina shook her head and smiled. “Kaori-senpai was right. Some things never change.” She paused then before adding: “I am curious about what you asked for at the shrine though.”Kumiko gazed up towards the train ceiling. “I didn’t ask for anything,” she eventually replied.Reina looked up at her in surprise. “Really? Why not?”Kumiko squeezed her hand and smiled.“Because I already have everything I want.”
        Notes:
          For those of you who aren't too familiar with Japanese New Year customs, Kumiko and her friends are out doing hatsumode—the practice of visiting a shrine or temple during the first few days of January to pray for good fortune in the year ahead. The shrine featured is Shimogamo Jinja which is a famous shrine in Kyoto for asking for blessings in love and marriage (though visitors can also pray for other things). The shrine has a subordinate shrine called Aioi-no-yashiro which is home to the sacred tree Renri-no-sakaki. The osoji custom Yuuko mentions at the start of the chapter is the custom of cleaning out the house right before the New Year. Now, the new character introduced in this chapter, Aida Tsubaki, isn't really all that new. Some of you may remember her as the clingy junior who irritated Reina immensely because she was pressing so close to Kumiko in Chapter 11 (Dissonante). I finally gave her a name here, haha.
      Chapter 20: Scherzando
          Summary:
            In which Reina makes a move to make Kumiko make a move—and Kumiko remains oblivious.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    SCHERZANDO
   adverb or adjective scher·zan·do   \ skert-ˈsän-(ˌ)dō\
   : playful; joking 
“Reina! Kumiko-chan’s here!”“Coming!” Reina called back and glanced at herself in the mirror one final time.The denim jumper was just about as revealing as she’d hoped given its ridiculously short length—and wildly inappropriate given the early February weather. After a moment’s hesitation, Reina adjusted the straps to expose more of her décolletage. After all, what was the point of indoor heating if one couldn’t wear whatever one wanted during winter?“Your father and I are going now, okay? Just make sure to lock up before you and Kumiko-chan head upstairs.”“Okay!” Reina replied and gave herself a final spritz of perfume.She felt her heart pounding as she headed down the stairs. She’d imagined her reunion with Kumiko countless times over the past three days and each iteration had been a variation on a theme of composure, dignity and restraint.But the moment Kumiko spotted her and raked her eyes over Reina’s bare legs, Reina found herself on the verge of abandoning composure, abandoning dignity and abandoning restraint.“What are you doing gaping like that?” she asked Kumiko, masking her mounting excitement with wry amusement. “It’s not like you haven’t seen my legs before.”“Forgive me,” Kumiko murmured, her golden eyes still fixed on their target. “I don’t think I can ever glimpse your bare legs with any kind of sobriety. After all, I nearly died the last time I saw them.”Reina half laughed and half winced at the memory. “True,” she admitted. “That bump on your forehead lasted for about a week.”As she turned to lead them up the stairs, she felt Kumiko catch her wrist.“Hang on,” Kumiko smiled—the odd glint in her eyes suddenly making Reina’s breath hitch. “The last time we had this conversation, you promised that I’d get to see more than your bare legs…”“Only if you gave me a ring…” Reina retorted with barely a quaver in her voice.Kumiko laughed, a low throaty rumble that vibrated somewhere in the base of Reina’s spine.“Haven’t I given you enough?” she whispered into Reina’s ear as a hand curved possessively over Reina’s hip. “After everything I’ve given you and everything I’ve given up for you…”Reina bit her lip to stifle a moan.“I’ve been wanting to do this all week, you know?”The murmur, bordering on a growl, made Reina’s knees grow weak.“Do…do what?” she questioned breathlessly.“Take everything you have to give, of course…”Whatever else she was going to say in the next moment was completely lost, because that was the instant when Kumiko slammed her down into the sofa and crushed her mouth against Reina’s.For a moment, Reina’s heart stopped.This wasn’t the Kumiko she knew.But this was definitely the Kumiko she wanted.It was the Kumiko, in fact, that she’d plotted for days to unmask—the one that lay underneath the good girl skin.And by God, she was going to revel in every single moment of that Kumiko being around.She didn’t know how long they lay there wrestling in a tangle of lips and limbs, because all sense of time had stopped and there was nothing else in the universe but the tempest that was Kumiko and the roiling waves between them both.“Kumiko…” Reina moaned as she felt her girlfriend’s lips glide down the column of her throat. “For someone who can barely sew,” she gasped as she felt her jumper’s straps slide down her arms, “those fingers of yours are pretty quick…”“I think you overlook the fact that it’s easier to make things come undone than it is to have them put together,” Kumiko murmured as she slipped a hand underneath the hem of Reina’s shirt.“You…really…are…a…smooth…talker…when…you’re…like…this…” Reina gasped. All thought was rapidly becoming impossible given how quickly Kumiko’s fingers were scaling the ladder of her ribs.“Enjoy the talking while it lasts,” Kumiko rasped, the light amber of her eyes darkened to molten gold. “Because in a moment, I’m going to have my mouth full.”Reina didn’t have the time to digest the implications of that statement because in the next instant, her girlfriend had pushed her shirt and her bra high enough to wrap devouring lips around a hardened nipple.The sensation was enough to make Reina nearly lose her mind.“Kumiko…” she half sobbed as her back arched instinctively, her arms wrapping around the taller girl in an effort to keep the maddening sensations going. “Don’t stop…” she whimpered—and nearly took her words back when the added ministrations of Kumiko’s tongue and teeth brought her to the verge of passing out.The thought of how long it had taken her to engineer this particular makeout session, however, was enough to bring her back from the edge.“Kumiko…” she implored, hoping that her normally oblivious girlfriend would take the hint and drop her off another kind of edge altogether.“Patience, my raven-haired hornblower…” Kumiko chuckled, her thumbs taking over where her lips had been as she eased herself down the couch.“If there were a Nobel Prize for patience, I’d have won it already,” Reina moaned. “How long are you going to take before you blow my horn???”And, as if on cue, that was when they heard the horn of Reina’s parents’ car—just minutes before her mother returned to retrieve the tickets they’d left behind.~~~~~“I’m so, so sorry, Reina.”Reina looked over at where her girlfriend had curled up in the corner of her room and sighed.“What are you apologizing for? We managed to scramble up the stairs in time so my parents didn’t actually catch us.”Kumiko looked absolutely crestfallen. “If they hadn’t come back, I would have—I could have—I mean, it’s not proper—I mean, there’s a certain…order to these things—And we haven’t really discussed s—se—these matters—And I took advantage of you—“Reina sighed again. The normal Kumiko was definitely back—and with her return, the disappearance of any possibility of relief for Reina.She felt an enormous urge to weep.Especially since, this time, they’d come so, so close. Damn these teenage hormones, Reina thought angrily to herself. And damn my girlfriend for looking the way she does, and looking at me the way she does, and making me feel the way I do, and being too damned nice to follow through—“You’re mad at me, aren’t you?” The guilt and the fear in the earnest amber eyes caused Reina to forget her irritation entirely.“I’m not mad at you,” she smiled gently before crawling over to Kumiko and snuggling into the taller girl’s side. “And, trust me, you weren’t taking advantage of me either.”“But when I think of what I could have done—!” Kumiko wailed before burying her face in her hands.“Let’s not go there,” Reina replied with the slightest hint of steel as the thought of what Kumiko could have done threatened to fan the embers of her frustration all over again. “Nothing…much happened, and neither of us got into trouble. So let’s just enjoy the time we still have left today.”Kumiko peeked at her from between her fingers. “So…what do you want to do for the rest of today?”Reina paused. There was only one thing in the world that she could do to work off all her pent-up tension.“Grab your euphonium. We’re going off to practice.”~~~~~“Over here, Haruka!”Haruka shaded her eyes and scanned the street briefly before finally spotting the waving figure.“It’s a freezing day for rehearsals,” she huffed when she drew up close to Kaori. “Where’s Asuka?”“She went off ahead to the music studio with Nakagawa-san and Yuuko-chan to get the radiator going.”“Smart move,” Haruka nodded as she and Kaori hurried forward in the cold.When they got to the studio, however, they found Asuka, Nakagawa-san and Yoshikawa-san sitting in the foyer with an air of almost mournful commiseration.Haruka was about to ask why they hadn’t gone in ahead when the blast of a trumpet from inside the studio cut her off.Haruka frowned. “That’s odd…Isn’t that piece meant to be played dolce e delicato? Why is Kousaka-san going at it agitato e appassionato?Asuka clucked her tongue. “That, my dear Haruka, is the sound of a trumpet blowing off steam.”Nakagawa-san muttered. “That makes this, what, the fifth time time in two weeks??”Haruka remained bewildered. “But why would Kousaka-san need to blow off steam…?”At that moment, they were cut off by the sound of a euphonium. Just like the trumpet earlier, Haruka thought the expression was a tad off.Asuka tittered. “There’s your answer right there, Haruka. Our Oumae-chan is being adagio e ritenuto instead of being risoluto e vigoroso.”“I wouldn’t be so callous in your shoes, Asuka-senpai,” Yoshikawa-san interrupted snidely. “After all, doesn’t the protégé mirror the master? One would have thought that those euphonists’ lips would know how to blow—“Haruka caught the look of panic that flashed across Nakagawa-san’s face then. She couldn’t blame the brown-haired euphonist though. In an all-out cat fight between Asuka and Yoshikawa-san, Haruka didn’t harbour any illusions about who would win.“Don’t mind Yuuko, Asuka-senpai!” Nakagawa-san exclaimed in a nervous rush. “You know how it is with these trumpeters. Their tongues certainly know how to wag—““Oh?” Yoshikawa-san raised an eyebrow at her girlfriend in challenge. “I don’t hear you complaining when my tongue wags down—““Oh for goodness’ sake,” Haruka exclaimed, her ears flaming. She’d just about gotten the drift of the conversation. “Can we not have this discussion here??”“It’s quite alright, Nakagawa-chan,” Asuka waved a hand serenely. “I’m not inclined to take offense at insults that are off the mark. This has nothing to do with Oumae-chan being my protégé and everything to do with Oumae-chan being Oumae-chan.”“Meaning…?” Haruka raised an eyebrow.Kaori sighed. “Meaning, her obliviousness.”For several long moments, silence reigned.“I almost feel sorry for Kousaka-san,” Haruka conceded.“We should all feel sorry for Kousaka-san,” Kaori asserted.“Oh, for crying out loud,” Yoshikawa-san replied with a roll of her eyes. “Kousaka-san should just say something.”Nakagawa-san shook her head. “We can’t all be spitfires like you, you know. Always so ready to proclaim your passion. Always so ready to take on the world.”“Odd to hear that from you. If I hadn’t said anything, you’d only have gotten as far as first base—“The two spots of bright red on Nakagawa-san’s cheeks did nothing to detract from the indignation in her voice. “Well, if I recall correctly, you started begging off at second base—“Yoshikawa-san’s eyebrows quirked in anger. “Just because a girl doesn’t want to stop at first base doesn’t mean you’ve got to head straight for the home run—““Oh for goodness’ sakes!” Haruka exclaimed, her cheeks burning. “Will you two stop it with the…sports discussions—”Whatever else Haruka was going to say next was lost in the sudden blare of a very frustrated sounding trumpet.After a moment’s pause, Kaori turned to her girlfriend and raised an eyebrow. “Asuka?”Asuka sighed. “I’m going to have to go do something unnecessary, don’t I?”Kaori smiled. “You are her eupho-mama.” Asuka pinched the bridge of her nose and muttered. “Dear God, the things we do for love.”Haruka laughed. “Appearances aside, you euphonists really are wusses.”Yoshikawa-san smiled demurely as she held up her hand. “Have little finger, will wind.”Outside, a light snow began to fall.
        Notes:
          Alright, there are a couple of Italian musical terms in this chapter that I need to explain for the jokes to land, haha. Dolce e delicato means "sweet and delicate;" agitato e appassionato means "agitated and passionate;" adagio e ritenuto means "slow and thoughtful;" and risoluto e vigoroso means "resolute and vigorous."Just in case any of you are interested, the first part of this chapter heavily references the events in Chapter 7 (Crescendo) and Chapter 9 (Accelerando). You may want to review those chapters just for fun. X-D
      Chapter 21: Custos II
          Summary:
            In which Asuka goes undercover, Reina sheds some light and Yuuko maintains the upper hand.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    CUSTOS II
   noun cus·tos  \ˈkəˌstäs, -tōs; ˈku̇ˌstōs\
   : symbol at the very end of a staff of music which indicates the pitch for the first note of the next line as a warning of what is to come 
“Reina! There’s someone at the door!”“Coooming!” Reina called back from her bedroom as the doorbell chimed for the fourth time under just a minute.Only one person could be calling her at this particular hour, yet it was unlikely that Kumiko would be this pressingly impatient.When she opened the door, however, the woman at her doorstep was the one person she would never have expected to find. Out in the cold, holding a stack of white placards, was none other than the former vice president of Kitauji’s Concert Band. Before Reina could say anything, however, the black-haired euphonist grinned and held up the first card:
  Say it’s Carol Aird.
Reina nearly groaned.Still grinning, her bespectacled senior continued flashing one card after another:…With any luck, by next year…
  …our darling Oumae-chan…
  …will have blown your horn…
At this, Reina’s eyes widened—before a blaze of intense annoyance and affronted pride had her moving to slam the door shut.A booted foot inserted itself between the door and the frame just in time—before another series of placards was waved jauntily in her face:
  …But for now let me say…
  …without hope or agenda…
  …just because it’s nearly Valentines…
  …(and at Valentines one will say nearly anything)…
  …that the chances of that happening…
  …without an intervention of some kind…
  …are about as high…
  …as Nakagawa-chan topping Yoshikawa-san…
  …and you know I never lie.
Despite herself, Reina had to laugh.That didn’t stop her from trying to shut the door in Asuka-senpai’s face again, however.The older woman’s muffled voice managed to make itself heard through the wood. “Kousaka-san, come on!!! Which of the seven deadly sins would you rather indulge?? Pride?? Or lust??”Reina paused before opening the door just a crack. “I choose greed.”This time, the black-haired euphonist managed to shoulder her way into the living room.“Greed? Do explain, Kousaka-san.”Reina crossed her arms before flipping her hair back over one shoulder. “I like having it all. Which means I’d prefer to maintain my pride while gratifying my lust, thank you very much.”The band leader tittered. “Touché, Kousaka-san. I admit I didn’t foresee that possibility.”Reina rolled her eyes. “You’re not the only genius in Kumiko’s life, Asuka-senpai.”The bespectacled euphonist waved her hand airily. “True. Last I checked, there were three or four of us around. Honestly, she ought to start a collection.”“So why are you here? You’re obviously not intervening in my personal life out of concern for me, so you must be doing it for Kumiko.”“It has nothing to do with your personal life or Oumae-chan’s—and everything to do with mine, I’m afraid.”“Ah. Nakaseko-senpai sent you, didn’t she?”The older woman chuckled. “If only the depth of your perspicacity could make up for your girlfriend’s dearth of it.”Reina raised an eyebrow. “Was the Carol-Love Actually crossover parody Nakaseko-senpai’s idea too?”Her senior made a solemn gesture of negation. “Of course not. Kaori would never stoop to mocking Carol.”Reina sighed before motioning at the older woman to take a seat. “Fine. I’d rather not prolong this indignity. So what do you need to know?”The band leader settled herself into an arm chair before shooting Reina a long and appraising look. “Oumae-chan: What gets her going and what keeps her going?”Reina hesitated. All her many explorations in this regard had yielded pitifully few answers.“Well…” she finally replied haltingly. “Kumiko…tends to be more…’forward’ when we’ve been apart for a while…”The older woman nodded. “A cure that’s worse than the disease, I’m sure.”Reina continued stiffly. “She also takes the…erm…’initiative’ when she’s had a bit to drink...”At this, Asuka-senpai’s eyes brightened considerably. “Ah. So absence—and alcohol—make her heart grow fonder, so to speak.”Reina paused. “There’s a drawback though…”Her senior raised an eyebrow.“When Kumiko drinks, she falls asleep. At some…point.”Reina marvelled at how her composure barely wavered with that admission. Just recalling all the times Kumiko had lost consciousness right when things were getting interesting—and right after Kumiko had succeeded in working Reina up to an intense degree of excitement—was usually enough to foul her mood.“Ah,” the black-haired euphoneist replied with an admirably straight face. “It’s so like our Oumae-chan to complicate things somewhat.” She paused for a moment before looking at Reina with an uncharacteristically remorseful gaze. “It turns out that this is my fault after all, Kousaka-san. I should have ignored Haruka when she prohibited me from working on Oumae-chan’s alcohol tolerance.”Reina sighed. “Asuka-senpai, with all due respect, this really is not about you.”“It’s more fun when it is though,” the older woman replied absently without batting an eyelash. “At any rate, I think it’s time I finally addressed this gap in Oumae-chan’s continuing education.” She stood up then before nodding at Reina. “Thank you, Kousaka-san. You’ll be hearing from me soon enough.”It was only after her senior had left that Reina finally gave herself permission to groan out loud.“Dear Lord,” she muttered, “this is precisely why I don’t do tribes.”~~~~~“Oh dear,” Kaori breathed as she beheld the line of glass bottles arrayed on her kitchen countertop, “you aren’t planning on learning the xylophone, are you??”“Percussion’s never been my thing,” Asuka replied distractedly as she peered critically at the beverage labels. “Though the idea of smacking things on occasion does have its appeal.”“I can think of a few things you’d probably like to smack on occasion…” Kaori hummed as she inserted herself into the gap between Asuka and the kitchen counter.“Well, you do produce a much finer sound than a bottle xylophone…” Asuka replied before leaning in and capturing Kaori’s lips in a kiss.“Just so you know,” Kaori murmured when they finally drew apart, “that made for a terrible compliment.”Asuka chuckled. “Where you’re concerned, I prefer veracity over flattery.”Kaori rolled her eyes. “What am I going to do with that smart mouth of yours??”Asuka wagged her eyebrows at her girlfriend. “I can think of a few things you’d probably like—“Kaori silenced her by pulling her down for another kiss. “Um, yes,” Asuka breathed when they finally came up for air. “That was actually one of the things I had in mind. The first of twenty-six.”Kaori laughed. “You can tell me about the other twenty-five later. Right now, I’m more interested in finding out what your proposed solution is to the problem of Kousaka-san’s enforced chastity.”Asuka gestured towards the kitchen counter with a flourish. “My home-made xylophone explains it all, I think.”Kaori examined the labels more closely. “Beer?? That’s dreadfully—and unexpectedly—cliché coming from you.”Asuka grinned. “Where this operation is concerned, I value efficacy over originality. Having said that, Kousaka-san did warn me that it’s not going to be as straightforward as we’d like.”Kaori raised an eyebrow. “So what’s the complication?”Asuka sighed dramatically. “Oumae-chan is a lightweight. We need to find out how much alcohol she needs to get into the mood while still retaining consciousness.”“So these bottles are…?”“A lineup of beers with increasing levels of alcoholic content. For example, the Hoegaarden Rosée at the end has three percent alcohol by volume, followed by Crabbie’s Ginger Beer with four, followed by the Arnold Palmer Spiked with five, and then Bert Grant’s Imperial Stout with six, then Anderson Valley’s Winter Solstice Seasonal Ale with seven, and then the New Holland Golden Mean with eight—““Goodness…You really don’t do things by half measures, do you??”“Where’s the fun in that?? Besides, I’ve spent too much time quoting Yoda’s ‘Do or do not, there is no try!’ line with Oumae-chan to not walk my own talk.”“Fair enough” Kaori conceded. “Still, I’m surprised that Kousaka-san even gave you the time of day. You haven’t exactly endeared yourself to her over the years.”“Let’s just say I made a compelling entrance.”“You mean you wouldn’t let her shut the door.”Asuka managed to assemble a look of righteous indignation. “Just so you know, that’s a terrible assumption to make about my person.”Kaori smiled sweetly. “Where you’re concerned, I prefer veracity over flattery.”“Now who’s got a smart mouth?” Asuka complained.Kaori waved a hand dismissively. “I’ve learned from the best. At any rate,” she added, “how exactly are you going to pull this experiment off? Oumae-san’s never shown an interest in learning how to drink.”“Oh, that’s the easy part,” Asuka smirked. “The Blues Locker recently introduced Latin Nights on Saturday evenings. I think we can get the gang together under the pretext of a pre-Valentines Day group date.”Kaori frowned. “That still doesn’t guarantee that Oumae-san’s going to touch any alcohol. If you try to cajole her, she’s just liable to get suspicious.”Asuka grinned. “That’s where Yoshikawa-san comes in. If there’s anyone who can bulldoze anyone into a drinking contest—or any contest, for that matter—it’s her.”“Wait. That’s your plan?? You’re going to leave Oumae-san in Yuuko-chan’s hands?? This doesn’t have any of your usual subtlety.”Asuka sighed dramatically. “While I generally prefer handling situations with the delicate precision of a surgeon’s knife, Oumae-chan’s obliviousness means that we need the blunt force of a chainsaw.”Kaori shook her head uncertainly. “I don’t know…Yuuko-chan playing the role of a chainsaw in a scheme of your invention somehow feels like a minor disaster waiting to happen. I’m going to rope Haruka into this. Just for back-up.”Asuka smirked. “You’d better warn her then. With Yoshikawa-san around, there’s bound to be sports discussions. Of the particularly athletic variety.”~~~~~“Aaaaaaaaaaaaargh!!!” Natsuki wailed as she covered her face in her hands. “I was sooo clooose!”Yuuko threw her a smug look. “You seriously underestimate me if you think a bit of extended foreplay’s going to throw me off my game. Honestly, you’ve got a long way to go before you can even think about topping me.”Natsuki peeked at her girlfriend through her fingers. “You do realize that we can just switch, right?” she questioned mildly.Yuuko grunted. “That sort of versatility is just the slippery slope to submission. Besides, it really turns me on to look down at you.”“You know, while I truly appreciate the honesty between us, there are some things you really don’t need to say out loud,” Natsuki replied wryly.  Yuuko harrumphed. “That sort of tiptoeing around is yet another slippery slope to surrender. If you’ve got something on your mind, just say it. No holds barred.”Natsuki was about to respond when a vibration somewhere close to her nether regions distracted her. After fishing around the sheets for a minute, she drew up Yuuko’s phone. “Um, Kaori-senpai just texted you.”“Oh?” Yuuko perked up, not even bothering to conceal her excitement. “What does she want?”Natsuki squinted at the screen. “She’s asking for your help in figuring out how much alcohol Oumae-chan needs to get drunk without passing out.”Yuuko frowned. “This is obviously Asuka-senpai asking Kaori-senpai to ask me for help. Kaori-senpai would never have an interest in getting anyone drunk. Hence, my answer is no, absolutely not.”Natsuki shook her head knowingly. “No, no, no. You’ve got it all wrong. Actually, while it appears that this is Asuka-senpai asking Kaori-senpai to ask you for help, in reality, this is Kaori-senpai making Asuka-senpai do something that Asuka-senpai needs help with—and that’s why Asuka-senpai is asking Kaori-senpai to ask you.”Yuuko just stared at Natsuki.“In short,” Natsuki summarized helpfully, “this request is really coming from Kaori-senpai.”“Oh,” Yuuko replied, eyes brightening considerably. “In that case, my answer is yes, of course.”Natsuki sighed. “You could have at least pretended to consider Asuka-senpai’s request. It’s what well-mannered people do.”Yuuko snorted. “That sort of civility is just another slippery slope to—“Natsuki cut in with a roll of her eyes. “Yes, yes, to capitulation.” She paused and stared at her girlfriend with a look of barely concealed hope. “It’s not all that bad, you know?”Yuuko clucked her tongue sympathetically. “Oh, my dearest Natsuki, you’ve really got to try much harder than that. Now,” she breathed suggestively as she straddled the euphonist’s waist, “are you ready for round four??”
        Notes:
          So, I took forever to write a new chapter because I was seriously depressed by the idea of the last Hibike! Euphonium movie featuring a Shumiko romance. Recent comments I've seen posted by the fandom, however, have reassured me that the film has been kinder to our KumiRei ship than I'd hoped (meaning, KyoAni didn't actually send the ship to the bottom of the sea). I still don't know if I'll choose to revise this work after I've watched Liz and the Blue Bird and Finale Oath. While I personally prefer to keep my fanfiction pieces consistent with canon, the work involved in revising this piece may be a bit too much.At any rate, as far this chapter is concerned, readers will have to be familiar with the 2003 romantic comedy Love Actually to get the first joke. That film had an iconic scene that featured one of the characters expressing his unrequited love with a series of placards (it's a scene that's been spoofed to no end by Saturday Night Live). You can watch a short clip of that scene here. As for the 2015 romantic drama Carol that's also referenced in this chapter, I'm pretty sure that that movie needs no introduction in this fandom, LOL.Finally, the "collection" of geniuses Asuka is alluding to in this chapter is a reference to Chapter 10 of this work (Custos I), when Natsuki thinks of the musical geniuses in Kumiko's life: Reina, Asuka, Nozomi and Mizore.
      Chapter 22: Rêverie
          Summary:
            In which Kumiko tries—and spectacularly fails—to get a grip (also known as the chapter where karma finally bites Kumiko in the ass for all her moments of stupendous obliviousness).
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    RÊVERIE
    noun rê•ve•rie  \rĕʹvə-rē\
 : instrumental composition of a diffuse and dreamy character 
  “Imagine yourself floating on the surface of a vast blue ocean, being carried to and fro by roiling waves. Begin to notice the constant movement: How, in the rise and fall of the oceanic swells, there isn’t a moment of stillness, not a single instant of rest. Now imagine yourself sinking deeper into the water and being able to breathe here as easily as you do on land. Notice how the currents begin to quiet as you descend, how all the restless movement and restive motion begin to still…”
  Kumiko sighed. As she gave herself over to the soothing lilt of the recorded instructions, she could feel some of the turbulence and turmoil of the last few weeks begin to recede.
  She’d been more accurate than she’d anticipated when she’d spoken to Reina about the difficulties involved in simply being with the trumpeter. If anything, the challenges had actually mounted since she and Reina had gotten together—though the precise nature of those challenges was completely different from what Kumiko had expected.
  For the fact of the matter was: Kumiko was finding it increasingly impossible to keep her hands (and her lips, and her tongue) off her incredibly beautiful and wildly talented girlfriend.
  Not that she didn’t try. She really did. It was just that…at some point in their inevitable makeout sessions, she would feel a haze descend and begin to lose herself altogether. And every single time she returned to her senses, she would invariably find her normally impeccable girlfriend in a state of utter disorder and disarray.
  Not that Kumiko ever found out exactly what she’d done anyway. Reina tended to be evasive after these episodes—and ever so slightly tense, tight-lipped and withdrawn. Although the trumpeter had repeatedly reassured Kumiko that nothing “much” ever happened, Kumiko was routinely terrified that she’d crossed some inviolable boundary—or that she’d cross one soon if she hadn’t already.
  What was making things even worse was that it was taking increasingly less time and provocation for the haze to possess her. The last time she’d visited Reina, all it had taken was the sight of her girlfriend’s bare legs before Kumiko had lost herself completely. Staying away had proven to be a counterproductive strategy as well; if anything, being reunited with Reina after any kind of separation tended to make the fog descend almost immediately.
  If Kumiko had ever needed further proof that Reina loved her, she found it in the fact that her characteristically impatient and unforgiving girlfriend had remained uncharacteristically patient and forgiving in the face of Kumiko’s many transgressions.
  Which was why, barely six weeks after she’d gotten together with her girlfriend, Kumiko had signed up for an Insight Timer account—and began meditating in earnest. She’d grown especially fond of the Deep Ocean meditation, if only because the metaphor of being tossed and turned around by tempestuous surface waves perfectly embodied her experience of being tossed and turned around by surging teenage hormones.
  Now, as she allowed herself to sink deeper into the blue-green depths of an imaginary underwater world, she could feel some of her pent-up ardor begin to dissolve and dissipate. At some point, she gently touched the bottom of a coral-studded glade, and after gathering her legs underneath her in seiza, closed her eyes and began focusing on her breath.
  She wasn’t sure how long she’d been absorbed in her inhalations and exhalations before the sensation of being gently buffeted by an undersea current caused her to open her eyes.
  That moment was the first time ever in her aquatic meditations that Kumiko actually forgot how to breathe.
  Because floating before her with graceful swishes of a purple-green tail was…a mermaid.
  A mermaid that just happened to have the exquisite face—and the mesmerizing figure—of Kousaka Reina.
  And, as if those details weren’t aggravating enough, the mermaid had nothing on but a pair of extraordinarily tiny shells for concealing a pair of exceptionally luscious breasts.
  Kumiko didn’t know how long she’d been staring before a voice invaded her trance.
    In case you haven’t noticed, your nose is bleeding. 
  Kumiko cast about wildly before finally identifying the owner of the voice. Floating just a few feet away from the the mermaid was a tiny seahorse.
  A seahorse that just happened to have the familiar shape—and the recognizable hues—of her old euphonium plushie.
  The seahorse looked at her equanimously before tilting its head to the side and adding: Well, a nosebleed won’t matter all that much here anyway. It’ll stop soon enough given the underwater pressure.
  Before Kumiko could think of a response, however, the mermaid circled her suddenly—and then stopped just as abruptly to hover a few inches in front of her face. With an imperious smirk, the creature reached out…and traced a finger from the middle of Kumiko’s forehead all the way down to the edge of her upper lip.
  And just like that, Kumiko’s hard-won serenity vanished completely. With a ferocity that shocked her with its intensity, she seized the mermaid’s outstretched arm and pulled it down towards the ocean floor. When the sand finally settled, Kumiko found herself straddling the mermaid’s waist—and pinning its wrists down above its head.
  A sound between a burble and a squeak escaped Kumiko’s throat. That moment of startled realization was all that the mermaid needed to shove Kumiko to the side with a powerful push of its tail. This time, when the waters cleared, Kumiko found that their positions had been reversed.
  The mermaid regarded her with glittering violet eyes…before bending down and capturing Kumiko’s lips in a searing kiss.
  And just like that, Kumiko felt the haze descend. It was a testament to her newly-honed powers of concentration, however, that the fog didn’t envelop her completely.
  Which was probably worse, in a way, because it meant that she was present enough to witness how savagely she returned the mermaid’s kiss in kind.
  Within moments, she’d snaked an arm around the mermaid’s slender waist—at around the same time that the creature had twined its arms around her neck.
  Kumiko had been vaguely aware that sound travelled better in water than on land, but the fact that the mermaid’s moans were reverberating rather spectacularly in her skull settled any doubts she might have had on the matter.
  The moans also confirmed that the mermaid, just like its human counterpart, was partial to having its bottom lip relentlessly sucked—and especially partial to having its mouth thoroughly explored.
  In fact, Kumiko had gotten so engrossed in finding out what else Mermaid Reina had in common with Human Reina that she’d traced her lips and her tongue all the way down to the creature’s navel before belatedly realizing what she was doing.
  Which was, technically speaking, cheating.
  Because even if this creature looked like Reina, sounded like Reina, felt like Reina (and, yes, tasted like Reina), she obviously wasn’t Reina because Reina wasn’t a mermaid.
  A sound between a wail and a yelp escaped Kumiko’s throat. The mermaid blinked at her then (startled by the abrupt termination of their underwater ballet, no doubt), and a look that combined both instant understanding and intense annoyance flashed across its face.
  With an imperious wave of its hand, tendrils of seaweed snaked out suddenly from the ocean floor and curled around Kumiko’s limbs in an immobilizing grip.
  Oh dear, the seahorse remarked as it popped back into view a few feet to Kumiko’s side. You’re really in for it now. It regarded the entire scene briefly before apologetically tilting its head towards Kumiko. Given what’s likely to happen next, I don’t think I should stick around. There are some things that children ought not to see their parents do.
  Wait!!! Kumiko wailed. You’re really just going to leave me with her??
  Why not? the seahorse replied blithely as it began to jet away. You didn’t have any qualms about leaving me with her all those years ago either.
  And with that, Kumiko found herself suddenly abandoned by a (twice) imaginary child.
  Are you kidding me??? she spluttered. Of all the times karma has to bite me in the ass…
  All thoughts of karmic retribution flew out of her head, however, when she felt a pinprick at the base of her throat. Glancing down, she found the grip of a pearl-handled blade resting ever so daintily on her collarbone.
  The mermaid smiled ferally—and that was when Kumiko felt her skin break.
  That was also when she realized that she really had no qualms about dying where any avatar of Reina’s was concerned.
  Whatever brief pain Kumiko had felt up to that point, however, completely and utterly evaporated when the mermaid put its lips onto her bleeding throat…and sucked.
  Kumiko whimpered—
  And nearly passed out when the creature licked the tiny wound with exquisite care before finally giving it a little kiss.
  While Kumiko struggled to remain conscious, the mermaid brought the edge of its knife back to the euphonist’s throat—and with the delicate precision of a chef filleting a fish, slashed Kumiko’s shirt open all the way down to her waist.
  The look on the mermaid’s face at this point was absolutely predatory.
  Kumiko didn’t have the time to digest the implications of the creature’s gaze, however, because in the next moment, the mermaid had shoved the tatters of her shirt and her bra to the side and wrapped its devouring lips around a hardened nipple.
  The sensation was enough to make Kumiko nearly lose her mind.
  “Ohh…” she gasped as her back arched instinctively, her algae-encased arms reaching compulsively towards her tormentor in an effort to keep the maddening sensations going. 
  “Don’t stop…” she sighed—and nearly took her words back when the added ministrations of the mermaid’s tongue and teeth brought her to the verge of passing out yet again.
  Apparently satisfied that Kumiko was unlikely to terminate their proceedings at this point, the mermaid brought its head back up and, with a lascivious smirk, proceeded to remove the shells that covered its magnificent chest.
  As the shells dropped, so did Kumiko’s jaw.
  She managed to sear every marvellous detail into memory before finally remembering to squeeze her eyes shut. Bubbles…she wheezed as her lungs constricted from the effort of self-containment. Where are the bubbles when I need them??
  Bubbles, however, would not have sufficed to shield her from the sensation of her palms ghosting over a pair of stiffened buds.
  Because in the brief moment that Kumiko had been preoccupied, the mermaid had apparently loosened her seaweed shackles enough to press the euphonist’s hands over her bare breasts.
  At the moment of contact, the mermaid moaned. Kumiko…
  After everything Kumiko had endured, it was the sound of her name on the mermaid’s lips that finally and fully unravelled her self-restraint. As she felt the fog irrevocably close in on her, she was vaguely aware that the mermaid’s tail had given way to legs, and that those legs were now firmly locked around her back, and that a moist heat so unlike the cool waters of the ocean was grinding against her front, and that one of her hands was slowly but inexorably making its way into the pulsing center of that slick hea—
  ~~~~~
  “KUMIKO!!!”
  “GAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!” Kumiko yelled as the shock of her older sister’s voice dragged her forcibly from the submarine depths of subconscious iniquity.
  “What on earth are you doing??” Mamiko railed. “I was pounding on your door for a good five minutes before I finally decided to just barge in!!!”
  Kumiko took a few shaky breaths to steady herself.
  “I was, erm, meditating—or…I was trying to at any rate—not that I didn’t succeed—it’s just that success doesn’t last, you know—impermanence and all that jazz—and I did get pretty far—not with the mermaid, I mean—or well, maybe I did get pretty far with the mermaid too—but what I was referring to was the meditation—“
  Kumiko broke off and took another breath. She wasn’t going anywhere with this. In fact, she wasn’t entirely sure herself where she wanted to go with this.
  Mamiko stared at her doubtfully. “I’ve never tried meditating myself, but I’m pretty sure it’s not supposed to make you end up like this.”
  Kumiko thought fast. If there was one thing she’d learned from being in a jazz band, it was to improvise spectacularly.
  “Well…” she hedged nervously as she caught a glimpse of her pale face and her wild hair in the mirror across the room. “The literature does say that if you’re meditating seriously, psychological material can come up and trigger an anxiety attack…”
  Mamiko looked unconvinced. “You looked like you were having an epileptic fit more than an anxiety attack. For one thing, you were drooling. For another thing, you were gripping your pillow spastically like it was a pair of grapefruit.” Mamiko paused for a moment before adding: “You’re still gripping the pillow, by the way.”
  Kumiko squawked before releasing the bolster with a thud. “Riiight,” she conceded as her thoughts raced frantically. “The pillow’s, um, an anchor…for bringing me back…and stuff...in case I get too far into the, um, zone...because pillows are, uh, you know, tactile…” Kumiko reflexively squeezed her hands to demonstrate her point—before the sudden recollection of what she’d been “squeezing” in her meditation caused her to wring them in her lap instead.
  Mamiko looked at her suspiciously. “Why would you need a tactile anchor to bring you back? What kind of meditation were you doing anyway?”
  Kumiko squeaked. “It was a mermaid meditation!—I mean a Deep Ocean meditation!—I mean it started as the second and sort of…transitioned into the first—because, um, deep oceans have mermaids—just like they have seahorses—not that any mermaids have been found—but mysteries of the deep, you know—” Kumiko stopped. Once again, she wasn’t entirely sure where she was going with this.
  Mamiko looked at her for a several long moments before finally shaking her head in resignation. “Honestly, Kumiko, I thought you’d been straightening out the last couple of years. But episodes like this really make me worry.”
  “Ehehe,” Kumiko laughed nervously, “let’s just put it down to growing pains...” Under her breath, she muttered, “I really wouldn’t use the phrase ‘straightening out’ to describe the developments of the last few years though.”
  “Well, I’ll be here for a few more days if you feel like talking about it at some point, okay?” Mamiko patted Kumiko’s dishevelled head with uncharacteristic affection before turning around to leave.
  As soon as Mamiko had shut the door, Kumiko covered her face with the pillow she’d just dropped—and screamed.
  There was no way she could ask Mamiko for help on this one. In fact, there was no one she could ask for help—no one who could possibly understand what exactly it was that she was going through—
  Except…except for maybe one person. Kumiko paused for a moment, before finally reaching for her phone and tapping a series of numbers.
  After a few rings, a casual voice piped up: “’Sup, yo?”
  Kumiko hesitated once again—before desperation finally made her speak. “Natsuki-senpai…would you be free for coffee any time soon??”
        Notes:
          So yes, folks, this chapter explains it all: Our darling Kumiko is a chaste romantic whose anachronistically chivalrous ideals are falling apart in the face of: (1) an exceptionally horny girlfriend, and (2) her own raging hormones. Late adolescence is a BITCH. And, true to form, Kumiko has completely misinterpreted Reina's views on the matter of their physical intimacy, LOL.As always, this chapter references many earlier chapters: Chapter 3 (Codetta), where Kumiko gives her euphonium plushie to Reina and where we have the first of the plushie dialogues); Chapter 9 (Accelerando), where Reina teases Kumiko in all sorts of ways and where Kumiko’s penchant for nose bleeds is first mentioned); Chapter 18 (Armonioso), where Kumiko admits to Reina that it’s not easy being with her and where Kumiko also discovers that being separated from Reina is not a good strategy); and, finally, Chapter 20 (Scherzando), where Kumiko gets possessed after seeing Reina’s bare legs and where Reina tells Kumiko that nothing “much” actually happened). The title for this chapter is in French as opposed to all the other titles which are in Italian; I thought it seemed fitting to distinguish it given that it’s largely an imagined scene unlike all the others.Now, for those of you who are interested in trivia, large bodies of water like the ocean typically symbolize the unconscious while mermaids usually represent sexual temptation and carnal desire. In short, even Kumiko’s own subconscious is trying to raise the curtain on her obliviousness, LOL. Also, sound does travel better under water and submarine pressure does slow down bleeding. Finally, Insight Timer is a real meditation app and Deep Ocean meditations are a thing. The references to impermanence (better known in the Buddhist meditation tradition as anicca), the possibility of anxiety attacks and the utility of tactile anchors are also grounded in fact. So, in fairness to our darling Kumiko, the oblivious child has done her research. Asuka has trained her well, LOL.
      Chapter 23: Fuga
          Summary:
            In which Natsuki tries her hand at being a eupho-mama (also known as the chapter where Natsuki takes on being an immovable object in the face of an unstoppable force).
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    FUGA
   noun fu·ga \ˈfügə\
   : a complex and highly regimented contrapuntal form in music 
“Yo. Need a hand?”The figure standing by the side of the condiments counter turned around at the sound of Natsuki’s voice and waved distractedly.“I’m good with these, but could you help me find us seats?”Natsuki nodded and made a beeline for two barstools at a corner window.As soon as they’d settled in, Oumae-chan wordlessly slid Natsuki a Java Chip Frappuccino.“Whoa! My favorite! How much do I owe you?”The younger euphonist waved a hand dismissively. “It’s on me. It’s the least I can do for dragging you out here in this freezing weather.”Natsuki shook her head. “Nah, it’s good. I thought I needed some air anyway.” She took a brief sip of her drink before smacking her lips in satisfaction.“So…” Natsuki spoke as she directed a sideways glance at her junior, “what can I help you with? It sounded pretty urgent over the phone.”The younger euphonist fiddled with the stirrer of her Cinnamon Chai while Natsuki took another long pull of her coffee. Then without any warning, her junior suddenly blurted out: “I wanted to ask you for advice about sex!”And just like that, Natsuki sprayed half of the contents of her Frappuccino onto the window.As she coughed to clear her throat, Oumae-chan began to wipe the glass with a wordless efficiency that hinted at a long-standing familiarity. Natsuki wheezed. A dozen discordant responses resounded throughout her head, but the only one she managed to squeak out loud after she could finally breathe again was: “Why are you asking me?? Shouldn’t you be asking Asuka-senpai??”As soon as the words were out, Natsuki froze.For several long moments, she and Oumae-chan just stared at each other.“Forgive me,” Natsuki finally apologized at length after several images of the black-haired euphonist dispensing all manner of inappropriate erotic advice—while cackling in perverse glee—had paraded through her mind. “The temporary deprivation of oxygen to my brain prevented me from thinking clearly.”Natsuki took another small sip of her Frappuccino to stall for time. “Asuka-senpai aside, I’m sure there’s a bunch of other people you can ask for advice—”“You’re the only one I can ask!” the younger euphonist wailed. “Asuka-senpai’s liable to kill my libido by putting me on some Jedi Knight program—or worse, kill me altogether with some Hunger Games regimen—and my sister doesn’t know about me and Reina—and my parents don’t know anything either—about me and Reina, I mean, not about sex—not that I’d even ask my parents for advice about sex—”“Okay, okay, okay!” Natsuki raised her hands placatingly before her junior could start hyperventilating. “I—I get that you don’t have anyone else. Just—Just give me a couple of moments to—to, um, review what I, um, know…”“Okay,” the younger euphonist replied in a small voice, “thanks, Natsuki-senpai…”Natsuki smiled crookedly. “Don’t thank me yet. I don’t know if I’ll have the answers you’re looking for, after all. But I’ll do my best.”Then taking a deep breath to calm herself, Natsuki took stock of the situation. As shocking as Oumae-chan’s sudden request had been, she did have to admit that it was gratifying in its own way.After all, this was Oumae-chan: a girl who, for one reason or another, tended to attract geniuses who needed help in some kind of way. And now that she needed help herself, it was Natsuki whom she’d approached.And it wasn’t just any kind of help she needed—it was advice about sex.Despite herself, Natsuki felt a flush of pride bloom in her chest.So what if there were advanced techniques that she couldn’t explain to Oumae-chan by dint of being a perpetual bottom?? This was just their first consultation after all, and she figured that she could probably fill the hour by sticking to the basics of the first and second bases.As for what went on beyond that and what was needed to score a home run or two…she could probably coerce Yuuko to divulge more specific details during one of their regular “sports discussions.”With her initial anxieties allayed, Natsuki took another deep breath before turning to the younger euphonist. Despite her bravado, however, she could still feel her cheeks reddening as she asked: “So…what…what do you want to know about…about sex?”Oumae-chan paused. As Natsuki took another sip of her drink, her junior abruptly replied: “How—How do you keep yourself from having it??”And just like that, Natsuki sprayed the remaining half of her Frappuccino onto the window.As she pressed a wad of napkins to the glass, she sighed. “You should get me a much cheaper drink the next time you treat me to coffee,” she muttered. “All I’ve done so far is caffeinate the windows.”Then turning to Oumae-chan in bewilderment, Natsuki asked: “What do you mean when you say ‘how do you keep yourself from having it??’”The younger euphonist wrung her hands in distress. “I mean, how—how do you manage your—your urges?? Because, you know, they can get really…urgent.”Natsuki blinked. “But why would you even want to manage your urges?? The last I checked, there’s no way a girl can knock her girlfriend up, you know what I mean?”Oumae-chan looked at her aghast. “But—But there’s a proper order to this sort of thing! Even if—Even if you can’t get your—your girlfriend pregnant, marriage usually comes first, then sex, and then maybe kids—““Whoa!!!” Natsuki threw her hands up to derail her junior’s accelerating train of thought. “Hold your horses right there, kiddo! Are you—Are you telling me that you’re planning to marry Kousaka-san??”She’d asked the question as a joke—and was therefore absolutely floored when Oumae-chan replied without batting an eyelash: “Of course. Why? Aren’t you planning to marry Yuuko-senpai?”Natsuki opened and closed her mouth as words failed spectacularly to materialize. After a few moments, she began to rummage in her backpack.“What are you looking for?” Oumae-chan asked.“My sunglasses,” Natsuki muttered, before finally locating the pair and carefully putting them on.Her junior blinked. “Why are you wearing your shades in here??”Natsuki replied gravely: “To protect my jaded eyes from the blinding radiance of your purity.”Oumae-chan whined. “You’re not taking me seriously, Natsuki-senpai!!!”Natsuki sighed as she took the sunglasses off. “Ok, fine. Just—Just give me a moment to mourn what I lost just now.”As the younger euphonist obediently paused, Natsuki bowed her head in the silence of her mind. Goodbye, my sex guru self. Our time together was shockingly short—but surprisingly sweet. Just like any decent roll in the hay.Then pinching the bridge of her nose, Natsuki turned to her junior. “Alright. Explain something to me first: If what you want to know is the art of abstinence, what made you think that I’d be an expert??”Oumae-chan started fidgeting with her stirrer again. “Well, I know Yuuko-senpai stayed over at your place last New Year’s Eve—and all you did was, well, spring clean—and I figured that if you were able to keep your hands off her—I mean, it must have been hard given how you were both going at it at the stairwell last Halloween—so I figured that, given all that, you must know a thing or two about holding back…”As the younger euphonist trailed off, Natsuki stared at her in shock. “Wait, you think Yuuko and I—you really think we didn’t—you honestly believe we haven’t—and that we spent New Year’s Eve just spring cleaning—“At the continued sight of Oumae-chan’s earnest, entreating and expectant face, however, Natsuki abruptly shut up.For some reason, it had suddenly felt like saying anything more would be the equivalent of telling a five-year old child that Santa Claus didn’t exist.As Natsuki continued to gaze at her junior, she was hit by several emotions at once. The first was an overwhelming sympathy for Kousaka-san’s situation. The second was a heightened respect for Oumae-chan’s obliviousness. And the third was a newfound appreciation of Asuka-senpai’s surprisingly enduring parental concern.I suppose this must be how the Buddha felt when Brahmā Sahāmpati, the King of the Gods, begged him to teach the Dharma to all suffering beings on the night of his enlightenment, Natsuki wept in the silence of her mind.As she surrendered to the sudden surge of tenderness in her heart, Natsuki abruptly clasped Oumae-chan to her chest. “My poor child…” she whispered as she blinked back unexpected tears. “There, there, you can rest your weary head on my bosom…Geez, Oumae-chan, you’re such a hopeless spaz. It’s no wonder Asuka-senpai can’t let you go.”“Natsuki-senpai,” Oumae-chan croaked from somewhere underneath Natsuki’s chin. “My head doesn’t really feel weary right now, but it is beginning to hurt from your lack of a bosom…”Natsuki released the younger euphonist suddenly. “Okay,” she breathed as she wiped the back of her hand across her nose and squared her shoulders in determination. “It’s alright, Oumae-chan. I’ve got your back. So,” she took a deep breath, “what have you, um, tried…?”“I’ve tried everything!” her junior wailed as she wrung her hands in agitation once again. “I’ve tried taking cold showers. I’ve tried busying myself to the point of exhaustion. I’ve tried meditating. I’ve tried chanting the Hannya Shingyō. I’ve tried taking cold showers while chanting the Hannya Shingyō—”“You know the Hannya Shingyō?? Since when were you Buddhist??”“I’m not Buddhist!” the younger euphonist buried her face in her hands. “I’m just desperate.”“Alright,” Natsuki paused. Oumae-chan had tried at least five different things…which was five more than Natsuki herself had ever tried.Because the fact of the matter was, if Natsuki wasn’t an appropriate teacher for advanced sexual techniques, she was even less qualified as an instructor of basic abstention strategies—for the simple reason that her girlfriend didn’t understand the meaning of the word “restraint.”After all, when it came to getting what she wanted, Yuuko tended to apply the blunt force of a chainsaw.All of which simply meant that Natsuki had to get Oumae-chan to consider a different approach altogether.“Oumae-chan…” Natsuki ventured hesitantly, “I get that you’re, um, trying to maintain your ideals…but have you—have you talked to Kousaka-san about any of this at all?”“I can’t!” her junior immediately wailed. “Reina always looks so stricken and upset after our makeout sessions—and she gets so evasive when I try to find out why—that I really don’t want to risk asking her anything outright…”Natsuki blinked. “Riiight.”She had a pretty good idea why Kousaka-san would look so stricken and upset.In fact, practically everyone in the gang had a pretty good idea why Kousaka-san frequently looked stricken and upset.Unfortunately, Natsuki had never been good—and never been comfortable—with direct confrontations of any kind. She’d always been the silent and steady supporting type…and now she was finding that life-long tendency kicking in full force.“I’m afraid that I don’t have any advice to offer you right now, Oumae-chan,” Natsuki finally admitted. “But give me some time to figure something out. In the meanwhile, just, um, try visualizing Kousaka-san as...as…Jibo Kannon. It might, erm, help put you in a different frame of mind…”The younger euphonist’s amber eyes brightened. “That’s brilliant, Natsuki-senpai! That just might work. Especially if I carry out the visualization while chanting the Hannya Shingyō. See?? I knew you’d be the right person to ask!”Natsuki laughed weakly. “Ehehe…Glad I could, um, help, Oumae-chan…”It was only after she and her junior had parted ways later on that Natsuki had abruptly realized the enormity of the burden that she’d shouldered.“Oh CRAAAP…” Natsuki groaned as she pinched the bridge of her nose.In the face of Oumae-chan’s desperate entreaty, she’d completely forgotten that Asuka-senpai, Kaori-senpai and Yuuko herself had banded together to help bring an end to Kousaka-san’s silent suffering.Which meant that Natsuki had inadvertently pitted herself againt an unholy trinity by promising to support Oumae-chan in her efforts to preserve her girlfriend’s chastity.“WHAT HAVE I DONE??” Natsuki sobbed as she pounded her fist against a utility pole, oblivious to the stares of concern from the people passing by her on the street.“Okay. OKAY. You’ve got this,” she muttered as she slapped her cheeks to psyche herself up. “What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object??”Natsuki paused briefly as Asuka-senpai’s strategic brilliance, Kaori-senpai’s skillful restraint and her girlfriend’s sheer willpower came to mind—and promptly shuddered.“Who am I kidding??” she groaned out loud. “There is no object in the universe that wouldn’t yield to that force!!!”After several moments, Natsuki sighed. “Goddammit,” she muttered as Oumae-chan’s entreating face came to mind, “the things we do for love. It really is tough to be a eupho-mama.”And with that, Natsuki straightened her back and squared her shoulders. Come hell or high water, she wasn’t abandoning her junior in her time of need.
        Notes:
          I know. It's just been waaaaay too long. But I'm glad to be back. And if I'm back, it's really because of all of you readers out there who've continued to send me your kind notes of appreciation and support :'-) Just a few notes about some of the things referenced in this chapter: First, Brahmā Sahāmpati is said to be the senior deity who visited the Buddha after he attained enlightenment and encouraged him to teach the Dharma to humans. Second, the Hannya Shingyō (or Heart Sūtra in English) is the most frequently used and recited text in the entire Mahayana Buddhist tradition. Third, Jibo Kannon is the "Compassionate Mother Kannon" or the version of Kannon that became popular in Japan when suppressed Christians used the image to represent the Virgin Mary with Christ the Child.At any rate, I hope you're all doing reasonably well during these challenging times and I look forward to continuing our journey together!
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Rhapsody in E series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (1025)
  Comments
          Tohrin07, bou0010, mochiplease, shizuma12, shoe_box, MightyWolf1029, Enarec, Katsuragi_Triss, HeliosRozen6, linkki, tuurtledove, Y07, gayheroine, Deanula, Slvr, LadyOfHresvelg, Mossheart810, Goober36, nocoolname3, CursedLily, loveprerecorded, lovebowserjr, gh0stlydreams, diva_tox, combinationlock, Saga_Darklight, eclaircie, Asteroid12, Soldierasholler, Johhn_Doe, SixRay, GangstaCrow, Interested_Party, archiemouse, nolongersmiles, DYWYPI, Tekketsu08, Bertfinkle, ethorns, pikgami, silentlyjudgingyou, MICROH2CO3, captainyousoro, Penguinfluffy12138, beatleian, Basingsaying, KirklandPurifiedWater, RoyalBard, amphetamines, TY_TK, 
               and 199 more users
            Lynt, Jojo_Ana, BlackLabyrinth07, DecrepitRoyalty, Nemrut, Cromalin20, TaiTomachek, CelticCrow17, RetroHeim, cheesymeg, VNVdarkangel, NeeineArts, Gabythenerd, w1svthibikeuphon, Darratato, Akio_Chan, WigolsHuion, boos_clues, StargazerXLIV, Nightsky203, Robin313, bxmbi_0, Firestar3271, Norwols, MimiTAT, Karmisa, snowrites, UrsaTempest, perseidspeak, fluffeupho, Lyds, ftx777x, misguiddghost, Delskitty3, kyasarin, Lucytop, CarpeTigris, keanuatron, super_nerd666, 42Gera42, XxChronOblivionxX, badwolfkaily, Zapcrictifier, Drebom, Aquamarineazure, TheGreyLoner, Imoshen88, Abyss007, Licht_Hraefn, aeveee, faintresonance, thunderblaze, cyberhobis, NicoMakis2, quirky_blue, njwdreamer, CuriousityIsKillingMe, milkymeats, ScratchMcGuffin, r00tless, Kassogtha, Nekomimi_Momo, booknerd4, PR_R, Pinkwonders, PJOHOORR, sometimeslifejustbelikethat, Aesix, deamrose10, ChatKills, kirindie, RomanTribune, koylis, roaringroa, CMendio0114, theamberissubtle, Religion0, antonyforcleopatra, Melonhead, ZeppelinInFlames, TctyaDDK, draugear, IHaveNoLife0607, Bael, pinqqou, wokeboke, Rorb_Lalorb, YuriKei, ToniDShipper, freyjaudur, creampuffs, Irish99, inventeredison2, Xsarras, venovark, puellamagikarp, rayca, yueisms, alua, Infinitum, happytohelp, Pseudonym_Quill, scribblers, ShoeJacket, MeasuredKindness, H1Corona213, Cynthia_Elph, desirulz123, Tiies, ISwearIJustLikeToRead, agayshark, IamGayandaSinner, rinage, wiplod, Freexhugsx, Crane_Ichabod, xLaShay, OTrizy, Vixtra, Melphis_Amekia, RedAxel, wayneducknewton, Animeuser, Rocshana, Shellsh0cker, SaboteurGG, Patthewalls, bodhisrook, Baxter54132, Cephlobellum, Mishacchi, NeniioN, SubZero, wn1miyamoto, ArtemisYuri, ForFucksSake22, middledumpling, UmbraOfTheDuende, dizz1337, togeprii, LuckyHarm, Deeep_sea, SophieAyase, Charlinne9876, OnesixBanana, walkingkettle, boda62, Xinora, lt_unicorn, RedSpades_and_BlackDiamonds, Buttgoblin, Sawsbuck21, karukaro, petrichor_sky, Vargenston, smokolog, sferwn, nbop, emotionalhuman, carrie4420, kkaengie, grawity, hakaze99, legsanddairy, daniyasu, yurianimeotaku, keianh, Walking_Round, nishmonkey, shireidesu, annieedison, raerita10, NopeZone, FezDisturbed, bigboybigby, vodkaattwoam, writeitonme, frozenmango, Okamitaretsu, zaa_woorld, ShootIsTheWay, SuaveSleuth, Bloke, Aoichan1719, hinootora, windfIowers, homunerd, Greenerin, Sparks52, Rose_of_the_Wind, vanished, Rinforzando, nozoomie, t_dactyl, niigoki, Vertumn, mistyheartrbs, an9e and thegadgetfish
             as well as 
          616 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 17 18 Next →
                    thegadgetfish
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 12
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 04:26AM EDT 
        Really enjoy your writing, and this is really interesting so far! Can't wait for more.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 06:59AM EDT 
        Thank you :') It's a bit tricky writing about these two because what I keep getting into my head are vignettes rather than a single clear narrative. Right now, I'm juggling about four different episodes that belong to this overall arc. I'm hoping to post at least one soon!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    an9e
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 12
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:32AM EDT 
        this is greeat — i really love the idea that reina inspires kumiko to be better and vice versa. and the way you incorporate music into your fics are amazing!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:02AM EDT 
        Aww, thank you. :'-) At this point, I don't think Kumiko even considers what she's doing as getting better or improving herself per se—she really just wants to stay by Reina's side and she's decided she'll do whatever it takes. As for incorporating musical metaphors into the story, it's part of what makes writing immensely enjoyable for me. :-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    an9e
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:07AM EDT 
        ah, i agree! i feel like right now she's just deciding to stick beside reina but along the way she might find what she wants to do to be special herself while letting reina be special in her own way as well!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:29AM EDT 
        Without preempting things too much, Kumiko will become special in this story even if it'll never be her primary intention the way it is with Reina. :-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    an9e
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 08:12AM EDT 
        !! i am totally behind this!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 08
                                                 Oct 2016
                                                 11:26AM EDT 
        Hahaha! Thank you for your unabashed support! X-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    an9e
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 08
                                                 Oct 2016
                                                 03:30PM EDT 
        anytime!! (๑•̀ㅂ•́)و✧
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    mistyheartrbs
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 12
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:41AM EDT 
        i'm going to be honest - i teared up at this. the part where you described the way kumiko's life when reina left was so beautifully written, so raw and honest, that i was just about ready to cry. i look forward to more of these wonderful stories, i guess that's all i can say on the matter.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:06AM EDT 
        Thank you so much for your kind words! People who've gone through a depressive episode will recognize Kumiko's feelings as part of a mild depression. She doesn't realize it herself, mostly because she doesn't realize the full extent of her feelings for Reina. But that's exactly what we'll be exploring in the stories to come. :-D
            Last Edited Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 07:53AM EDT 
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    niigoki
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 14
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 11:01PM EDT 
        I am?? Bewildered to say the least, the amount of emotion you put in your words is something I always try to achieve whenever I write these two, and yours is so... AMAZINGLY well done, you have truly inspired me to write more. Thank you so much for that, and I am so so so excited for the rest of this series. Truly, this was a masterpiece.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 15
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 06:00AM EDT 
        Oh thank you, thank you, thank you :'-) It's lovely when another writer just GETS it and also tells you they were inspired. It's the moment that makes all the time and effort that goes into writing worth it. I'm very much looking forward to the other stories that will be coming from your end! X-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    FairSappho
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 19
                                                 Sep 2016
                                                 08:36PM EDT 
        Wonderful!!! I love this so far. Can't wait to read more!!!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 08
                                                 Oct 2016
                                                 11:26AM EDT 
        Thank you so very much! :'-D I do hope you enjoy the latest chapter!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    SophieAyase
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 16
                                                 Feb 2017
                                                 07:16PM EST 
        Interlochen!! I grew up sort of near there and almost went there for high school actually. My parents took me along to a lot of concerts there over the years... Most notably Shari Lewis, who took a photo with 3-year-old me and gave me a Lamb Chop finger puppet.Random I know but that reference made me so happy.
            Last Edited Thu 16
                                                 Feb 2017
                                                 07:23PM EST 
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Fri 17
                                                 Feb 2017
                                                 05:58AM EST 
        Amazeballs! X-D That's an uncanny coincidence—what with there being a good number of excellent music schools in the United States :-D I'm happy that the reference—as random as it was—made this story even more enjoyable for you. Thank you, Viva! 
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
              Torchbright
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 07
                                                 May 2017
                                                 10:22PM EDT 
        Didn't realize I never commented on the first chapter OTL. So nice to go back to the beginning and see how different Kumiko was before her journey thru the other chapters
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 08
                                                 May 2017
                                                 03:40AM EDT 
        Heeey Torchbright! Yaaaz, our little brown-haired girl really has grown up, hasn't she? :'-D She's still got some stuff to sort out though, hahaha.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Shellsh0cker
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 03
                                                 Jun 2017
                                                 04:43PM EDT 
        "And just like that, life became simple once again. After all, getting into music school was a straightforward if difficult affair, involving only the clear-cut calculus of diligence and effort, patience and persistence."Holy crap I love your prose so freaking much.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 04
                                                 Jun 2017
                                                 09:28AM EDT 
        I have to say, having a reader who simply delights in how language is used is marvelous :'-D Thank you for absolutely making my week!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
              Lua
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 20
                                                 Jul 2017
                                                 10:30PM EDT 
        I'm reading it all over again.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 13
                                                 Aug 2017
                                                 11:35PM EDT 
        I'm sooo sorry for taking a million years to get back to you. Life got a little insane, sigh. At any rate, I'm about to put up a new chapter!!! I hope it makes up for the delay :'-) Looking forward to hearing from you again!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Melphis_Amekia
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 29
                                                 Nov 2017
                                                 05:44PM EST 
        I decided to start reading over from the start after your newest upd8 and also comment on each of the vignettes as I read them since I do love this fic a lot, more than I thought I did, and am always eagerly awaiting new chapters xDYou really do a very good job writing Kumiko here, bringing to light both her indecisivness but also how she *would*, in the end, decide to follow her dreams(in this case, Reina) even if she was unsure of what would happen in the future. I really love that part particularly here, and also your Asuka is perfect &lt;3
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Fri 01
                                                 Dec 2017
                                                 05:20AM EST 
        I am SOOO stoked to have you as a reader, Melphis :'-) And I LOOOVE that you're actually taking the time and effort to reread everything and share your thoughts! I don't think any writer could wish for more.This opening chapter was critical for setting the tone of Rhapsody in E, because this is where I provide the context for the Kumiko who emerges in the rest of the story. In Hibike! Euphonium, we see Kumiko evolve as a character as a result of the intimacy she develops with Reina in Season 1 and then with Asuka in Season 2. I wanted to keep exploring this "evolving" Kumiko. So in this chapter, even though she's still portrayed as that indecisive girl we first encountered in early Season 1, she's much, much clearer about what she wants and certainly far readier to pursue it.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Melphis_Amekia
              on Chapter 1
            Fri 01
                                                 Dec 2017
                                                 11:08AM EST 
        Yes, exactly ! She might be indecisive but damn she's trying to figure herself out properly and is a lot more sure where to go xD
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    MeasuredKindness
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 03
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 07:23AM EDT 
        Oh my god!! Excellent chapter! I freaking love of your writing, every chapter is like a part of a song with repeating elements. A rhapsody indeed. This story is a masterpiece!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 03
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 08:57AM EDT 
        Thank you, MeasuredKindness &lt;'-) That's a really sweet compliment! I do use repetition a lot as a literary device and I'm tickled pink that it's something you enjoy! I look forward to hearing more of your thoughts on the other chapters! &lt;-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    MeasuredKindness
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 04
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 02:47AM EDT 
        Of course. Apologies if I've never reviewed before, I was occupied. I've actually been following this story from way, way back. I think I found it when it only has about 13 or 14 chapter. I was intrigued by the title at first, I am not musically inclined or anything, but since most stories in the fandom was music themed or at the very least, related I was curious how this story will play with the show's inherent musicality so I took a look. I came looking for a story to pass idle time but I founs gold. Lo and behold, I've been snagged by your impeccable writing style and story ever since. Everything is on theme, the title, the chapters, the narrative style and the story as a whole. Such a shame the archive only allows one kudos per user, I would've given you a thousand. Ah. This is such a gem! Thank you for sharing and I'll be sure to wait eagerly for another chapter from you. You'll be hearing more gushing from me.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 04
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 08:25AM EDT 
        Again, I'm floored by your kindness (no pun intended, LOL). I do look forward to hearing more of your thoughts as the story progresses :'-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    MeasuredKindness
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 06
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 10:30PM EDT 
        Hah! No, it's the only thing I can do in exchange for your hard work! Keep it up!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 10
                                                 Aug 2019
                                                 04:48AM EDT 
        And...it means a LOT to me &lt;-D Thank you!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    CurlyHairedWookie
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 11
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 01:50AM EST 
        I've never watched this anime, but it's you. So here I go!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 11
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 02:33AM EST 
        BUT, BUT, BUT YOU HAVE TO WATCH IT!If only because I wrote this story to adhere so closely to the series' canon that I don't know if it even makes sense to a reader who's never watched the show. I mean, I know it will technically make sense, but I wrote it under the explicit assumption that the reader has the background needed to get all the allusions, references and private jokes...And yes...I do know that you've got a stupendously long watch list...Having said that, the series is truly beautiful to watch and is one of Kyoto Animation's finest gems :'-D (Wrangles hands.) But anyway, if you still manage to enjoy this story without having seen the series, then yey...?
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    CurlyHairedWookie
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 11
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:24AM EST 
        Honestly, so far I'm managing to infere a lot. The rest is flavor that I'm kinda picking up from context clues and Wiki raiding.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 11
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:46AM EST 
        That works :-D I think I done dat before.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    DecrepitRoyalty
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 20
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:14AM EST 
        I need to preface this comment with the context that I have actually reread this entire piece multiple times (mostly over the time of one full day and sometimes starting late going until it was almost morning) and I /never/ tire of it. I first read this whilst I was on vacation with my family across Europe last year in June, and let me tell you, I /could not/ put this story down, even while I was on a train to Venice. (I /did/ enjoy my time on vacation, but this was so good I /needed/ to know what would happen next). I would spend so much time on the train just begging the slow wifi to give me the next chapter, binge that chapter, and repeat until I was off the train... Then repeat that on the train back to the place we were staying in Rome and, because of the intense heat that kept us indoors during the day, kept going until I was caught up with the latest update at the time. This story is written so beautifully. From the immersive atmosphere to the witty banter to the characterization, there's absolutely nothing that screams that this wasn't written with care and impressive control. All the angst has massive bite, the sweet moments melt the heart, and the comedy easily summons a genuine smile /at least/. It took me so long to be able to sit down to finally give my thoughts for each of these chapters, because it deserves at least this much, but I was a bit intimidated to do it cause I knew I have so much to say. After I first read this, I /knew/ I had to reread it in order to get my thoughts straight (unlike this fic, ha!) and ended up rereading it three more times. I've reread it too many times to count, so I hope my comments for each chapter seem as sincere as I know them to be. This is one of my favorite fics of all time and I appreciate the fact that you've shared this work with us. : )
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    DecrepitRoyalty
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 20
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:22AM EST 
        So, I took the liberty to make this as authentic as possible, for I went several months without rereading this so I could experience a fraction of the magic it was to read this for the first time, but man, reading the first chapter still gets me excited for the future ones. One of my favorite devices that you use is the repetition of certain lines. It really makes a solid impact, and I remember the specific line you used in this one that'll parallel a future scene. It's all so good!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 25
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 01:43AM EST 
        First of all, allow me to apologize for NOT doing what I said I would do, which is to respond to one or two of your comments at a time! I literally just started postgraduate studies three days ago and it's been CRAZY %-/So yes, I STILL fully intend to respond to each of your comments, but it will happen more slowly than I originally imagined (sob).At any rate: I'm SOO happy that you enjoy how I repeat certain lines :'-) It's a device that I've taken from my own love of music (i.e., the use of motifs) and integrated into my writing. So if you read my stories in other fandoms, you'll see me use the same device in those pieces as well. Of course, it works particularly well in Hibike!Euphonium given that the series IS about music. Honestly, there's a strong overlap in my passion for language and music. Much of my writing is driven by the need to hear a certain musicality in the words (i.e., cadence, rhythm, etc.) and I'm so happy to find a reader like you who's managed to catch on to those sorts of subtleties! &lt;3
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 22
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:15AM EST 
        First of all, I just want to say that...Oh dangit. I. HAVE. NO. WORDS.The utter generosity and sweetness of this note—and ALL the notes you've sent for each chapter—have just been unprecedented in all the years I've written fanfiction :'-) I've never had a reader take THIS much time and effort to painstakingly write and share what they've appreciated or loved in a story. As woefully inadequate as it is, all I can say is: THANK YOU. From the bottom of my heart.I do plan to reply to each of your comments, by the way. But I'll do it slowly, perhaps responding to one or two comments at a time :'-) This sort of gesture deserves a matching degree of attentiveness and care and so I hope you don't mind if I take my time savoring the process of replying. Thank you once again...and I feel like I won the fanfiction prize lottery with all your appreciation X-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 26
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 01:18AM EDT 
        I always love your clip-notes at the end of every chapter, in this and every of your stories; you always gain new knowledge thanks to that.Now I see why Reina went to America (read it first at Asuka’s wedding).  Talk about being fateful to a promise, to a person.  In retrospect, this was Kumiko’s way to improve herself, by doing so reaching for the same goal Reina aims: to be special.Well, that is all for tonight, will continue tomorrow.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 26
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 03:59AM EDT 
        I'm happy to hear that my chapter End Notes are appreciated just as much here as they are elsewhere :'-D Thank you for your kind words!And yes! Kumiko's definitely off on a mission to reinvent herself for Reina's sake X-D Wooohoooo!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 26
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 01:51PM EDT 
        Those and the people, real or fictional, that get involved in each story.  Currently reading “Ironia” and I was pleased to see Alan Turing in it, that piece of work its becoming a class of World History for those who don’t know about them or just have hear of them.I’ll leave my review on that chapter soon.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 27
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 10:14PM EDT 
        HAHAHA!Yes, other readers have said the same as well :-D They've told me that reading Amor Enim Vult feels like doing a history class sometimes, LOL.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 1
            Mon 27
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 10:58PM EDT 
        One I don't want to miss
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 29
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 03:52AM EDT 
        You are MUCH too kind :'-)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    mistyheartrbs
              on Chapter 2
            Sat 08
                                                 Oct 2016
                                                 03:32PM EDT 
        "Things got really hairy during the Hunger Games episode." oh my god that line was perfect, honestly this entire fic was perfect. you nailed everyone's personalities /so well/, i could honestly see this as an epilogue to the show. wonderful work, truly.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 10
                                                 Oct 2016
                                                 06:58AM EDT 
        You're much too kind :'-D Actually, the second chapter was SO much fun to write. One of the things I love about this show is how well developed the characters are. It makes writing them an absolute pleasure. Watch out for the next chapter: I'll be taking the point of view of an unexpected character!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
              Torchbright
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 10
                                                 May 2017
                                                 02:26AM EDT 
        Oh gosh, the two conversations Kaori has with Haruka and Asuka, regarding her feelings for Asuka and how she acts towards Asuka.... all bring to mind that one scene in season 2 when Kaori suddenly swoops down to tie Asuka' s shoe in a weirdly voyeuristic-for-the-audience (and kumiko) moment OTL OTL OTL Def one of my fave chaps
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 10
                                                 May 2017
                                                 03:04AM EDT 
        Thank you Torchbright :'-D This was one of my most favorite scenes to write too! I've always loved Kaori as a character and I hated how contemptuously Asuka would treat her at times in the anime. So this chapter's about Kaori growing up and getting back at Asuka in a way. I don't get too many occasions in this story to focus on their sub-plot, so I may just use the sequel to cover that instead. X-D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Melphis_Amekia
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 29
                                                 Nov 2017
                                                 06:02PM EST 
        I mean, I said it last chapter, but you're writing a really good Asuka here, exactly as she would act and do things even if she's still hiding herself from everyone else to various degrees. I'm kind of re-experiencing the fic with fresh eyes here, really, since it *has* been a while since I read it...(although I'm personally undecided between Haruka/Kaori, Asuka/Kaori and Haruka/Kaori/Asuka as ships cause each has their merits and I love each character equally, but... dunno how to explain, really tbh, I am just undecided)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Fri 01
                                                 Dec 2017
                                                 05:26AM EST 
        Asuka tends to write herself, to be honest. While I've struggled with various parts of this story at different points in time, Asuka's always been "easy" to portray (I credit KyoAni for bringing this incredibly complex character to life in such a vivid way!). As for your personal conflict over the Haruka point of the AsuHaruKaori triangle, I kind of get it. Only because I sometimes find myself speculating about the AsuKumi ship (the only reason I don't pursue it is because I fell in love with the KumiRei and AsuKaori ships first!).
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    DecrepitRoyalty
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 20
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 05:37AM EST 
        Damn, I was just talking about the paralleled scenes and I was smacked with one I forgot about at the end there with Asuka and Kaori! Well, I suppose that's the fun of revisiting the fic after so long, hahahah! I really love the chemistry between all the characters, especially with how it flows between the chapters. It really shows off your skills as a writer, the scenes don't feel out of place and, even if someone was reading this for the first time, would feel that these scenes have a definite purpose for the future. This build up was incredibly interesting to me when I first read it, because the story was definitely advertised as a romance, but starts with the characters' growth in both their skills, relationships, and maturity. I was so use to people who just dug into the romance since they use the source material as the foundation to get to the sweet stuff (which is perfectly fine and entertaining in its own right), that seeing this, where there's a legitimate story to be told with romance at the heart (ha!) and the face of it, is quite refreshing!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 26
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 08:27AM EST 
        I love that you deeply appreciate my focus on the characters' growth in this story :'-) It really comes from my conviction that two people can't be in a sustainable relationship if they don't, well, work on their own stuff first. With Kaori, for instance, there's just NO WAY she'd even get to the starting line with Asuka if she didn't get over her fundamental insecurity first. As for Asuka, I really felt that she needed to be with someone who could hold her own against her and NOT get intimidated by the sheer force of her personality. As you can probably tell, I have a TREMENDOUS love for these two that matches my fondness for Kumiko and Reina. It's just that there's so much more material where the latter two are concerned, LOL.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    freyjaudur
              on Chapter 2
            Tue 03
                                                 Mar 2020
                                                 07:26PM EST 
        I wanted Asuka to have a happy ending too, though I'm not sure what exactly constitutes HER happiness. Girl is confusing af lol. And Kaori.., I will never forget that one scene where she tied off Asuka's shoelaces and Kumiko saw something in Asuka's expression that is definitely NOT good. I feel sorry for her (Kaori) so I want her to be happy too because as Yuuko says, she's an angel XD
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Tue 03
                                                 Mar 2020
                                                 10:50PM EST 
        I am an absolutely SUCKER for AsuKaori so I'm as invested in their happiness as you are X-D And yasss...Asuka is one tough bird to crack X-D She's funny as hell to write though, LOL.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 2
            Sun 26
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 02:45PM EDT 
        Oh man, I love your Star Wats analogy with Asuka and Kumiko, hopefully neither will turn into the Dark Side.  I agree with Kumiko about living with failure and not regret, how could you move forward if you are not willing to challenge yourself to do so.  For Kumiko, her goal is to reach the same place as Reina; for Asuka, a chance to take back something her mother tried to strip away from her, and for Kaori, an opportunity to claim her rightful spot next to Asuka as equals.Do not worry, that mystical place known as Mt. Daikichi its engraved in my heart because I have been there four times, Spring 2016, last day of 2017, first day of 2018 and Spring 2019.  That is why Hibike Euphonium has become an essential part of my love for anime, and especially fanfiction.  The view is amazing, Kyoto Animation did it justice.And the piece goes on…
            Last Edited Sun 26
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 02:55PM EDT 
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 27
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 10:17PM EDT 
        You totally hit the nail on the head! You've probably noticed this in Amor Enim Vult as well, but character development and growth are supremely important to me. This chapter sets the stage for how Asuka, Kaori and Kumiko are all growing/trying to grow in their own ways :'-) Thank you for sharing that you noticed all that!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 2
            Mon 27
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 11:01PM EDT 
        I always try to inmerse myself in each story I read, sharing my views and perceptions
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    BleedingBlade
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 29
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 03:53AM EDT 
        It's very generous of you, actually :'-) Thoughtful comments like the ones you make mean so much to writers like me!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Saga_Darklight
              on Chapter 2
            Wed 29
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 01:11PM EDT 
        I'm glad to hear that.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 17 18 Next →
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
