      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: lex m/m (mature OR explicit)
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               Multi
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationship:
               Ashido Mina/Bakugou Katsuki/Kaminari Denki/Kirishima Eijirou/Sero Hanta
              Characters:
               Bakugou KatsukiKaminari DenkiAshido MinaKirishima EijirouSero Hanta
              Additional Tags:
               TentaclesMildly Dubious ConsentTransformationpro hero auEstablished RelationshipBottom Bakugou Katsuki
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the Kinktober 2020-Bottom Bakugou series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-02Words:1944Chapters:1/1Comments:10Kudos:128Bookmarks:6Hits:1180
      Bits and Blobs
      GanglyLimbs
          Summary:
              During a villain fight, four of the Bakuquad get turned into giant blobs of various colors. It's up to Katsukit to take care of them. Which might be a bit more pleasurable than he originally thought.
  Notes:
      Hello! Kinktober is upon us. These probably won't be posted every single day, but I will be writing 30 stories, it just might take a while, lol. I hope you enjoy and happy October!
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
        Work Text:
  Katsuki pinches the bridge of his nose. “How on earth did this fucking happen?” 
  His idiots couldn’t answer of course, though that doesn’t stop them from trying. Little blubbering noises, like they’re gurgling, is all he gets. A weird slightly sticky tentacle pats him on the face.
  “Um,” the medic near them says. 
  Katsuki waves him off. “Don't worry about it. I’ll take them home, the villain said it’ll wear off in a day or two.” 
  Of course, he only said that after Katsuki beat him to a pulp. No one turns his partners into giant weird gelatin blobs and gets away with it without a scratch on them. 
  The medic nods, eyes still glued to his partners. Katsuki can’t really blame him. It is a bit memorizing watching them wiggle and jiggle and wave in the wind. 
  Katsuki looks up into the sky. “Fuck my life.” 
  ~
  Katsuki manages to get them home, though he has to borrow a news van to get them all back in one trip. Luckily, they can squish together, though Eijirou’s large form still requires him to push and shove them all in. 
  He’s sure the news people got some fucking amazing footage of that and will be running 
    that 
  embarrassment instead of his battle against the villain. Because of fucking course they would, the fuckers, always trying to ruin his image. 
  But that’s not his priority right now. 
  Right now, he needs to figure out what to do with these fucking blobs. They kind of just flop around the large studio apartment the five rent together, wet slapping sounds echoing around the room. Like fish flopping out of water. 
  Eijirou is the largest, a giant black blob with large red splotches. Sometimes tentacles grow from his form to drag himself around the room. He’s the most active of the blobs, his new form not enough to combat his boundless energy. 
  The nest largest is Hanta, another black blob with white stripes zigzagging throughout its form. It mostly chills near the couch. Katsuki thinks he might be watching tv. 
  Denki and Mina are pretty similar in size, with Denki only being a smidge bigger. Denki is bright yellow and Katsuki rolls his eyes at the fact that his stupid black zigzag survived the transformation, large and bold on the right side of it’s form. 
  Mina is just a horrifying, bright neon pink. Like the kind that makes Katsuki want to claw out his eyes. Her two little horns still stick up out of the top. Both of them switch from shimmering their way through the apartment and wobbling next to Hanta. 
  Katsuki tries to go about his day, keeping one eye on them while he cooks dinner. He isn’t sure if they can eat but he figures it couldn’t hurt to make them something just in case. 
  He almost startles when a tentacle wraps its way around his waist. Looking down reveals that it’s Eijirou. Katsuki grimaces and stiffly leans down to pat his blobby form. It wiggles with each pat. Katsuki hopes that this isn’t hurting him. 
  “You four better be fucking ok,” he mumbles, the top of his ears going pink. 
  Eijirou wiggles on his own, followed by Denki, Mina, and Hanta. Katsuki takes that to mean they’re ok. 
  “Good,” he nods. Then he points his fingers threatening at them. “If you bring this up after you turn back, I’m fucking blowing you through the wall.” 
  They wiggle again. He’s pretty sure they’re making fun of him. 
  Sighing, he turns back to the stove. Eijirou keeps his tentacle around Katsuki’s waist. 
  ~
  Katsuki eats dinner. The others…” eat” dinner too. Or he assumes so. They sort of just stuff the food inside their body and Katsuki watches it dissolve. 
  It’s horrifying if Katsuki is being honest. 
  After dinner, Katsuki moves the slime party to the living room and turns on the tv, switching it something dumb and fun that he knows the squad loves to poke fun at. “I’m going to get some paperwork done,” he tells them, ignoring the way they seem to be wiggling in disapproval. Snorting at the idea, he rolls his eyes. “You fuck should be thanking me, I’m forced to do your fucking paperwork.” 
  They wiggle harder. 
  “Whatever.” He flaps his hand at them. “Don’t get yourself hurt or I’ll kill you.” 
  He turns around to get a move on with said paperwork when a tentacle around his waist stops him. 
  He frowns, looking down to see that it’s Eijirou’s again. And then Mina joins it, wrapping around the other side. 
  He looks over his shoulder to glare at them. “What the fuck to do you think you’re doing.” 
  The blobs, of course, only wiggle. 
  Hanta and Denki join the other two, pulling him closer to them. “What-” he starts to asks, stumbling over his feet, unsure what the fuck they are doing. 
  And then Denki shoves a tentacle in his mouth. 
  Katsuki chokes on it, which only seems to excite Denki more as he wiggles it deeper down. Katsuki goes to wrap his fingers around the slimy appendage to pull it out, but two more (he thinks Hanta and Eijirou?) wrap around his wrists, pulling them away, stretching him out. 
  He tries to burn them with the force of their glare but they just fucking wiggle at him. 
  And then they knock the legs out from beneath him. Katsuki gurgles as he falls, but is caught, tentacles wrapping around his entire body. He tries to wiggle out, but it’s no use. 
  They have him caught. He knows he could probably use his quirk, explode himself free but...he doesn’t want to hurt his idiots. 
  Even if they’re being very 
    horny
   idiots. 
  His clothes are stripped from him, as much as they can be. Which really means his shirt is just pushed up while his pants and underwear hang around his ankles. His hands are strapped behind his back and his legs are pushed up to his chest, so he’s basically folded in half.
  He glares down at them, but he can’t tell if they notice it or not. They seem too busy molesting him. 
  With as bond as he is and seeing that he hasn’t tried to break himself free yet, the blobs seem to take that as permission to go crazy. 
  So many tentacles...he isn’t sure where they all come from. But at least four move to play with his chest, rubbing over his nipples, getting them slick with whatever the blobs secret. Katsuki tries not to be affected by it but he can’t fully stop the moans that slip out, vibrating around the tentacle in his mouth. 
  The blobs seem to like that, vibrating faster, more slick dripping from them. Katsuki’s eyes flutter. Heat is building in the pit of his stomach and his cock throbs. Shit, the slick must have something to it. There is absolutely 
    no
   way he’s getting horny over these fucks molesting him.
  No. No fucking way. 
  Of course, the idiot blobs notice, several tentacles wrapping around his dick, stroking him. He tries to struggle free, absolutely 
    refusing 
  to allow them to get to him. Fuck them. 
  Oh...oh shit, fuck 
    him
  . 
  They move around his body, hitting all his weak spots. His nipples, in between his pecs, wrapping around his neck, fucking his mouth, running through his hair. They get him hard, get him dripping, spread his legs wide to suck on the inside of his thighs. 
  He’s always been powerless against them. That doesn’t change, even with this quirk. 
  When they start to rub against his hole, he’s mortified to find his hips thrusting back, trying to get them to push in. 
  They vibrate, laughing at him he’s sure. They play with him, teasing around the rim of his hole, making him wet before they even start to push in. 
  And then they push in. Not one at a time, oh no. All four push one of their tentacles in, at the same time. 
  Katsuki arches, eyes going wide, mouth opening even more, to allow the tentacle in his mouth to slide down even deeper inside his throat. He’s stretched open so wide, the tentacles not even slowing down. They push in deeper and deeper, like they’re trying to burrow their way inside him. 
  They are helped with the slick they produce, wetting the way. He whines around the tentacle, shifting his hips. He doesn’t know if he’s asking for more or to...  fucking no, he knows. He knows he’s asking for more. 
  He can’t fucking deny them 
    anything
  . 
  They seem to get excited. He thinks Eijirou (the tentacle feels the biggest, feels like it’s expanding the more it pushes inside of him) and Mina (who twists just right to get at his prostate) start thrusting faster, ramming into him like the impatient fucks they are. 
  Hanta, who has a well of patience from dealing with their shenanigans, still pushes in slowly, like he’ll spend all night fucking Katsuki. 
  Denki switches, pushing in hard and fast one second, and then slowing down the next. 
  Katsuki can’t keep up with all the ways they’re fucking him open. His cock drips onto his stomach, multiple tentacles still stroking him. When he looks down at it, mildly interested to see how red it is, his eyes widen at the state of his stomach. It’s swelled from how much is stuffed into him, how many tentacles they are fucking into him. 
  He whines again and they vibrate more. That makes Katsuki buck. Shit, he didn’t think about what would happen with them if they vibrated fucking 
    inside
   him. 
  Pleasure overwhelms his senses. 
  There’s the briefest pause. And then they all start vibrating harder. Katsuki cries out, body withering. He feels out of control, like they’re going to vibrate him out of his own goddamn body. 
  Fat tears slide down his face. The four idiots continue to assault his body, his nipples red and sore, neck and thighs marked up. His hole feels like it’s gapping as they pulse inside of him. 
  His orgasm takes him completely by surprise, his mind too scattered to realize that the heat inside of him had boiled over, that he was shaking, that his balls had drawn up. He doesn’t realize at all, is completely blindsided by his cock giving one angry throb before he’s cumming all over himself. 
  He goes tense, but that does not stop their assault on him. They fuck him through the orgasm, as long as it seems to be. 
  Katsuki sags into their hold, mind starting to float away, not paying attention to how they all speed up. He barely recognizes the way they still and how his stomach expands even more as they fill him. 
  A tentacle swipes across his forehead and Katsuki blinks up at it. He feels like they’re all staring at him and he gives them a weak smile in return. They still faintly pulse inside him, but other than that they all still, even the tentacle in his mouth. They allow him to rest. 
  But the rest can only continue for a few minutes. And then the tentacle in his mouth starts to move again, pushing deeper into his throat till he gags around it. They pull their tentacles out, fluid dripping from him, but only for a couple seconds till more tentacles fill him. 
  Katsuki wants to ask “really?” but he doesn’t have to. He knows these horny fuckers have the stamina to last all night. 
  A tentacle brushes against his bruised prostate. He jerks and shivers.
  ….He’ll allow it for today. Tomorrow he’ll give them hell. 
  If he can stand. 
  Notes:
  If you want, come check out my twiter (18+)-Ganglylimbs
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the Kinktober 2020-Bottom Bakugou series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (10)
  Comments
          Sebastian_White, bridgevil, Flyin43, dehumanized, SqueeFreak, Lux_in_tenebris_777, Nitefall, SpikeTheCat, dragons_are_level_100_geckos, amekan, Nairim21, MilkteaT, Adreavian, Sad_Suggestion, ZocoAvaf, AnisaNiaLek, Ashes_ink, nikki7250, bakuboy609, Lannbam, theumbrellastealer, kiyoreadsbooks, Frogcultmember, Gakifang, Eeveebattler4, FantasyCandy93, strangedreamerr, Natasha335, PaperwhiteZiva, AnonymousBTSARMY, QueenCheshireWolf, Taymethis, Tiah_Turtle38, AceKingQueen, Mxrigxld, Mizu_Raisu, MiniMised, EnsignCelery, HyacinthOpal, Hi_angel023, nepanda, squidney_crosby, StarlightPhoenix, Spcao3, Keeper_of_Unicornia, doubled_helix, Thief_King_Bakura, Handful_O_Lizards, JadeIcing, jusska, 
               and 26 more users
            spideygguk, Idkeiadh_BakuBB4, SpiritRider, icythottt, katsu_kitten_883, itsmyusualday, KenniBoi, breadtime, screamingbees, muu, DrJLecter, seokangel, vasiadiadein, ActualRobot13, Addalittlegay, Emy2110, AdoringlyDoris, Phoebs, BookwormGirl23, 3AM_And_No_End_In_Sight, Unformed_puppet, Dam_Nobody_Followed_The_Spiders, DiamondWinters, exousia, ariadice_ms18 and wheelthrown
             as well as 
          52 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
