      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Graphic Depictions Of Violence
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               文豪ストレイドッグス | Bungou Stray Dogs
              Relationship:
               Dazai Osamu/Nakahara Chuuya (Bungou Stray Dogs)
              Characters:
               Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)Nakahara Chuuya (Bungou Stray Dogs)Ozaki Kouyou (Bungou Stray Dogs)Hirotsu Ryuurou (Bungou Stray Dogs)Fukuzawa Yukichi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Edogawa Ranpo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Yosano Akiko (Bungou Stray Dogs)Nakajima Atsushi (Bungou Stray Dogs)Akutagawa Ryuunosuke (Bungou Stray Dogs)Armed Detective Agency Ensemble (Bungou Stray Dogs)Port Mafia Ensemble (Bungou Stray Dogs)Kunikida Doppo (Bungou Stray Dogs)Kyoka IzumiMori Ougai (Bungou Stray Dogs)
              Additional Tags:
               Character Deathbut it's Mori so who caresAlpha/Beta/Omega DynamicsOmega Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)Alpha Nakahara Chuuya (Bungou Stray Dogs)Allusion to male pregnancy but nothing happens in this ficSoft Dazai Osamu/Nakahara Chuuya (Bungou Stray Dogs)Soft Dazai Osamu (Bungou Stray Dogs)FluffChuuya and Dazai actually talking about their feelings
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-08Words:5718Chapters:1/1Comments:4Kudos:63Bookmarks:8Hits:354
      Start a War
      Shadow_Arashi
          Summary:
              “Chuuya’s eyes widened in shock, a horrible suspicion creeping to the front of his mind. He raised a trembling hand to touch the mark and nearly jumped backward and out of the bed when flashes of the previous events came to him.”__________SEQUEL TO GASOLINE.In which Chuuya and Dazai handle the fall out of Mori's manipulation in the best way possible; aka with murder.
  Notes:
      Warnings: Omega-verse, mention of past drugged sex and past non consensual drug use, death of a character (but it’s Mori so who cares), mention of male pregnancy.Disclaimer: I do not own Bungou Stray Dogs and its characters. I own nothing and am doing this for entertainment only and don’t make any profit of it.
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
        Work Text:
          When Chuuya slowly gained back consciousness he immediately attempted to go back to sleep, his still half asleep brain basking in the sensation of warmth and softness surrounding him before realizing that he wasn’t alone.There was someone holding him.The redhead bolted awake in an instant, instinctively calling his ability. He faltered however when he could not feel his power rushing through him, the familiar red hue of For The Tainted Sorrow refusing to form around him. Yet the shock of his ability not responding to him died as fast as it came when he finally noticed who was nestled against his side.Sprawled against him was Dazai, a very naked Dazai, sleeping soundly for once.Chuuya was baffled by the sight and stared at the unconscious form of his ex partner in pure confusion. Then he stared some more, feeling like he was missing something and internally screaming as to why the omega was naked in his bed.His thought process came to an abrupt halt when Dazai unconsciously shifted to get closer to him in his sleep, offering a glimpse of his throat and the bond mark that marred it.Chuuya’s eyes widened in shock, a horrible suspicion creeping to the front of his mind. He raised a trembling hand to touch the mark and nearly jumped backward and out of the bed when flashes of the previous events came to him.He remembered being summoned by the Boss. He remembered being offered a cup of sweet smelling tea. He remembered feeling like he was going into a rut right there and the Boss telling him to go rest in the nearby room.He remembered smelling hisparterhisminemineDazai and his frightened voice calling him and how good he tasted and-Chuuya crawled away from the bed for all of two feet before he threw up.“God-”His throat hurt and his nose was running and felt disgusting from throwing up but none of that mattered to him.“Dazai-”He mated Dazai. And he did it against his will.More memories were coming back to him and he nearly threw up again. How could he- Dazai had trusted him, trusted him to be the one alpha he did not have to fear and now he went and broke that trust!“Chuuya?”The redhead alpha blinked as his partner’s voice cut through his despair. Chuuya quickly wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and turned to face the brunette omega.“Chuuya? Are you all right?” Dazai was awake and looking at him with concern, no fear or hate in his eyes, even after what he had done to him. Seeing the honest worry in his partner broke Chuuya and the words came rushing out of him.“Fuck I’m- I’m sorry Osamu.” He rasped, the brunette freezing in shock at the rawness of his voice “I’m so fucking sorry but I swear I’ll fix this, I know I broke our promise but please-”He closed his eyes, the words tumbling out of his mouth faster and faster until he was suddenly pulled into a tight embrace. Chuuya stilled, then slowly opened his eyes again, almost half convinced he was dreaming.But no, he wasn’t dreaming. Dazai was hugging him, offering comfort to the alpha who broke his trust and claimed him.Chuuya nearly burst into tears.“Oh Chuuya, you silly chibi it’s not your fault.” Dazai murmured softly into his hair. “Mori used both of us, Chuuya. He drugged us. You didn’t do anything wrong, trust me on that.”“What- what are you saying?” Chuuya asked numbly.“Mori did this to us.” Dazai’s hands tightened around him, voice dripping with such a level of venom that Chuuya shivered “He wanted me back into the fold and since I wouldn’t play along he decided to use other means to control me. You were just a tool, I’m the one who is sorry. If it hadn’t been for me...”He desperately listened to his partner’s words, trying to make sense of them in his current state of shock. He clung to them as he would a buoy in the ocean, using them to force himself to push the panic down and think about the past events, until it finally clicked and his brain came to the same conclusion as Dazai.The rage that overcame him almost threatened to send him into full Corruption.“Mori did this.” He said.Dazai merely gave him a sad smile.“Yes he did, chibi. This is all on him.”“He made me hurt you.” Chuuya growled and his eyes flashed red.Dazai shook his head.“You didn’t hurt me Chuuya, even drugged you couldn’t. You took good care of me. You always do.”Chuuya clung to those words, spoken to him oh so sweetly, using them as an anchor once again as Arahabaki yowled inside him. He just barely succeeded, only kept in check by the cool sensation of No Longer Human rushing through him. Wounded and deceived, he clung tighter to Dazai, forehead pressed into the curve of the omega’s neck, and bit back the urge to scream himself hoarse.All the pieces fit together now. And Chuuya did NOT like the picture it painted.Betrayal. Pure and simple betrayal.It hurt, hurt to know he had been used in such a way just to help another one of Mori’s plans despite years of being a faithful executive. Hurt to know that even his own biology had been turned against him. It struck too close, brought back memories of Rimbaud and the experiments that bounded him to Arahabaki. It was a violation of such magnitude he knew he would never be able to forget or forgive.Mori had just signed his fucking death warrantIt took Chuuya a few more minutes before he truly felt in control of himself, but once he did he took one last deep breath, and forced himself to look at Dazai again.“I’m still sorry for what he made me do to you. I knew you never wanted to be bonded.” He whispered, hand brushing lightly against Dazai’s cheek. The brunette merely shook his head and mirrored his gesture, one hand gently cupping the side of his neck.“Don’t worry about that, partner. You didn’t break my trust. Mori was counting on our bond and yet he underestimated us completely. Or did you not notice?”Dazai smiled at him, not one of his twisted grins but a true smile, something like fondness and pride in his eyes. Chuuya was about to ask him what he was talking about when the hand cupping his neck brushed against something that made him gasp.“You-” He blurted out.“That one is all on you Chuuya, it’s your fault for letting me mark you so you better take responsibilities. There will be no take back!” Dazai’s smile actually split into a grin at that, his eyes still softer than he had ever seen them.Chuuya found himself grinning back, his fingers lightly brushing against his new bound mark in silent wonder. He didn’t even need to see it to know that it mirrored the one on Dazai’s neck perfectly and Chuuya shivered as it made the feral part of himself, the alpha part, purr in delight and pride.At long last they were one again. His partner had come back to him.Double Black was reunited and nothing could or would tear them apart. They were bonded forever, as it should be.“What’s next on the list?” Chuuya finally and reluctantly broke the intimate silence. “Knowing you, there is no way you’re just gonna stand for what Mori did.”A dangerous glint sparkled in Dazai’s eyes.“Right on the money, Chibi. We are going to take down Mori and we will do it by using his mistake against him. We can count on Kouyou and Hirotsu, they won’t support Mori anymore now that he has shown himself to be no better than the previous boss. With you that means 2 executives we don’t have to worry about, 3 if you count my seat which Mori never filled. So that’s 3 out of 5. The Black Lizards will follow Hirotsu and I’m 90% sure that Akutagawa’s loyalty to me will turn him against Mori once he finds out what he did to me. And that’s not even counting the ADA.” Dazai started listing out loud, letting Chuuya into his thought process. The redhead listened, quickly going over each point in his mind and raised an eyebrow when his partner mentioned the ADA.“You sure you want to drag them into this? I understand we need all the manpower we can get but are you certain they will be okay helping you stage a coup on the Port Mafia?”“Oh they will, trust me. They won’t have a choice.” Dazai smirked.This time Chuuya’s eyebrows disappeared into his hairline.Then he listened to Dazai’s plan and burst out laughing.“God Dazai, that’s pretty ballsy of you and I like it!” Chuuya struggled to stop what was quickly becoming a laughing fit, head shaking at the guts of his partner.“Sounds good to me.” He said after finally managing to get his laughter under control. “But how are we getting out of here?”Dazai pointed at the door.“By asking our nice jailors to open the door for us of course!”As if on cue the door opened in a show of perfect timing, revealing Kouyou and Hirotsu trailing behind her. The executive and commander of the Black Lizards both stepped into the room, silent as shadows. Chuuya barely had time to wonder how the hell Dazai knew Kouyou and Hirotsu were going to enter right at this moment before Kouyou threw a bag at him. “Get dressed quickly and get out of here. You have less than 15 minutes to run before Mori expects you in his office.” She said, her regal pose betraying none of her thoughts.Chuuya couldn’t stop the wave of gratitude and fondness he felt then for the person who pretty much was his big sister in everything but blood. He inwardly swore to thank Kouyou later while he dug into the bag, handing Dazai his clothes before pulling out his own usual outfit and hurriedly putting it on. “Now go.” Kouyou said as soon as they were both dressed. “Hirotsu-san and I will try to distract Mori as long as possible.”Chuuya didn’t have time to spare to answer her but he hoped she could read his gratitude on his face.With no further delay Chuuya grabbed Dazai’s hand and bolted out of the room.___________________It only took them 30 minutes to make their escape from the Port Mafia headquarters and reach the ADA’s office. As they both stared at the door leading to the agency’s headquarters Chuuya still couldn’t really believe they had made it this far. A part of him had honestly expected Mori to pull another one of his tricks at the last minute and yet here they were, about to pull off the most ambitious mission of their life as Double Black.“Ready?” Dazai asked his alpha.“Yes, let’s get this show started.” Chuuya nodded, giving Dazai’s hand one last reassuring squeeze.The brunette omega nodded and, deciding to forego subtlety entirely, slammed the door of the ADA’s office wide open.The violent entrance caused the people in the room to jump in surprise with various expressions of shock on their faces like a bunch of startled cats. Said expressions quickly turned from shocked to wary and hostile upon seeing the Mafia executive, which caused the redhead to snort. The blond who was Dazai’s partner at the agency seemed ready to burst, face red as he managed to both splutter and glare at the pair at the same time.“We need your help to stage a coup on the Port Mafia.”Dazai said immediately, cutting short the blond’s soon to be tamper tantrum.Chuuya couldn’t keep his laughter in check anymore when he saw the blond’s jaw actually fall open while the tiger kid that Akutagawa wouldn’t shut up about stood frozen like a deer in headlights.“What the actual fuck Dazai?!” Blondie finally managed to yelp.“We need the agency’s help Kunikida-kun. Mori fucked up one too many time and keeping him alive is no longer an option.” Dazai explained, his cheerful expression shifting to a more serious one.For the first time since they escaped Chuuya saw the tiniest of crack in Dazai’s composure. It was so slight that only he could have spotted it. He knew the brunette too well however and didn’t miss the way Dazai’s eyes held that manic glint that only shown when he was stressed and pushed way beyond his limits. Chuuya took a small step toward Dazai, subtly rubbing his scent on his omega as he bumped his shoulder, hoping it would help calm him down a little. Thankfully it worked and Dazai threw a quick, grateful glance at the redhead before facing his coworkers again. Chuuya followed his clue and did the same, silently observing and monitoring the mood in the room in case things went south. The agency President choose that moment to step out of his office, probably having heard the commotion they had made.“What do you mean by that Dazai, what happened?” Fukuzawa demanded.And Dazai, always one to push when he had the advantage for maximum damage, went for the kill.“Mori drugged both Chuuya and I to force a mating bond between us. His end goal was to have me join the Mafia again by using Chuuya to control me, since I would be bonded to obey him as my alpha. I believe that’s a good enough reason.”“Is this a joke-” Kunikida started, eyes wide, only to be interrupted when the brunette tugged at his bandages to show the healing mating bite on his throat.There was nothing but silence for a few, stunned seconds. Then the room exploded in yells of outrage.“He did what?!”The tiger kid, Atsushi, looked ill and ready to faint.“That BASTARD!” Yosano hissed.In a heartbeat she was at Dazai’s side, inspecting the bite with gentle fingers and sharp eyes promising violence. Chuuya’s opinion of her rose a few notches as he watched her handling Dazai. The brunette was stiff and unmoving under her examination, obviously having not expected her reaction.“The bite is not showing signs of infection and looks clean, so I believe I’m right in saying you didn’t reject Nakahara.” Yosano finally backed away from Dazai although her eyes never left him.The brunette merely nodded, one hand rubbing at his exposed neck, eyes just the tiniest bit larger and shinier.“But Dazai-san, you said it was a forced bonding?” Atsushi seemed lost, quickly looking back and forth between the pair.“I must admit that I share Atsushi’s concerns.” Fukuzawa declared, a burst of pure murderous intent steadily raising from him as his attention shifted from Dazai to stare at Chuuya. It was enough to convince the mafia executive that the older alpha would probably kill him on the spot if he didn’t prove that his bond with Dazai was a proper one. The man was damn scary but also honestly worried about Dazai, which was actually reassuring. Chuuya shook off the thought and quickly decided to make his plea now rather than later.“Let me make it clear; I truly care about Dazai.” He started, staring the President right in the eye. “We have known each other since we were fifteen and I’ve been watching over that moron ever since. No matter what you think you know about our relationship, we have always been partners and always will be. Also, if you really knew him at all you would know that Dazai never does anything he doesn’t want to. That was true back then and it is still true now. I won’t do anything to him that he won’t let me. Beside Mori fucked me over too, don’t forget it, and I hate being made a fool of.”There, he had made his position clear. Let them chew on that for a while.“Chuuya is right.” Dazai cut in before Fukuzawa could answer. “While the circumstance may not have been ideals I think- no I know we would have ended up like this sooner or later. Mori knew it too and he tried to take advantage of it. Now I’m asking for your help to deal with him.”“I understand. The two of you will have our help. After all the Agency always protects its own.” Finally the murderous intent from Fukuzawa disappeared, the older man’s gaze softening as he looked back at Dazai.It was unexpected for Chuuya who was used to Mori never showing anything but amusement or irritation toward his subordinates. Fukuzawa’s gaze in comparison was almost… fatherly, and for a split second Chuuya wondered what it would have been like to work under such a man. “All right!” Ranpo declared as he clapped his hands, startling everyone. “First of all congratulations on your new bond! Oh and for the record, I believe Mister Fancy Hat so Kunikida, please chill out.” Kunikida closed his mouth immediately with a frown. “I didn’t even need Super Deduction to tell you that but whatever. Now what’s your plan Dazai?”The brunette gave a grateful nod to Ranpo before he began exposing his plan.“We need to take out Mori quickly, preferably in one blow, or else we risk him finding a way to drag both Chuuya and I back to the Port Mafia for good. The good news is that 3 out of the 5 executives will either help or ignore us. We can also count on the support of the Black Lizards as well as Akutagawa, which gives us a boost in man power as well. The bare bones of the plan rely on the ADA and the Black Lizards keeping the others executives distracted while Kouyou gets Mori alone. Akutagawa and Atsushi will ensure that Mori stays cut off from any kind of back up. We strike when Mori is on his own and vulnerable; well as vulnerable as this bastard ever is. Chuuya and I will lead the attack against Mori. We have one chance to pull this off so if you have any concerns, now is the moment.”Ranpo contemplated Dazai’s words before nodding.“It’s a good start. We can fine tune the details later together. I only have one question for you, who is going to take over the Port Mafia once Mori’s gone? You must have already somebody in mind.”This is it, Chuuya thought, the last piece of the plan he and Dazai had been working on to bring down Mori. He watched as Dazai’s expression darkened and when the brunette spoke again it was the Demon Prodigy who answered the detective.“You are absolutely right~~!” Dazai practically sang with manic glee. “The Mafia will need a leader or risk losing its current position as a major player in Yokohama and I know just the right person. After all, who better to take the mantle than the one person Mori groomed to be his successor?”Ranpo’s eyes opened wide before he let out a sharp whistling sound.“Holy shit Dazai! You sure don’t do things half way!” He sounded half impressed and half concerned.Kunikida blinked confusedly, obviously not having connected the dots yet. Yosano and Atsushi wore identical bewildered expressions while Fukuzawa’s expression darkened.“You plan to go back to the Mafia and take over.” Fukuzawa stated. “Are you sure this is what you want Dazai? You once told me you would never go back there.”The President actually sounded worried and Chuuya saw Dazai grimace at that realization.“It’s not that I want to go back,” Dazai admitted wearily “it’s just the only way this is going to work. I’m the most qualified since I was actually trained for this and everybody in the Mafia already knows Mori intended for me to take over. Also keep in mind that whoever becomes the next Boss must be accepted by the executives to prevent an internal war but must also be willing to support the ADA. Kouyou may be willing to play ball but she has no interest in leading. Chuuya is strong and may be able to keep the Mafia united but he is not ready to take over. I’m the only one who can do this.”“Dazai-san… is there really no other way?” Atsushi looked ready to cry.Faced with a distressed teenager Dazai’s omega instincts seemed to kick in as the brunette actually pulled the tiger boy into a hug, causing Atsushi to stammer and blush.“It’s ok Atsushi-kun. This doesn’t mean I will leave the ADA behind. Nobody can stop me from coming back to see you guys, beside someone needs to keep Kunikida-kun on his toes.” Dazai joked as he petted Atsushi’s head, the boy clinging to the brunette’s coat.“I don’t like this.” Atsushi sniffled.“I know, me neither.” Dazai said gently.Chuuya watched the two figures in their embrace and felt a wave of tenderness for his omega. It was moments like this that made him realize how far Dazai had come. Offering comfort to his protegee like this would have never been an option before. It warmed his heart to see Dazai actually listening to his emotions instead of burying them and Chuuya swore to reward him later.Once Atsushi recovered the two broke apart with one last pat on Atsushi’s head from Dazai, causing the younger alpha to blush.Dazai finally stepped back to stand beside his alpha when a soft, small hand caught onto his sleeve.“If he hurts you, can I stab him?” Kyouka asked softly.Chuuya wondered who she was talking about when Kyouka glanced at him and he couldn’t hold back the offended “Hey!” that escaped him.Next to him Dazai let out a surprised laugh.“I swear.” He promised.“Are we done now? Because we have work to do.” Chuuya cut in before his mate could start plotting more ways to piss him off. Thankfully whatever Dazai was going to say next was interrupted by Yosano.“Before we do anything I want to do a full check-up of Dazai.” She declared, a look on her face that said she would not accept no for an answer.“Why? I’m unhurt and whatever drug Mori used is gone from my system by now.” Dazai shared a confused glance with his mate.“Don’t be cute with me now.” She crossed her arms over her chest. “You are a newly mated omega who just shared his heat with an alpha going through a forced rut of his own. You may have been too distracted to think about the consequences but let me remind you that even if it was drug induced, a heat usually results in pregnancy. I want to make sure you are not going to fight the entire Port Mafia with a baby in your womb.”Dazai’s face froze. Chuuya couldn’t blame him as his own heart nearly flew out of his chest through his throat as the words sank in.He was not ready for this!! Not that he hated children, it was quite the opposite, but this was not the right moment for them to even think about having little ones. Not when they had a war to fight. And judging from the distressed scent he could smell from his omega, Dazai knew that too.Listening to his instincts, Chuuya grabbed Dazai’s hand and pulled him into a hug, ignoring the rest of the peanut gallery.“Hey,” He whispered so that only Dazai could hear him “no matter what, we will deal with it together. So don’t you dare start losing yourself into your pretty head again.”Dazai half giggled, half whined but thankfully he calmed down quickly, omega instincts telling him to trust his mate.“Good.” He praised his mate. “Now let’s go and get this check-up over with.”Yosano smirked at him and merely directed them toward the infirmary. She didn’t bother trying to stop Chuuya from following after Dazai into the room, knowing better than to separate a newly mated alpha from his omega.She busied herself by preparing her tools and told Dazai to get comfortable. She had a job to do. The others could do without her for a little while.___________________Fukuzawa watched as the door of the infirmary closed behind the trio with a barely audible click, hands clenching at his sides. One of the people he had sworn to protect was in there and might be about to receive the second life-changing news of his life in the space of 24 hours.Dazai was right. He had let Mori run unchecked for too long and he couldn’t help but feel responsible to some degree about what had happened to the omega. This right now was his chance to fix his oversight and protect his employee, as no matter how much he hated it Fukuzawa was quite aware Dazai would have to be on the front-line even if he did turn out pregnant. Mori wouldn’t let him hide long enough for him to have the child.“Ready to start plotting the downfall of your old partner, President?” Ranpo smirked around a mouthful of candy.Fukuzawa nodded, his expression hardening.“Let’s get to work.”___________________This… was not how he had envisioned his day to go, Mori thought as he coughed up blood.Chuuya’s attack had been quick and vicious. In others circumstances he would have been proud of his subordinate for breaking through his guard and paranoia. Right now however he could barely breathe or feel any pain despite the seriousness of his wounds, though that may be due to blood loss and shock. A quick glance confirmed what he had feared; his left leg and right arm were gone, reduced to bloody stump by Chuuya’ s graviton. Mori forced himself to get up, to try and move his increasingly heavy body and failed, falling down onto the floor with a whimper of pain.This was it. This was how he was going to die, betrayed by the ones who had sworn their loyalty to him. He should have been furious and yet, and yet, a part of Mori could not help but feel fondness and pride at how far his protegee had come. Dazai had managed to thoroughly outsmart him and he didn’t see any of it coming. Not Chuuya’s betrayal, nor Kouyou’s and Hirotsu’s who were setting the Port Mafia on literal fire at this very moment.He had been so sure his plan was fool proof that he had forgotten the Mafia’s old proverb. The greatest misfortune of Dazai’s enemies is that they are his enemies.He had played with fire and had gotten burnt as a result. But all hope was not lost, he could still make it out alive. Mori ground his teeth and began to push himself upward again, but before he could attempt to crawl away to safety a loud thump interrupted him.Mori looked up at the sound, despite the sudden dizziness caused by his blood loss, only to see his murderer stalk toward him. Chuuya had finally found him, the redhead surrounded by the red glow of Corruption, eyes white and unseeing in his frenzied state. Despite the lack of pupils Chuuya was making his way right toward him without missing a beat, each step causing the floor beneath the young alpha to cave under his power. Mori instinctively tried to call out Elise when a slender hand grabbed his hair and pulled his head back, cutting off his connection to his ability.“Dazai-kun.” His voice came out surprisingly steady, if hoarse.His former protegee stood above him, eyes as wild as his mate and promising pain even as an angel’s smile graced his lips.“Mori-san, do you like my present?” The brunette gestured toward the broken hallway and noises of gunfire.“You shouldn’t... have.” Mori coughed, more blood staining his chin as he tried to catch his breath.“On the contrary!” The omega giggled and for the first time the former doctor felt fear chill his spine. “After your little stunt, it would have been rude of me to not reciprocate the favor with a gift of my own.”“Now is... this truly necessary Dazai-kun?” He licked his dried lips, increasing aware that Chuuya was still walking oh so slowly toward them like a predator on the prowl. “You know that... everything I have done was for your own good... and the good of the Mafia.”“You certainly taught me well, Mori-san.” Dazai agreed easily. “Which is why I’m using what you taught me to give you exactly what you wanted.” The hand grabbing his hair tightened and suddenly Mori was staring straight into Dazai’s almost blood red eyes. “I’ll be taking over the Mafia, just as you wanted, but it will be on my terms.” PAINWHITEHURTBURN.Mori’s head fell back as Dazai let go of his hair, allowing him to see the gaping hole in the middle of his chest that was still glowing the signature red of Corruption.The former Boss of the Port Mafia remained frozen in place for a few seconds before his body tilted forward and collapsed onto the ground, nothing but a broken puppet at the feet of the two people he had wrong.He was dead before he hit the floor.The two halves of Soukoku remained silent for a few seconds, then Dazai let out a breathy laugh of relief and disbelief.“We did it Chuuya, we did it.” Dazai threw himself into his partner’s arms, uncaring of the otherworldly aura surrounding the redhead, and pulled his mate into a deep kiss. By the time the brunette pulled away the last trace of Corruption had faded from Chuuya, leaving his skin unmarked once again and bright blue eyes staring at him with pure adoration.“God I fucking love you.” Chuuya growled, mind still high on his own power and the cool balm of No Longer Human, then kissed him again.They finally separated, though not before Chuuya gave one last bite to Dazai’s lips which prompted the now blushing omega to let out a small mewl.“Our job is done Chuuya, now rest. I’ll call the others to get us out.” Dazai said gently once he had his blushing under control.Chuuya managed a weak nod, finally giving in to exhaustion and allowing his body to lean against Dazai’s. Within seconds he could feel himself slipping into unconsciousness, soothed by the knowledge that his partner would take care of the rest.___________________Chuuya woke up to a gentle hand brushing his hair and the scent of his mate.“Dazai?” He called out, wincing slightly at how parched his throat felt.“You took your sweet time waking up Chibi. And here I thought I was the princess cursed to sleep forever.” The familiar voice teased.“Brat.” Chuuya grumbled, fighting back a smile when Dazai laughed at him in return. He enjoyed the soft touch for a few minutes before his instincts pushed him to check his surroundings. A quick look told him he and Dazai were in the ADA’s infirmary. He was currently laying in bed while Dazai was sitting next to him on said bed, having left the chair nearby to be closer to his mate. Another quick inspection confirmed that he had retained no wounds from their assault on the Port Mafia.“So it’s really over.” He stated as his eyes finally rested on his mate again.“Yes, the evil witch is dead!” Dazai nodded gleefully. “You should have seen his face when he died, Chuuya, oh I wish I had taken photos!”Dazai kicked out his legs a little as he spoke, looking so much like a child that Chuuya couldn’t resist the urge to pinch his cheeks.“Guess I better get used to calling you Boss then.” Chuuya smirked at his flustered mate. The brunette quickly recovered from his surprise pinch attack and pouted at him, which did nothing to diminish his childish look.“That’s right! I’m the Boss now, so you better get used to it Chibi.” Dazai’s expression softened in spite of the cocky words and Chuuya’s own features softened in turn as he pulled his mate into his arms.“Like you don’t already order me around all the time anyway.” He said gently against the pale skin of Dazai’s neck.The omega laughed softly before pulling him into a short kiss.“Chuuya knows me so well. And here is your first order,” Dazai whispered “Breed me.”“WHAT?!”“I’ve been thinking about it after our little pregnancy scare and I want it, I really do. I didn’t think I would but with you… I want to have a family with you.”That… was not what Chuuya had expected. Not that he was against the idea, his inner alpha all but jumping in joy at the thought, but it was still quite the surprise. He hadn’t believe Dazai would feel ready for that in their relationship yet, something Dazai seemed to pick on.“I’m serious Chuuya, I want to do this.” Dazai looked Chuuya straight in the eyes in a rare show of honesty and trust. “My body wants it and my mind agrees for once. And if you worry about me being a target, don’t. I already spoke to Kouyou and Hirotsu-san and they agree that the Boss having a child would actually help stabilize the Mafia; so me getting pregnant won’t make me a liability. The whole ADA will also support us, we are not alone Chuuya.”Chuuya stared at his mate, mind racing with the future that Dazai was offering. A future that he desperately wanted, even when he hadn’t believe it to be in his reach. Dazai waited patiently for his answer, and no matter how hard he looked, Chuuya saw no hesitation or doubt in his eyes.After a minute of silence Chuuya carefully grasped Dazai’s hand in his own and replied, a grin on his face.“As the Boss orders.”
  Notes:
  OMG you guys are amazing. I can't believe so many people enjoyed and wanted more of my previous fic with omega!Dazai and alpha!Chuuya.Many many thanks to everyone who commented and left kudos on Gasoline, this is for you.I hope this is everything you guys wanted. I certainly enjoyed writing it.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          HatTainted, LetheMedeaTranquility, Thanatos_Daughter, Stealthily_Nobody, Yugi_Rin06, Eyristell, ganymeding, limabeans_3005, sofasi_9, greeniebunnie, blackneko03, felizitatz, LoyalAndFreeAngie, justabitoverit, AmeliiesCat, IamsoUwU, Kaishin1827, velvetshoes, Chuuda, KoumbaKitty01, Nyakorii, I_ne3dsleep, LadyKurumi, Jincoco, eris_discordia, NikiOkava, Lady0804, Lalesa21, The_wanna_be_philosopher, DancingInferno, Shouldbeasleep, AlladaleRiver, locaxlaficcion, and Anime_Lover268
             as well as 
          29 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
