      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Manipulative Reginald Hargreeves
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      The Umbrella Academy (TV)
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Sins of the Father
      by
      So_Runs_the_World_Away
      Fandoms:
      The Umbrella Academy (TV)
 Teen And Up Audiences
 No Archive Warnings Apply
 Gen
 Complete Work
    07 Oct 2020
  Tags
    No Archive Warnings ApplyBen Hargreeves &amp; Klaus Hargreeves Klaus Hargreeves &amp; Everyone Klaus Hargreeves &amp; Vanya Hargreeves Number Five | The Boy &amp; Klaus HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves Allison Hargreeves Diego Hargreeves Ben Hargreeves Vanya Hargreeves Number Five | The Boy (Umbrella Academy) Reginald HargreevesHurt/Comfort Emotional Hurt/Comfort Emotional Manipulation Abuse Emotional/Psychological Abuse Angst Implied/Referenced Child Abuse Powerful Klaus Hargreeves Sober Klaus Hargreeves Telekinetic Klaus Hargreeves Ghost Mentor Klaus Hargreeves Deserves Better Klaus Hargreeves Needs Help Reginald Hargreeves' A+ Parenting Abusive Reginald Hargreeves Ghosts BAMF Klaus Hargreeves Ben Hargreeves Lives Mausoleum Hurt Klaus Hargreeves Klaus Hargreeves Needs A Hug Klaus Hargreeves-centric Manipulative Reginald Hargreeves Ben Hargreeves is a Good Brother Number Five | The Boy Is A Good Brother Childhood Trauma
    Summary
      There was a distinctly annoyed and horribly familiar huff behind him. "What a ridiculous waste of time. It is a Friday night, you should be honing your powers, Number Four."And. Klaus. Froze.He felt his shoulders bunch up, all his muscles tensing at the sound of his voice. He squeezed his eyes shut, hoping that he imagined it. But no."I am well-aware that you can hear me, Number Four. Or is this some extension of your irrational fear of the dead? I would've expected you to have moved past that by now, but you always were the weakest of your siblings."---In which Reginald Hargreeves comes back as a ghost and Klaus is left to deal with the fallout.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    23,117
    Chapters:
    3/3
    Comments:
    103
    Kudos:
    501
    Bookmarks:
    120
  Hits:
  3813
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
