      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: arthur merlin words&gt;1000 sort:hits
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
5. Chapter 5
6. Chapter 6
7. Chapter 7
        Full-page index
      Comments 
        Hide Creator's Style
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Criminal Minds (US TV)
              Relationship:
               Aaron Hotchner/Derek Morgan
              Characters:
               Derek MorganJennifer "JJ" JareauSpencer ReidAaron HotchnerEmily PrentissPenelope GarciaDavid Rossi
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-04-21Updated:2020-09-24Words:28488Chapters:7/8Comments:26Kudos:34Bookmarks:6Hits:1095
      Get It On Already
      criminalmindss312and309
      Chapter 7
    Chapter Text
    Garcia POV...I have been known to do naughty things and bend the rules a bit but I have never kept important information from the team, until now. Twenty minutes after the team left and I booked the rooms Michigan PD called and said they had caught the prep and the team was no longer needed. Of course, I could have called and relayed that information to Boss Man but what fun would that be? He and my chocolate muffin needed some alone time together and they were getting two days worth. Why two days you ask? Well, the weather is making a turn for the worst tonight so no planes would leave for the next few days. No buses, trains, or anything ridable wasn't available which made me one happy camper. I would face the boss man wrath when they returned, but I know he wouldn't go too crazy on me because he hates seeing me cry. I didn't use this factor much but I was surly using it this time if I needed it.I must admit JJ surprised me with the information on Emily. I wouldn't have guessed that she had the hots for Rossi. Don't get me wrong he is attractive as fuck, a real romantic, and loyal as they come but with his sarcasm and Emily been a bad girl I just didn't see it coming. But then again opposites do attract and I couldn't think of a better match for either one of them. Dave would give Emily the security and love she needs and she would give him spice and love that he needs. Neither are afraid to speak their minds so that would keep the relationship spicy. I am so glad JJ shared this with me because this unexpected case/non-case has given four people the change to hook up and hopefully form a relationship. Hotch wouldn't accept anything from Derek but a commitment and Derek knows this and wouldn't dare hurt our bossman. He knew he would never recover the viruses I would put on all his electronics, nor the damage I would do to his accounts. And Dave knew better than to play with Emily because he know her famous words are "I will end you", words she only uttered when it was time for you to disappear without a trance. I smiled as I relaxed and began to play one of my computer games.Hotch POV...I knew staring out the window at the clouds wouldn't make my thoughts go away but I was still doing so. We wouldn't make it to our destination for another hour or so and I wondered if I could just force myself to go to sleep. I knew logically that wouldn't work because I could never force sleep upon myself and if I tried I caught an instant headache. And even if I did manage to fall asleep I may have dreams about him. I didn't need that because catching a boner on this plane, with five other profilers, with these tight ass jeans on wouldn't go unnoticed. And I will be damned if I embarrassed myself again in front of my team. So if I had to stare at the clouds for another hour I would. It's not like we could discuss the case because air service is the worst. After twenty more minutes passed I snuck a look at my team. JJ and Emily were playing some online games against each other. I could tell because they kept glancing at each other and making competitive faces. Reid was reading a book as usual although he was still aware of his surroundings. Dave was holding his secret poems that nobody knew about but me but he didn't know I knew. I only found out when I showed up for a drink one day at his house. He left it on the table when he went to refill our drinks and I couldn't help but sneak a peek.When I saw how mushy and loving the first two were I closed the book ashamed of my nosiness but not really because he is just as nosy, I thought smirking a little. Finally, my eyes roamed to my secret love and I could tell that he had fallen asleep. I couldn't help but let my eyes become greedy as I stared at him. I still couldn't get over how beautiful he is, how flawless his skin complexion is. Not one blemish on that perfect skin, not one ounce of fat on that delicious body. But underneath all that beauty is an even more beautiful soul. A heart of gold, loyal to the bone, a person that you can trust with everything. A person I couldn't have, I thought as tears prickled under my eyelids. I could feel those tears threatening to fall and although I knew it would bring more attention to myself, I jumped up and rushed to the bathroom. Once I was in there with the door locked I let out a waterfall of tears. I couldn't control them and I didn't even try. I was so tired of always holding everything in, so tired of always been strong. So tired of loving Derek from afar and so ashamed that I wanted him in a way that he would never want me. I just didn't know what to do anymore. I wasn't in control of this situation and one thing I hate the most is not been in control.My thoughts of self-pity were interrupted by three knocks on the door. I inhaled deeply because I knew who was at the door. Dave was the only one who knocked that way, it was something like a signature for him. I started to wipe my face but I got up and unlocked the door with a tear-streaked face and red eyes. I was bearing all for Dave to see because I couldn't hold my emotions anymore. He entered and a look of surprise crossed his face when he looked at me. He locked the door and held out his arms. I didn't hesitate to fall into them and cry more. He held me as he whispered "let it all out Aaron", "I am here for you". I did just that, I cried like a baby for about ten minutes before I pulled back and stared at him. He smiled and offered me his hankey to use. A minute later my face was clean and I felt a tiny bit better. I tried to return his hanky but he said I could have it. I chuckled a bit and then I sat down on the toilet. We were silent for a minute and then he spoke."Talk to me, Aaron".I hesitated but when he gave me that talk or else look, I begin to speak.Rossi POV...After I wrote my poem I closed the book and just held it. Usually, I would hide it away but everyone was occupied so I could put it away later. I glanced at Emily but she was playing some game on her phone. I took a few more minutes to admire her beauty and then I turned away because I didn't want to get caught staring at her. Maybe I shouldn't write that poem because she would cloud my thoughts which weren't good at present. My focus needed to be on the case and it would be, I thought as I forced her from my thoughts. I was about to take a nap when I Hotch jumped up and ran to the bathroom. "What the fuck", I thought. I wasn't the only one looking shocked, the whole team had the same look of confusion as I did. But I think I am the only oned that noticed he was crying."What happened", Reid asked in confusion?Everyone looked at each other before shrugging their shoulders."Well someone should check on him", JJ said."I'll do it", Derek said as he flung his earphone on the seat."Wait", I said."Why should I", Derek asked as he stood."He needs a moment Morgan", Emily answered before I could."Need a moment for what"? He rushed to the bathroom like he was been chased by something, Derek snapped.I looked at him and I could see the concern and affection there. Hell maybe it was love, maybe one of my prayers was answered."I'm going to check on him," Derek repeated."I think you should wait", Reid intervened."Why should I wait, Pretty Boy", Derek asked in a dangerous voice?"You should give him some time to get himself together", you know we all are private people that don't like our emotions displayed, Reid answered in a calm voice."So if something was wrong with you, you would be ok with everyone ignoring you"?"Yes because I would like some privacy to compose myself" and after I did so I would expect one of you to come and check on me.Derek glared at him and then at the rest of us. Nobody contradicted what Reid had said which made Derek madder."So you all agree with Reid", he finally snapped?"Well he is the expert on everything", Emily teased so yes.JJ just nodded and I didn't change my expression or answer. He was going to be madder when I told him I was the one checking on Hotch. I was stalling to give Aaron time to get himself together. There was no way I was letting Derek or nobody see him in that condition. For one Aaron would never forgive me and two he may beat me with his bare hands into a coma condition."You people are heartless", Derek responded as he sat down with an angry expression."Damn Morgan why are you so anxious to get back there", is there something I should know about you and the boss man", Emily teased?He gave her a look of death and then flicked her the bird. That broke the tension and we all laughed at him. Ten minutes passed with silence as we all were left with our thoughts of Aaron. I decided Aaron had enough time to get himself together. I stood and Derek's eyes immediately turned to me. I inhaled silently because I knew an argument was about to inspire between the two of us."Where are you going", he asked with a hard edge to his voice?  "To check on Aaron", I said in a don't fuck with me voice.He ignored the tone as he stood. All eyes were on us but I didn't care. He was going to back down rather he wanted to or not."I AM GOING TO CHECK ON HIM": he answered in a possessive voice."NO YOU ARENT", I said in a hard voice.You aren't the boss of me or anyone on this team Dave". I don't take orders from you. I am second of command and I will go check on my superior, he snapped!"Like hell, you will". I don't give a fuck if you are second in command, I was a profiler before you were out of diapers, I snapped back!"Guys calm down", I can go check on him, Reid interrupted. You both are angry and he doesn't need that."Shut up Reid". Stay in your place Derek snapped viciously.All of the colors drained from Reid's face as he stared at Derek with his mouth hanging open."Stay in my place", he asked with a stumble to his words?JJ rushed to Reid's side and glared at him.Don't be an asshole Morgan". That was uncaused for, Emily said as she gave him that famous Emily death glare. He ignored them as his eyes remained locked on me."That may be true but I'm sure he won't want you checking on him anyway". I mean you did humiliate him earlier, he said nastily.I know he was just concerned about Aaron and was taking it out on me but I also knew he wouldn't back down unless I was just as vicious. I had to up it one, shock him so I could go and check on Hotch without knocking him on his ass."Did the thought occur to you that he may be uncomfortable because of you, I snapped? I don't know what your issues were today but you have been acting clingy and very un Derek like. Hotch doesn't like clinginess from anyone on this team, especially his second in command. He probably is stressed the fuck out because of YOU, I said viciously!All the color drained from his face and he just fell back into his seat. His eyes shined with tears and I hated that I had reduced him to that but I had to if he and Hotch had any chance of getting together. Hotch wouldn't get with him if he caught him crying before they ever got together."What the fuck Rossi", that was uncaused for, Emily snapped as she rushed to his side. You are an unsensible asshole, she snapped as she sat beside Derek and took him in her arms.I had hurt him so bad he wasn't ashamed of the tears that were rolling down his face. Reid and JJ rushed to his side but JJ looked at me like I wasn't shit. I would make it up to them all later but I had to get to Hotch while they were all occupied."I knew you were insensitive Dave but damn I didn't think you would hurt someone you called family so badly", JJ said.Reid just stared at me thoughtfully and I believe the kid knew that what I said wasn't true, I just needed to talk to Aaron alone. I looked at them all one last time and then I rushed to the head. I knocked the signature knock so he would know it was me. A moment later Aaron answered and I was shocked as hell. His face was tear-stained and his eyes were bloodshot red. I hurried in and locked the door and then I did what was natural. I held out my arms and wasn't surprised when he fell into them. Aaron rarely showed emotions in this way and I knew at the moment he was at his breaking point. I whispered comforting words "let it all out Aaron", "I am here for you". He cried like a baby for about ten minutes and then pulled back and stared at me. I smiled and offered him my hankey to use. A minute later his face was clean and I could tell he felt a tiny bit better. He tried to return my hanky but I said "he could have it". He chuckled a bit and then he sat down on the toilet. I remained standing. We were silent for a minute and then I spoke."Talk to me, Aaron".He hesitated and I gave him that don't fuck with me look. That did the trick because he begins to speak in a childlike voice."I don't mind talking to you Dave because right now I am at my breaking point. All I ask is please let me speak freely without interruption. I need to get this out my own way so can you respect my wishes", he asked?"Of course I can Aaron". I know at times I come off as an insensitive asshole and it may seem as if I don't care, hell the team can vouch for that right now", I said.He raised an eyebrow and said, "Please don't tell me that you hurt them to come back here with me Dave".I gave him a sheepish look and he rolled his eyes."You are so making up to them Dave and it will be in a BIG WAY"."I will do whatever you say", was my response."Good remember you said that", he said with a devious smile."Fuck what has gotten myself into"?He just smiled deviously and then continued.I know you care Dave and I was going to talk to you after we left the MPD but a wave of emotions hit me, brought me to tears which led us here". I said I will tell you everything but let me go at my pace. We have a half-hour until landing so we have fifteen minutes for me to talk and you to listen and then respond."Aaron we have as much time as you need"."When we land I have to return to SSA Hotchner". I can't be him and emotional at the same time. The team has already seen me breakdown, have mixed emotions, embarrass myself, and dressed like a horny teen".I couldn't help it, I burst into laughter and after giving me a glare he laughed too."Ok Aaron, I won't interrupt, please speak your mind.He inhaled deeply and just like that he started talking."Dave I have done something I have no business doing but it has gotten so out of control that I can't stop it. I have thought about transferring but I can't because I truly love this team like a family. I know I never talk about my childhood but you can guess that it wasn't good. My father was an evil bastard who loved to be in control at all times. Nothing was good enough for him and he used that as an excuse to beat on Sean and I. Mother was a true believer in the man ran the household so she never stood up for us", he said as a tear dropped."I never felt real love until I met Haley, he continued. Then when I joined the team I felt more love, even if I come off as a hardass. But when Derek joined the team something inside of me was awakened. Something unpure and wrong on so many levels. Dave, I found myself attracted to a male, a straight male, he emphasized. I knew it wasn't right, isn't right but I couldn't stop the emotions, he cried. Then the dreams started, the naughty dreams, and I found myself been aroused by him plenty of times. At work, on cases, even when I was still with Haley. I know it was wrong Dave, maybe she sensed it and that is the reason she left", he cried with a guilty look on his face.I wanted to interrupt so many times but I would respect his wishes although I disagreed with so many of the things he was saying. I was surprised he was been the open with me but loving Derek for so long and holding it in was a tearing my friend up. He had finally reached his breaking point and now that he had it was overflowing like a huge waterfall. But I was listening and memorizing his every word because I knew once he got it out he wasn't repeating it for me."I know I'm disgusting Dave and I'm sorry to weight you down with all this but you are the best friend I have. I trust the team ut I don't want them looking at me as the sick monsters we chase. Dave, I know what happened to him as a child and he trusts me with that. And he straight as they come Dave, hell he has been with more women than you. I can't ever let him know how I feel but I can't make the feelings go away. He is such a beautiful person Dave, he has a heart of gold and is loyal to the bone"."And let's not talk about how handsome he is. Dave, he has so many wonderful qualities, he's so smart and doesn't mind challenging me when I am a been unreasonable or just a hard ass. He doesn't see me like a drill sergeant anymore and he wants to hang out with me sometimes, just us. And although I am grateful he wanted that I'm not so sure he wants it anymore after I embarrassed him in the conference room. I didn't mean to, I was trying to bring humor to the table and instead, I made everyone uncomfortable. And the worst part is I HAVE FALLEN IN LOVE WITH HIM! I am so pitiful my friend, he said hanging his head low. You may speak, he concluded."Rossi POV...As I listened to Aaron I let that my heart was breaking into a million pieces. I know that my friend has been through a lot but I couldn't believe how he was downgrading himself, acting as if he wasn't anything but an old pervert lusting after someone he truly loved. Aaron is one of the strongest, most honorable men I have ever met and he would never do anything to hurt the ones he loved. I am convinced he loves Derek 100% and Derek's display of anger and tears were proof that he loves his unit chief as well. But they had to be the ones to display their love to each other. I would comfort Aaron and try to push him in the right direction but in the end, they both must stand up and reveal their feelings for one another."I know you are trying to find the right words Dave because you are never this silent, especially since I dropped a huge bomb on you. Just speak your mind please man and put me out of my misery. I can resign he said quietly and you can lead the team", he said quietly."Aaron stop it", I snapped before I could stop myself. I'm quiet because I want to get my words right when I answer. "You wouldn't need to get your words right if this was a normal and right situation", he said sadly. Don't hold back because it's me, Dave, keep it real like you always have."Aaron if you say anything else to put yourself down I will call Derek in here and tell him everything", I threatened."You wouldn't", he said looking me in the eyes.I made sure he couldn't read me as I stared right back into his eyes. It was hard because we know each other so well but tonight I was determined to win this round as I had done with Derek. We stared at each other for a full minute before he spoke."You are really an evil fucker Dave", he snapped."Thank you", I said sarcastically. Now if you are ready to listen I will speak, I said in a smug voice."I'm ready", he whispered."Good and as you told me you will listen and not interrupt until I'm done"."I will", he said with a small smile.That smile filled my own heart with happiness."Aaron I am so sorry that your father was an evil bastard that was so weak that he had to take out his own failures on his innocent children. But the pain he used to hurt you, you turned around with love, success, loyalty, and strength. Aaron, you are one of the strongest men I know and I am very proud of you", I said with a smile.He smiled back but this time it was brighter, happier, just a smile that kicks you in the heart but in a good way."I know Haley was your first love and I believe that love helped you come out of the shell, let you see that there was love outside of the house you lived in. I say house, not a home because your parents never let you feel safe, loved, secure, cared for as you would feel in a home. Haley gave you the love you needed then but throughout the years she changed and not for the better. Aaron the best thing she could have done was leave you because she was toxic and you and especially Jake didn't deserve that. If she had stayed Jake would have been tainted and I know you would never want that for him. And I doubt if she knew you had any kind of feelings for Derek because she was caught up in her own filthy desires. And if she did suspect it didn't even matter because she knew you would never cheat on her, you are too honorable for that.He didn't speak but he nodded his head at that as if he was just realizing Haileys cheating and leaving was a blessing in disguise. I didn't want to talk about her anymore though because I still despised that evil bitch for cheating on him, leaving him, and flat out abandoning her son."I don't think you are disgusting at all Aaron, we can't help who we fall in love with. If we could then none of us would fall in love in the first place", I said with a laugh. He smirked but stayed quiet as I continued. No one on this team would ever compare you to the evil we chase, hell Aaron every single member of the team trust you and look up to you, you are loyal, strong, and never put yourself above this team. You stand up for each and every one of us and make sure we are protected the best you can. I would never want anyone else to lead this team except you Hotch. You are the leader Gideon never was and you would never leave us unless you didn't have any other choice. Aaron, you are my best friend and you know you can talk to me about anything and I am honored that you were truthful to me about this situation"."Now I know Derek's story as a child but Aaron he would never compare you to the monster that hurt him. I agree he is a wonderful person and his heart is pure but how do you know he's 100% straight? I thought you were only into women but you like men too, or especially Derek. It could be the same with him, Aaron. When you made that joke in the breakroom he blushed Aaron, he actually blushed. Why would he blush Aaron, most people would shy away, get upset, or ignore a situation they are uncomfortable at. And lastly, he wanted to come back here and check on you first. Aaron, he was ready to punch me out to get back here and he would have if I hadn't made him back down. Stop doubting yourself, just talk to him tonight, you need to do this otherwise you will drive yourself crazy with the what, ifs, whys, and so forth. You may speak", I concluded."You really think I have a chance", was his only question?"Yes". He may not want to jump into a relationship right away Aaron but I believe he is interested."Thank you Dave", he said as he walked to me and gave me a big hug.I smiled and thanked God for giving me the discernment I needed to reach my friend. We hugged for a moment and then he pulled back and then to my surprise he sucker-punched me in my arm."What the hell Aaron, I asked as I rubbed my arm?"That's for hurting Derek", he said with a smirk.I tried to look angry but couldn't as we both fell out into laughter. The pilot announced our destination for ten minutes so Aaron dried his face and fixed himself up to Unit Chief Hotchner and we returned to our seats to buckle up. I let him go first to see who he would sit by. To my pleasure and surprise, he chose Derek. Emily looked up in surprise but quickly moved when Hotch indicated that he wanted to sit down. Thank God Emily had calmed him down because his face showed no trace of the tears he had shed earlier. I smiled because I felt in my heart the two would be starting something by the time we made it home.Morgan POV...I couldn't believe that Rossi would say something so cruel and rude to me just because I wanted to check on the man I loved. If I didn't know any better I would swear that Rossi wanted him or wanted to fuck him. But nevertheless, my heart broke at his words. Did I really stress Hotch out today, was I acting like a lovesick teen or worst was I acting weak? Of course, me crying in front of everybody was totally weak but I couldn't hold in these emotions for my boss any longer. I didn't give a damn if the team knew anymore because my crying was proof that I felt something for him anyway. And they are damn profilers, the best, so I wasn't fooling anyone."Dave can be a complete ass at times", Emily said as she took me into her arms. He means well but has a fucked up way of showing Derek. If you want I will kick his ass, she said in a tone that made me wonder if she as kidding.Before I could respond JJ spoke."I will help Emily bury him somewhere that he would never be found all you have to do is say the words", she said looking as serious as Emily."Before we kick anyone ass and bury him can I ask you something Morgan", and will you answer honestly, Pretty Boy asked?I looked ay my first best friend with watery eyes and nodded. I knew it would be something about Hotch but I was ready, to be honest with all my friends. I knew they wouldn't tell boss man so I was safe in being truthful."Do you have feelings for Hotch", he asked in a respectable but blunt manner.JJ and Emily gasped at his bluntness but I expected nothing from him. I looked at all of them and straightened my posture. If I was going to be truthful I couldn't look and sound weak. I reached into my bag and grabbed a baby wipe from the package. I turned away from them and wiped my tearstained face. I inhaled and exhaled and then turned back to them ready to reveal my deepest secret."Before I answer you Pretty Boy let me say something. I was a mess after Buford molested and raped me but I made a promise to myself. I promised that I would never let another man hurt me and if another ever looked at me sexually I would beat them to a pulp. But over the years I have found men attractive and was completely disgusted with myself. At first, I thought it was all because of Buford but years of counseling finally made me see that I was bisexual and it had nothing to do with that man. No, I didn't enjoy what he did to me, what he took from me but I learned he wasn't in control of my sexuality I was. Those years in counseling really helped me"."Even as I accepted my sexuality I still enjoyed women more than men until I joined this team and met Hotch", I said quietly but loud enough for them to hear. I didn't want Hotch to overhear this. They caught onto why I was lowering my voice and all of them surrounded me."Yes, Pretty Boy, I had a crush on Hotch but as the years passed that crush grew to feelings and then love", I admitted. I doubt if he feels the same because he is straight but my feelings will not leave. I feel like a complete fool for falling for a straight man, especially one who is my boss, one I have to see each time I work. This shit is hard, I said as I looked at each of them, hard as fuck, I concluded.Everyone was silent for a moment and then they all begin to speak one by one."Morgan you should just be honest with him on how you feel", Reid said."Right, tell him how I feel so he can either file a harassment form on me or look at me pitifully as he let me down", no thank you, I said."What makes you think he will turn you down", JJ asked? And you know good and damn well Hotch wouldn't file a harassment form on you."Maybe not, he may just glare at me until I ball up and shake in a corner", I said with a laugh.Everyone laughed at that and then I answered her question honestly."JJ the man was married to a woman, had a child with a woman and has never been with a man"."You haven't been with a man either, at least not none willingly that we know about so that excuse doesn't work". And so what he was married to a woman and had a child, he could be bisexual himself Morgan."Or you can dress up as a woman to win him over", Emily said with a straight face.Everyone burst into laughter and I just flipped her the bird because there was no way in hell I was dressing like a woman for Hotch or anybody."Look Derek you can torture yourself forever or just sit down and talk with the man. I wouldn't be encouraging you if I didn't think something could be there on Hotch end as well", Reid said."Why do you think that", I asked in a hopeful tone?"When we were in the conference room and Hotch said what he said. It wasn't a slip and I know this for a fact for two reasons. He said what he said with ease like it was something he has been thinking about for a while. And he blushed after he realized how dirty it sounded. If what he said was innocent he would have laughed it off as a normal person would but instead he demanded Garcia to start on the case. So there is some interest there but he won't make a move, he's far too anal and uptight for that. After we present the case and do our job invite him out for a drink and make a move", Reid concluded.I looked at him and then the women and they all had that go for it look on their faces. I smiled because I knew none of them would lie to me."Don't tell me the original ladies/lover man is losing his touch", Emily teased."Fuck you Emily", I will never lose my touch, I bragged as I always do when I'm feeling myself. And Reid he isn't anal or uptight he's just serious and protective, I said smugly."He's in love alright", look how he's protecting his man, JJ teased.Before I could respond we heard the bathroom door unlock, just as the pilot announced we were ten minutes from our destination. JJ and Reid returned to their seat but Emily remained in hers beside me. A minute later Hotch and Rossi returned. I was surprised when Hotch chose to sit by me. My heart smiled with happiness because I knew tonight would be the night that I made my move. I prayed silently for him to love me as I loved him.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          Hmot02, scenicdaisy, DeborahSEllis, Reader_Writer201, LaMusaEuterpe, Ashi91, TJ_is_a_B_W_itch, 7pigy7, nisa0827, StrawberryBasketCase, TheRedTree, I_kill_Zombies, Mihoshi_Jackson, Sekmi, SweetLyn93, Tvfanficgirl46, shalottsilver, Heckya, Londonreed, and AJ_Pastel_Punk
             as well as 
          14 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
