      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  This work could have adult content. If you proceed you have agreed that you are willing to see such content.
    Proceed
    Go Back
  If you accept cookies from our site and you choose "Proceed", you will not be asked again during this session (that is, until you close your browser). If you log in you can store your preference and never be asked again.
      Shadowhunters Season 4- The Fall of Angels
      by
      SmuttyMalec
      Fandoms:
      Shadowhunters (TV), The Shadowhunter Chronicles - All Media Types
 Explicit
 No Archive Warnings Apply
 M/M
 Complete Work
    09 Oct 2020
  Tags
    No Archive Warnings ApplyMagnus Bane/Alec Lightwood Magnus Bane &amp; Alec Lightwood Simon Lewis/Isabelle Lightwood Clary Fray/Jace Wayland Simon Lewis/Jace WaylandAlec Lightwood Magnus Bane Jace Wayland Isabelle Lightwood Simon Lewis Clary Fray Luke Garroway Jia Penhallow Asmodeus Lydia Branwell Aline Penhallow Lily Chen Rafael Lightwood-BaneAmnesia Temporary Amnesia Season/Series 04 Shower Sex Smut Rimming Cockblock Jace Wayland Plot Parabatai Parabatai Bond Conspiracy Bisexual Simon Lewis Pansexual Simon Lewis Anal Sex Anal Romance Background Simon Lewis/Isabelle Lightwood Power Bottom Alec Lightwood Bottom Alec Bottom Alec Lightwood Top Magnus Bane Alliance Rune (Shadowhunter Chronicles) Semi-Public Sex Public Sex Emotions Emotional Immortal Alec Lightwood Mortal Magnus Bane Semi-Immortality Warlock Alec Lightwood Fluff Fluff and Smut Porn With Plot Porn with Feelings alternative universe AU
    Summary
      A mostly Malec focused take on what Season 4 could have been.Fallen Angels have breached our world. War is upon us.Clary's memories may hild the key to winning the war and a revelation about the Angels changes the shadow world foreverAlec and Magnus become joined in a way they never knew was possible.Clary brings with her new powers and knowledge to the fight.Izzy struggles to adjust following a serious injury after an attack on the New York Insitute.Asmodeous returns.Alec takes chargelWar breaks out amongst the Heavens and the Hells and the Apocalypse is here!
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    156,962
    Chapters:
    26/26
    Comments:
    349
    Kudos:
    460
    Bookmarks:
    89
  Hits:
  18136
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
