      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Fandom:
               The Umbrella Academy (TV)
              Relationships:
               Ben Hargreeves &amp; Klaus HargreevesDiego Hargreeves &amp; Klaus HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves &amp; The HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves &amp; EveryoneKlaus Hargreeves &amp; Eudora PatchKlaus Hargreeves &amp; Reginald HargreevesKlaus Hargreeves/David "Dave" KatzKlaus Hargreeves &amp; Vanya Hargreeves
              Characters:
               Klaus HargreevesBen HargreevesDiego HargreevesEudora PatchAllison HargreevesLuther HargreevesNumber Five | The Boy (Umbrella Academy)Vanya HargreevesChuck BeamanGod (Umbrella Academy)Reginald HargreevesGrace HargreevesDr. Pogo (Umbrella Academy)
              Additional Tags:
               GhostsAlternate UniverseAlternate Universe - Canon Divergenceklaus is a detectiveImplied/Referenced Drug UseAlcohol Abuse/Alcoholismi'll add tags as i goNo Incest
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-08-31Updated:2020-09-04Words:11575Chapters:2/?Comments:37Kudos:296Bookmarks:69Hits:1837
      The Only Bridge There Ever Was
      OverlyObsessed223
          Summary:
              Traveling around the world for seven years and helping solve world famous homicides? Easy. Summoning ghosts and communicating the circumstances of their deaths to the living world? Piece of cake. Spending eight days with his siblings? Absolutely impossible. Or, Klaus, a medium homicide detective, comes home to investigate the death of his father. He ends up having to deal with so much more than that.
  Notes:
      Hey! So, this is my first chaptered fic for this fandom, and I've been pretty excited about it. I hope it's interesting enough lol, I'm certainly having a fun time with this concept so there's that.
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
      Chapter 1: One
    Chapter Text
    The only thing Klaus enjoys about airplanes is the alcohol they serve.He’s sipping on a glass of brandy now—his third glass, actually, but he’s built his tolerance up so much that he’s not even feeling much of anything right now. However, it’s a balance he’s alright with nowadays, a compromise he had to make if he wanted to go anywhere at all in life. Ben considers the cutbacks an accomplishment on his part, and Klaus doesn’t mind giving him that win, because God knows he’s lost so much already. Ben is sitting in the seat across from him, reading a book Klaus can’t remember the name of, because he’s never really been an avid reader (big shock there). Besides the two of them and a stewardess sitting in the back, the small plane is empty as it usually is. Klaus hates flying commercial airlines, not because he’s snobby or anything like that, but because the more people around, the more ghosts that follow, and even if Klaus has learned to tolerate the ghosts it certainly doesn’t mean he likes them any more than he did twenty years ago. And, the peace and quiet is nice. Ben looks up from his book for the first time since they boarded the plane, his eyes straying to look at the manilla file folder sitting on the table in between them. “Aren’t you gonna read that?” Ben frowns at the untouched folder. “Nah,” Klaus answers, swirling his drink around in his glass.  “But what if there’s important information in there? Aren’t you even gonna skim over it?”“What’s the point?” Klaus takes another sip of his drink as he lazily sinks even farther into his chair. “The geezers always tell me everything anyway, and I like hearing it from them. Makes it feel fresh, you know?”Ben sighs, shaking his head just the tiniest bit before going back to his book—he has to pick his battles with Klaus and this isn’t one he cares enough about to fight. The stewardess fills his glass once again—the last one before he’s on the clock, he swears to Ben. The stewardess shoots uneasy glances at the chair where Ben’s sitting, but she doesn’t say anything. She doesn’t have to, because she knows Klaus is talking to a ghost—she knows who Klaus is.Once she walks away, Klaus lets his gaze fall back onto the folder, and he really hopes it’s not a child case. Adult cases are always sad too, of course, because murder is sad, but the case from last month where he had to talk with a bloodied, sobbing little girl still sits fresh on his mind. Those always tend to bum him out for a couple of days afterward, and they never fail to make Ben snappier than usual. The seatbelt sign flashes on, a sign that they’re landing soon, and so begrudgingly Klaus sits up and snaps his seatbelt across his lap—he may be an idiot with zero self-preservation skills whatsoever, but he’ll be damned if he doesn’t follow airfare rules to a T. When the plane lands ten minutes later, Klaus shuffles off of the plane with his backpack and duffle bag, taking a moment to slip the stewardess and the pilot each a generous tip because he always tries to tip people who have to deal with him for hours on end. Klaus makes his way through the Chicago airport, keeping a close eye out for paparazzi that might’ve caught wind that he was going to be here, feeling amused when a few people around him stare as he walks by.He doesn’t even have to check to see if Ben is on his heels. He skips past the suitcase area because he never packs a suitcase. Everything he needs he carries around on his person at all times, and he’s pretty good at fitting his wardrobe into his duffle bag—a skill he learned when he was homeless on the streets. The pickup area is crowded, with many drivers standing around holding up signs with names on them, so it takes Klaus a good minute to find the sign with ‘HARGREEVES’ printed on it.“Detective Hargreeves!” the man holding the sign greets him warmly as Klaus approaches. He’s at least a foot shorter than Klaus, wearing a suit, and his brown hair is gelled back—the state obviously sent a higher-end driver, which Klaus does appreciate but finds unnecessary overall. “Just Klaus, please,” Klaus requests, reaching out to shake the driver’s hand. “Of course,” the driver nods. “My name’s Charlie Cooper, and my car is right over there.”Charlie leads Klaus to his black SUV, offering to put Klaus’ bag in the trunk, but Klaus declines, preferring to keep it close. Klaus lets Ben crawl into the car first before sliding in himself, Charlie getting settled up front. “Straight to the house, sir?” Charlie asks as he pulls away from the curb, navigating the airport parking lot carefully. “Yeah, probably,” Klaus nods, checking the small black and yellow Lego Batman watch that’s on his left wrist—there’s not enough time to drive through anywhere for food. Oh well, he’ll eat later, hopefully, waffles. The first half of the ride is spent in silence, save for the radio which is currently playing out a baseball game, with Klaus mumbling to Ben whenever he sees somewhere he might want to eat at later. Ben proceeds to respond not by making a dinner suggestion but by reminding Klaus that he left the folder with the case information on the plane. Klaus shrugs, reminding his dead brother that he wouldn’t have read it anyway, so it doesn’t matter, and then they fall into silence. Klaus doesn’t miss Charlie’s quick glances at him through the rearview mirror.“So, uh, if you don’t mind me asking,” Charlie pipes up, and Klaus looks up at him. “Is it true that… you can actually see ghosts?”“Yeah, yeah, I see all the ghosties,” Klaus nods with a half-grin, and Charlie’s eyes widen.“Wow—it’s so cool to meet you, by the way—I was a big fan of the Academy when I was younger,” Charlie continues. “Though, I don’t remember you being as involved as the others.”Klaus remembers all too well being looked over in favor of his other siblings, and sure, he understands why—nobody wants to interview the  lookout of all people. Though he didn’t mind not being in the spotlight as much as his brothers or sister, it still stung to be the useless one, the disappointment. “I guess you could say I wasn’t... built for The Umbrella Academy,” Klaus says, doing his best to not let the fact that it bothers him show on his face. Ben, however, knows very well his feelings on the Academy, and his face deepens with sympathy. As if Ben has anything to be sympathetic over—he’s the one who died as a result of their father’s misguided attempt to create a well-functioning child superhero team. “You do really good work now, though,” Charlie seems to have picked up on the shift of air in the car. “So many people given the justice they deserve. Hey, what’s one of the most famous cases you’ve solved?”Klaus ponders over the question for a moment. “Well, I’ve solved so many cases that I can’t remember all of them,” he says, “but I was able to speak to Nicole Brown Simpson a few years ago and she had many… unkind words regarding her ex-husband.”“So he did do it?”“Oh, of course, he did.”Charlie chuckles, and Klaus fiddles with his coat buttons. “You know, one of my brothers is a ghost, and he’s sitting right next to me,” Klaus says suddenly, and the smile on Charlie’s face falls a little. “He’s asking if you wouldn’t mind changing the station to something… pop.”Charlie glances at the empty seat next to Klaus like many do when realizing there’s a ghost sitting in their presence, before nodding and reaching over to change the radio station.“You’re an asshole,” Ben rolls his eyes, not even bothering to look up from his book. “Ben, tell me something new, why don’t you?” 
 Charlie parks the car in front of the house Klaus has been summoned to, settling in to wait because he knows he’ll be responsible for Klaus for the rest of the time he’s in Chicago.“Poor guy,” Ben mutters, and Klaus makes his brother solid long enough to slap him on the arm. Multiple police cars are sitting outside the old, two-story house that they’re about to go into. He slips on a pair of sunglasses once he notices the reporters who are all standing behind the police tape that goes around the perimeter of the house, all watching him step out of the car like hawks watching a mouse, and he makes sure to not make any unflattering faces lest the flashing cameras manage to capture a horrible photo of him. Klaus has no idea how Allison actually  wanted  this to be her life—this lifestyle is  draining, and he’s not even at her level of fame. Chicago PD’s lead detective, Detective Lorianne Nelson, waits for him just outside of the police tape, her hair tied up in a ponytail, and her sunglasses resting on the bridge of her nose. She visibly smiles with relief when she notices Klaus walking towards her, much like all of his clients do when he shows his pretty face. A middle-aged woman is standing next to Detective Nelson, a woman who looks put together enough considering the circumstances, although the skin around her eyes is stained with black mascara. Most likely the wife of the victim—not that Klaus knows for sure, he didn’t read the file. “This is the third time I’ve seen you in two weeks, Detective,” Klaus grins while raising an eyebrow. “What the hell is going on in Chicago?”“I don’t know,” Detective Nelson admits with a sigh, and Klaus can see the tiredness in her expression even past the sunglasses. “Crime rates always rise this time of year here. Certainly keeps me busy.”“I can tell,” Klaus says before clapping his hands together. “Alright, shall we begin?”“Yes, we shall. Klaus, this is Marsha Walker, David’s wife,” Detective Nelson says, gesturing towards the woman standing next to her. Klaus offers his hand out, flashy rings, tattoos, and all, and she shakes it with a small, polite smile. “Mrs. Walker, this is Detective Klaus Hargreeves. He’s a former member of the Umbrella Academy and he can speak to the dead. He’ll be attempting to summon your husband to talk with him and ask him about the circumstances of his death.”“At your service, ma’am,” Klaus smiles, raising his hand to his forehead in mock salute. “Now, before we get started, are there any important details regarding your husband or his death that I should know about?”“Wait, I thought they gave you a file?” Detective Nelson frowns.“They did.”“...did you read it? Everything important is in there, you know.”Ben smirks from where he’s leaning against a police car, and if they weren’t in public, Klaus would slap the look off his face. “Of course I read the file,” Klaus lies easily, waving off her suspicion with his hand. “C’mon, Detective, I am nothing less than a  professional . I just like to get information first hand from people.”“Okay, well, David is—uh, was—a person with a large political influence,” Mrs. Walker gives, and Klaus is sympathetic towards the way she’s struggling to stay calm. “I suspect his death could have had something to do with that, but of course I could be wrong.”“I guess we’re about to find out, huh?” At that, Mrs. Walker leads them both into the house, which is currently filled with the forensics team, who are gathering all evidence that could be used in court. The house is cozy and warm, despite the door being constantly open and swarmed with various people, and it’s nicely decorated, telling Klaus that the Walker’s are well off for sure. It also doesn’t look like anything was taken, but he overhears someone on the forensics team mumbling something about a smashed-in window in the garage. Klaus tries not to think too much—he’s only a medium, really.Mrs. Walker takes them upstairs, and shows them Mr. Walker’s study—the place where he was murdered, and therefore would have a greater connection with. Mrs. Walker gazes at him with wide eyes as she steps aside to allow Klaus to look inside the room, Detective Nelson standing on the other side of the doorway, peering into the room as if she’s expecting to see a ghost already. “So you’re actually going to—going to see my husband?” Mrs. Walker questions, her voice shaking ever so slightly. “Most likely, ma’am,” Klaus says, pausing to look at her. This is always hard on family members, so he does try to make sure they understand what’s going on out of respect—no matter what Ben says, he’s not a  complete asshole. “I’m able to summon the majority of ghosts I try to summon. Sometimes, I’ll get a stubborn one, but those kinds of cases are usually special cases.”Detective Nelson huffs at that, probably in remembrance of last week—it had taken Klaus over three hours to get their victim to materialize. Now,  that  was a long day. “Okay, well, good luck in there,” Mrs. Walker says kindly, and Klaus doesn’t bother to tell her that he never works on luck alone. As soon as he enters, he sees the blood-spattered on the walls and the hardwood floor and lets out a low whistle.“Woah, that is a lot of blood,” Ben says from behind him, walking forward to study the area covered in blood more closely. “And look, you can tell it was a gunshot wound that killed him—look at the direction the blood is splattered.”“See, this is why I keep you around, Watson.”“I thought you keep me around to babysit you?” Ben raises an eyebrow as he turns to look at Klaus. “And don’t call me Watson, that’s too cheesy, even for you, Klaus.”“Nothing’s too cheesy for me, Benji,” Klaus grins. “Alright, splatter aside, let’s chat with this guy so we can go get dinner. I’m thinking waffles, you good with waffles?”“Whatever makes you happy, Klaus,” Ben says, his words dripping with too much sarcasm for Klaus’ liking, but he decides not to comment on it this time. Ben folds his arms and leans back onto the desk as Klaus moves to stand in the middle of the room. Klaus concentrates for a couple of moments, and then his fists are glowing blue, bathing the room in its glow, and then he begins searching for the correct soul to summon. (Once or twice, he’s accidentally summoned the wrong person. That was awkward, to say the least.)“David Walker, you there? I summon thee to speak to me!” The blue light gets stronger, and suddenly the outline of a man starts to form three feet away from where Klaus is standing. Klaus continues to push, well aware that he looks like he’s in the middle of taking a shit, and the man becomes less and less transparent as he does. David Walker is standing in front of him, and Klaus’ hands stop glowing. “Um… who are you? What’s going on?” David asks nervously. There’s a gunshot wound in his upper left temple, covering his entire left side of his face with blood—Ben was right, like always. Klaus grimaces at the sight of the man, because even though he’s been doing this for years now, seeing gruesome injuries like that never fail to make him feel sick. “Hi, David,” Klaus says gently, softly, Mrs. Walker gasping from behind him. It’s always hard, explaining to ghosts that they’re dead. Some take it better than others. “You’re in your study, and we’re trying to solve your murder.”“M-Murder?” David’s eyes widen to the size of saucers, and Klaus winces. “You get smoother every time, Klaus,” Ben says. David looks between the two of them, his expression frantic, on the border of hysterical.Damnit, these always end up taking longer. “Shut up, Ben.”It ends up taking ten minutes to calm David down enough to ask him questions about his death. “I was reading in my study, Frankenstein, to be specific—”“I love that book!” Ben exclaims, and both of their faces brighten. “So do I, it’s a great piece of literature,” David agrees, and Klaus wants to groan because this is cutting into his waffle time now for sure. “I’m able to relate to it so well—you know, I’m kind of a monster myself, so I’m able to empathize with—”“Okay, that’s enough nerding out, guys,” Klaus cuts into the conversation, causing Ben to throw him a dirty look, but David’s attention is back on him so Klaus could care less about Ben’s feelings on this matter. “I was reading, and I heard footsteps coming up the stairs, but I wasn’t listening closely and I thought it was Marsha,” David continues with his story. Klaus pulls out his notebook and starts jotting down notes for Detective Nelson to reference too. “It… it was my lover, Jaci Stone.”Klaus pauses at that, giving Ben a surprised look, one very similar to Ben’s expression, because whatever either of them was expecting, it sure as hell wasn’t that.“Oh, okay,” is all Klaus can say to that. He glances over at Mrs. Walker, who is standing there chewing her lip, eyes still wide with love, sadness, and curiosity, and Klaus doesn’t know how he’s going to tell her. “Um… and then what happened?”“Well, she was angry with me because I refused to leave Marsha,” David goes on, shooting Marsha a guilty look. “I told her I would never divorce my wife, just because that would be  horrible  for my image, and my image is everything. Was everything, I guess. But yeah, she shot and killed me, and now we’re here.”“Well,” Klaus clicks his pen shut and shoves it into his coat pocket, for once not at all happy with how quick this interview was. “That’s a wrap, don’t you think, Ben?”“Yeah, I think we’re done here,” Ben pushes off the desk and goes to stand next to Klaus, all the while making David the new recipient of his trademark Dirty Looks. For once, he and Klaus are on the exact same page, a united front. That doesn’t happen very often, but it’s sure as hell happening now. Klaus waves his hand, and in less than a second, David Walker is gone, doomed to whatever fate lies in store for him. Klaus rips the half page of notes out of his notebook, but not before signing his signature towards the bottom to validate it. He hands it to Detective Nelson, who looks confused by Klaus’ sudden shift in attitude, but when she reads over the notes the confusion goes away, left with a mixture of disgust and sadness.“Thank you so much for your time today, Klaus,” Detective Nelson says once she looks up from the paper. “This helps tremendously. As long as forensics finds any kind of DNA, we should be able to lock her up quickly.”“I’m always happy to help, Detective,” Klaus tells her, completely earnest this time. “Anytime you need me, I’m one call away. Unless I’m booked up, but I always figure something out.”Detective Nelson nods, swallowing thickly as she glances over at Mrs. Walker. “I’ll take things from here, Klaus. It was good seeing you again—take care.”“Audios,” Klaus says, and then he’s out of there fast, Ben right on his heels. “Wow,” Ben says when they reach the bottom of the stairs. “I know I said I’m a monster, but he’s the real monster here.”Klaus frowns at that, glancing at his deceased brother.“You’re not a monster, Ben,” Klaus says softly, ignoring the man standing at the other end of the living room staring at him, and he knows he’s right. Sure, the tentacles in Ben’s stomach may be monster-ish, but Ben himself is far from it. He can be a sarcastic asshole, and perhaps death and being stuck by Klaus’ side has changed him, but underneath it all, he’s still that quiet, empathetic boy who always has his nose in a book. “Yeah, I know that,” Ben tells him, but he doesn’t seem like he truly does. Klaus nods and decides to push the topic away until a later date when they can have a real discussion about it. “So… I’m thinking waffles, you want waffles, Ben?”“Well, I can’t eat, but I’ll eat with you… in spirit.”Klaus grins as wide as the Cheshire Cat. He walks out of the house, putting his sunglasses back on, and his smile promptly fades at the sound of several people shouting—shouting at  him.  “Klaus, did you speak with the victim?”“Klaus, your sister stated in her book you can’t conjure when you’re high. Are you intoxicated right now at this moment?”“Klaus, look over here!”“Just keep walking,” Ben’s voice comes into his ear, grounding him. Sometimes, Klaus thinks he prefers the sound of the dead to the living.  
 They’re eating waffles at Denny’s when Klaus gets the call. Charlie hands his cell phone to him, and Klaus has to take a moment to wipe sticky syrup off of his fingers before grabbing it and holding it to his ear.“Klaus,” Klaus says simply into the phone because he never has to say anything else anyways. “Hey, Klaus,” Detective Beaman’s voice greets him solemnly, and Klaus feels his heart drop.“Oh God, what did Diego do now?”“What? No, this isn’t about him, not this time,” Beaman says, and Klaus feels himself relax. “Oh, good. So what’s going on at my favorite police department?”“Klaus, we need you to come back home for a case,” Beaman tells him, and Klaus wracks his brain trying to remember if he’s free tomorrow or not. Most likely he is, but he turns and asks Ben anyways just to be sure.“Okay, yeah, I can be there sometime tomorrow,” Klaus says, and part of him is glad to be going back to his hometown. The other part wants to stay as far away as possible.“I think you’d better come right now, Klaus,” Beaman says, and Klaus frowns. “Oh? Who are we dealing with, here?”Beaman pauses for a moment, and Klaus waits, using his other hand to cut off another piece of waffle with his fork. “Klaus, it’s your father. He’s dead.”Klaus doesn’t mean to laugh, he really doesn’t.But he laughs anyway. 
 His plane lands two hours later.The moment he steps off the plane, he’s met with the little ghost boy, Luka, who always likes to follow him around town. He usually doesn’t speak, and he’s always covered in blood and is visibly shaking, but he seems to find Klaus’ presence comfortable enough to stick close to him. He refuses to follow Klaus out of town, though, which Klaus doesn’t get, but it is what it is. “I thought for sure the old man had a few more years left,” Klaus comments as he and Ben walk down the street towards a taxi that’s waiting for him. “But I guess good things  do  happen, huh?”“Isn’t the fact that you’re being called to investigate kind of telling that he didn’t die of natural causes, though?” Ben points out, seeming more skeptical than sad at the news of their father’s death. “Honestly, who the hell even cares?” Klaus shrugs but then rethinks his words. “Well, Luther will care. But I’m sure he’s the only one, and as far as I’m concerned, Luther can eat dirt.”“Klaus,” Ben reprimands him, his eyebrows furrowing. “Look, I know he can be a jerk and a real pain in the ass sometimes, but he’s still your brother.”“That’s the problem,” Klaus sighs as he opens the door to the taxi. “That means I still, unfortunately, have ties to him.”“Just get in the damn taxi,” Ben commands exasperatedly, and Klaus rolls his eyes but still gets inside the taxi.Klaus mutters out an address to the taxi driver, who, to his credit, doesn’t seem perplexed at the fact that a former member of the Umbrella Academy just got into his vehicle—most drivers he comes across at least stare a little before coming to their senses. The driver just nods and drives in silence, which Klaus finds comforting. He leans forward, putting his head in his hands as a wave of exhaustion sets over him. He’s been constantly moving around the country for years now, and even though he’s learned to tolerate the ghosts to be able to do his job, they still haunt him, some in his mind, some in real life. It’s been a long seven years.Not that Klaus would trade those years or what he does for anything. He finds that helping victims get the justice that they deserve helps them find peace and move on, and after years of not being able to help the ghosts who begged and screamed for it, it’s nice to be able to do something for them. He turned his life around finally, getting off the hard drugs and embracing his powers for good, just like most of his siblings. Klaus briefly wonders if Hargreeves was proud of him for finally accessing the potential he had tried to beat out of him as a child. Probably not, he concludes. Once a disappointment, always a disappointment in his father’s eyes, and not even his Number One made him truly proud, but it doesn’t matter anyway now because the geezer is dead.Klaus wonders if any of his siblings know yet.The taxi pulls up to the mansion, and maybe it’s silly, but Klaus tries not to look at it at first. He’s gonna have to go in anyway, but he doesn’t want to look at the house that was an extension of their abusive father, his childhood prison. Ben heaves a sigh next to him, the ghost looking down at his shoes, and Klaus is just glad he won’t have to do this alone. “Ready?” Klaus asks quietly, his hand resting on the door handle.“Huh?” the driver frowns, but Klaus doesn’t spare him a glance. “Yeah,” Ben nods, his smile tight and forced. “Yeah, let’s go. It’s just a house, right?”“Right,” Klaus echoes as he opens the door, throwing a couple of twenties at the driver before stepping out. “It’s just a house.”The taxi pulls away, leaving Klaus standing just outside the gate that leads to the front door. “Klaus?” Klaus turns his attention to his left and is relieved when he sees Detective Eudora Patch walking towards him, and the first thing he thinks about is how  beautiful  her long trench coat is.“Eudora, darling!” Klaus grins in greeting at his friend, spreading his arms out wide for a hug. For the first few years when Klaus started helping out on local cases, he became rather close with Eudora, who showed him the ropes and taught him how to be a functioning human being (the latter is still a work in progress). He’d witnessed the rise and fall of her relationship with his brother Diego, making sure to stand neutral while still helping his brother through his rough patch—it was the least he could do, after all the years of Diego helping Klaus with his persistent drug addiction. Every time Klaus comes back to the city, he always looks forward to catching up with Eudora, usually while simultaneously trying to solve a murder. Eudora hugs him back, a small smile on her face. “Thanks for coming on such short notice,” Eudora says when they step away. She glances up at the mansion in front of her, and she seems conflicted between sadness and satisfaction, because she’s heard a lot about Sir Reginald Hargreeves from both Diego and Klaus, enough to know that he was a monster plain and simple. “I know you have a busy schedule.”“Yes, I’ll be honest, I was looking forward to watching tonight's episode of the Bachelor,” Klaus sighs sadly, checking his watch to see if by some miracle he’ll make it back to his appointment in time. No such luck, it starts in thirty minutes. Luckily, he has it set to record, but it’s not the same as watching it in real-time. “But we all know this field is… unpredictable.”“Well... “ Eudora bites down on her lip for a moment as she searches for the right words to say. “I’m sorry for your loss, Klaus. This must be… hard, I can’t imagine what you’re going through right now.”Klaus waves off her words. “Oh, don’t worry about it, dear, I’ll just watch it later tonight—I have it recording.”Eudora frowns. “Klaus, I was talking about your father.”“Oh,” Klaus pauses, and he must admit he’d briefly forgotten why exactly they’re here, too wrapped up in his thoughts about last week's episode. “I’m  super sad about that too. Devastated actually,” Klaus adds, putting his hand to his heart in a show of grief.Eudora gives him a funny look, obviously seeing through his act so he drops it—no need to waste his theatrics. “Alright, let’s go talk to the asshole one last time before he gets dropped into hell,” Klaus takes the opportunity to shift the conversation, turning back to finally look up at the Academy. It looks just like it did the day he ran away at seventeen and never looked back, and Klaus can’t help but feel like it’s watching him, waiting for him to move closer so it can pull him back into its walls. “I’m right behind you,” Eudora says, her eyes solemn and sympathetic.“So, was the old man murdered?” Klaus asks as they climb the steps to the front door, needing to talk about something to keep himself calm and focused. “They haven’t done an autopsy yet,” Eudora answers as Klaus puts his fingers on the door handle, wrapping them around the knob and pulling the door open. “They found him in his bed, apparently he died in his sleep, but… he was a strange man, so we thought we’d get you to come and ask just to make sure nothing suspicious went down.”Klaus nods his head in understanding as he steps into the house. Almost immediately, he’s met with the ghost of one of the dead nannies that have been here all his life—her neck is snapped, and she’s looking at him with wide, pleading eyes. Another older man who must have died centuries ago phases through the wall, shouting when he notices Klaus has come back. “Ignore them,” Ben says quietly from where he’s standing next to Klaus, glaring at the ghosts as if daring them to come one step closer, and Klaus wants to stutter out a joke about Ben being his ghostly bodyguard but the words die in his throat. The bedroom, he needs to go to the bedroom, because that’s the last connection his father had in the living world. Either that or his study, but Klaus decides to check the bedroom first, still feeling uneasy about entering his father’s study. “How’s Diego doing?” Klaus questions as he begins moving through the house, not liking how the only sounds he can hear are the ghosts that will always haunt this house. “We’re not together, Klaus, remember?” Eudora reminds him, her tone firm but Klaus can detect a hint of wistfulness in her voice. “I know that,” Klaus says as they climb the stairs that lead to Reginald’s bedroom, listening closely for sounds of their mother or Pogo, both of whom should still live here. Klaus never thought he’d see the day Luther didn’t live at the Academy, but he supposes living on the moon for the last four years isn’t much better. “But I assume he’s still doing the whole vigilante shtick and meddling with your cases, am I right?”“Yup, he’s still at it,” Eudora sighs with frustration as if the mere thought of his brother is enough to instantly make her tired. “No matter what I say, he won’t listen—he just always shows up in his stupid leather outfit and tries to play Batman.”Klaus knows too well how she feels—he has also tried to knock some sense into his headstrong brother (metaphorically, of course), and he’s had to watch as Diego lost more and more of his life, fueled by his desire to defy his father, but ironically becoming what their father had hoped he would become. His inability to listen to authority was what got him kicked out of Police Academy, and he spiraled from there. Now, last Klaus has heard, Diego’s living in the boiler room of a gym.“Hell will freeze over the minute Diego decides to listen to anyone other than himself,” Klaus remarks, and Eudora hums in agreement. All their lives, the door to Reginald’s bedroom remained closed and locked. His father had always been paranoid and perhaps even afraid (afraid of what? Of  them ?), and so under no circumstances was anyone besides Grace to enter his room. Now that he’s gone, the door is wide open for anyone to enter, and it’s a strange sight. Klaus stops in front of the doorframe, glancing around as if the old man is going to suddenly come around the corner.“Klaus? Are you sure you want to do this?” Eudora’s voice is quiet, gentle. And if he’s being honest,  no, he doesn’t want to summon his abusive, sociopathic father, not so soon after the universe did Klaus a favor by getting rid of him. But he knows he’ll have to eventually—Luther will demand it, he’s sure—and he might as well do it while he’s here. Ben hovers a hand over Klaus’ shoulder, and even though Ben’s not currently solid Klaus can somehow still feel the hand squeeze his shoulder reassuringly. So Klaus doesn’t answer her, and instead closes his eyes, channeling all of his powers into summoning the old bastard. He feels the power flow into his hands, sees the blue glow from behind his eyelids, and searches hard for his father’s spirit. “C’mon, Reggie, show yourself,” Klaus mutters lowly, feeling his energy draining by the second as he continues to search.Klaus cracks open his eyes and is met with nothing but empty space. “Goddamnit,” Klaus groans, because  of course  his father is deciding to be a stubborn prick even in death. He tries for thirty more minutes, even going as far as standing in Reginald’s office to get a better connection, but nothing comes out of it.Maybe it’s not Klaus’ fault, but he almost finds it funny that his father is still making him feel like an utter disappointment. And really, Klaus isn’t even surprised. 
      Chapter 2: Two
        Notes:
          I had to power through this chapter, not gonna lie, but it's finished and we're onto bigger and better things!
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
  In the end, Klaus gives up on trying to summon his father. 
  Quite honestly, he finds that he doesn’t 
    care
   enough to spend his entire night standing in this god awfully ugly house, unwilling to stand in his father’s room on the off chance that he may decide to stop being the stubborn asshole he was in life and show himself. He throws his hands in the air as if to say 
    what can ya do? 
  Eudora raises an eyebrow as he walks out of the room, but doesn’t say anything as she follows him down the stairs towards the front door. Klaus glances at Ben, and isn’t surprised to see his brother looking almost... relieved, and that in itself is enough to keep Klaus from feeling bad about not trying harder. 
  “Whatever shows up on his autopsy, go with that,” Klaus tells Eudora and he pulls the door open, stepping outside into the chilly March air. The moment he steps out of the house, away from its clutches, he feels like a weight has lifted off of his chest, releasing him back out into the real world. God, he hates that house. 
  “How often are you not able to summon spirits?” Eudora frowns as she follows Klaus outside, gently tugging the door shut behind her. “I’ve never seen you have trouble like that before.”
  Klaus reaches into his coat pocket, pulling out a cigarette and a lighter, lighting it up quickly and taking a drag to calm his nerves. “Hardly ever happens, nowadays,” he answers her after he blows the smoke out of his mouth. “But Hargreeves never plays by anyone else’s rules. I should have expected that, really.” 
  Eudora nods, brushing away a few strands of hair that fell out of her ponytail before sticking her hands into the pockets of her trench coat. “I’m sorry,” she says for what feels like the hundredth time tonight, but this time, Klaus isn’t sure what exactly she’s sorry for. Maybe she’s not either. “I assume you’ll be here tomorrow, for the funeral?”
  Klaus frowns at that because he hadn’t even thought of the fact that there’ll be a funeral. Will any of his siblings even come? Surely Luther will come back from his moon trip, as he’s the only one of them all who actually 
    liked
   Sir Reginald, but as for the others, he has no idea. 
  “Maybe,” Klaus says finally after a moment of pondering. He hears Ben huff from where he’s sitting on a bench near them, and Klaus feels his heart clench at the sadness pooling in his brother’s eyes. Klaus sighs. “Probably. Most likely. If you need to reach me I should be here. If not, you have the number for my apartment.”
  “You’re sticking around, then?”
  “I’m already here, might as well,” Klaus shrugs, taking another drag of his cigarette. Today has been 
    long
  . “How long until this reaches the press?”
  Eudora takes one of her hands out of her coat pocket to check her watch. “Any minute now. I bet there’ll be cameras here soon, so we should go. Need a ride?”
  Klaus nods his head gratefully, and she leads him to her squad car that’s parked right down the street. He gives one last lingering look at the mansion, and in one of the windows, he sees a familiar shape in the window, watching him with old, tired eyes. 
  Klaus tears his gaze away from Pogo and climbs into the backseat of the car, 
  His apartment block is about ten minutes away from the Academy. He would have moved further away, but this certain apartment building struck his eye years ago when he was looking for a place to live in when he comes back every once in a while. It’s nice, for one, with high-end security, meaning it should keep unwelcome intruders out. 
    Should
   being the keyword there. 
  “I’m gonna say it,” Klaus says to Ben as they climb the stairs that lead to his apartment on the third floor. The building has elevators, but Klaus has never been a fan of… tight spaces, so they always take the stairs. “We’re a cooler duo than Holmes and Watson.”
  Ben rolls his eyes but doesn’t argue, just allows Klaus to ramble on as he usually does. They pass the ghost of a man who’s currently crying his eyes out at the bottom of the second-floor landing, his neck broken and his head smashed in. He’s there every time Klaus comes by, so they ignore him.  
  “I mean, think about it, I’m the medium detective with a few screws loose, and you’re my smart, ghost partner who appreciates my genius and uses his brains to help me out,” Klaus continues, not even breaking a sweat as they reach the third floor. 
  “Define genius,” Ben raises an eyebrow in question, and Klaus sticks his tongue out at him as adults do. He doesn’t give Ben the satisfaction of an answer, instead of reaching into his backpack, spending two minutes trying to find the key to his apartment, it’s in here 
    somewhere—
  ah, there it is. He pulls it out and uses the key to unlock the door, and he’s greeted by his dark, practically untouched apartment. It’s been, what? Five months since he’s been here? It’s difficult keeping track of time these days. 
  Klaus enters the apartment with a sigh, Ben walking in and flopping down on the couch. Klaus tosses his bag down onto a chair, and takes a moment to greet Gladys—she’s a woman who died in this apartment about ten years ago, shot in the head by her husband to gain full custody of their son. She died while pulling cookies out of the oven, and so now she’s eternally holding a tray of chocolate chip cookies. Gladys offers him a cookie silently, but Klaus shakes his head politely—the cookies, as good as they may be, are soggy from being soaked in the blood that’s dripping from her face. 
  “Wait, Klaus, do you hear that?” Klaus turns to look at his brother, who is now sitting up on the couch, his eyebrows furrowed in concentration. 
  “Hear what?” Klaus looks where Ben’s eyes are trained, towards the doorway that leads to his bedroom, and he practically jumps two feet in the air when he comes face to face with a dark, and very real, form.
  Diego steps out of the shadows once he realizes he’s been caught, knife in his hand, seeming just as alarmed as Klaus feels. 
  “What the 
    hell, 
  Diego?” Klaus puts his hand to his chest, feeling his heart pounding against his palm. 
  “I thought someone was breaking in or something!” Diego tries to quickly explain, putting his knife back in his belt. “I didn’t know it was you!”
  Klaus twists his head, noticing for the first time that his living room window is wide open. “You’re the one who broke in, man! Jesus Christ!” He takes a moment to calm down, and as he does he gets a good look at his brother. He’s dressed in his usual leather black vigilante suit, as he always is when Klaus manages to stumble into him, and he’s clutching his upper right arm with his left hand. He’s concentrated, always focused on whatever task he’s working on, his eyes always darting around looking for trouble that almost always isn’t there. “What are you doing here?”
  His tone is anything but accusatory because even though he’d just caught his brother breaking into his apartment, he honestly doesn’t care. Klaus is hardly ever here anymore, evident by the pristine shape the apartment is in and the practically empty fridge, and he knows that Diego, even with his strange outlook on the law and criminal justice, wouldn’t go out of his way to steal from his siblings. 
    Like you did, 
  a voice in his mind whispers, and luckily after years of practice, he’s able to shake the voice away. 
  Diego glances at his bicep, and with a sigh, he lifts his hand, revealing a very deep, bloody cut. “I ran out of bandages at my place. I was hoping you’d have some here.”
  Klaus lets out a sympathetic hiss as he gets a good look at the cut, and a part of him doesn’t want to know how it happened. 
  “I do,” Klaus tells him before pointing towards the couch where Ben is still sitting, watching. “Sit down, I’ll be back.” 
  Diego tries to protest, but Klaus just shoves him gently towards the couch, and his brother relents with a grumble. After he’s satisfied that Diego won’t run off into the night, Klaus quickly jogs into the bathroom, opening up the cabinet and pulling out a first aid kit he’s always hung onto—this isn’t the first time Klaus has patched up his vigilante brother, and he’s certain it won’t be the last. Perhaps slightly inconveniencing, but it’s better than Diego bleeding out in an alleyway. 
  When he comes back into the living room, he motions for Ben to get up off of the couch. 
  “I was here first,” Ben protests, kicking his feet up onto the coffee table. 
  “I’m sitting there whether you move or not,” Klaus threatens, and even though Ben doesn’t look happy about it, he gets up to sit in a chair right next to the TV. 
  Diego raises an eyebrow as gazes around slowly, his eyes searching for something he’ll never find. “Ghosts?”
  “Yup,” Klaus answers absentmindedly as he opens up the first aid kit, rummaging around for the antiseptic. Diego nods, not questioning further as he fidgets uneasily. That reaction isn’t unusual—his siblings have always been made uncomfortable by his powers, never able to truly understand what they are. “So. What evil baddie gave you this? 
  “It was a home invasion,” Diego mumbles, hardly flinching at all when Klaus begins to keep his wound, flexing his left hand because he doesn’t know exactly what to do with them now. Diego’s always needed to have something in his hands, whether it’s a knife, the neck of a thief, or their mother’s skirt. “I saved a family—they would have been shot if I hadn’t been there.”
  Klaus hums in understanding. He almost tells Diego something along the lines of 
    I’m proud of you, 
  and he is—he’s always been proud of his big brother’s willingness to put himself in the line of fire to save someone else, but at the last minute he changes his mind because this isn’t a career choice he’s willing to encourage. Accept, possibly, but not encourage. 
  “What would this city do without their Walmart version of Batman?” Klaus says instead, the corners of his lips twisting up into a smile. Ben snorts from where he’s sitting, his book opened in his hands. “I spoke with Detective Patch tonight, by the way. She’s getting fed up with your meddling, that’s for damn sure.”
  Diego stiffens under Klaus’ touch. Eudora Patch is still a sore spot for him, Klaus knows, and anyone who’s not an idiot can see that he’s still hopelessly in love with her. 
  “I’m not going to stop, Klaus, so you can spare the lecture,” Diego says tiredly because this is not the first time they’ve had this conversation. “Saving people is what I have to do, I’ve told you this before.”
  Klaus’ fingers pause and he glances up at Diego, giving him a look as if to say, 
    really?
  “When are you going to quit fooling yourself?” Klaus half asks, half demands. Diego frowns at his words. “You’re not doing this to save lives, you’re doing this to prove a point.”
  Diego opens his mouth to argue, but Klaus cuts him off before he can say anything. 
  “I know you, Di—a lot better than you think,” Klaus’ eyes linger on Diego’s for a moment before he shifts them downward, going back to cleaning the wound on his arm. Once the wound is cleaned, Klaus grabs the bandages and sets to work wrapping Diego’s arm.
  “What are you doing back here?” Diego asks, their previous conversation dropped but not forgotten. “Are you on a case? Nothing big happened on the police radio today.”
  “Okay, first of all, you shouldn’t have a police radio, and second…” Klaus ties off the bandage and leans back, not sure how he should tell his brother that their father is dead. Surely he doesn’t know yet, or else he would have brought it up. Not quite sure how to break the news, Klaus decides to grab the remote that was sitting on the coffee table and flicks the TV on, the Breaking News Report flashing across the screen. 
  “
    Billionaire Sir Reginald Hargreeves died in his sleep early this morning, police reports say. We don’t know exactly—”
  “Damn,” Diego breathes, his face unreadable. Klaus hums in agreement while he packs the first aid kit away. Ben has lowered his book, his eyes focusing on the TV as if this is the first time he’s hearing about this. “Would it be insensitive if I said ‘thank God’?”
  “Depends on who you ask,” Klaus shrugs as he stands up and enters the kitchen, checking the fridge for anything edible. He’ll have to run to the store if he’s going to be staying here for a few days. “Luther would pummel you if you said that in front of him—”
  “I’d 
    love
   to see him try,” Diego smirks, now sharpening one of his knives.
  “—but anyone else would probably agree with you,” Klaus finishes with a smile, reaching into his alcohol cabinet and sighing with relief when he finds it fully stocked. He sends a quick thanks to Past Klaus and pulls a bottle of red wine down, setting it on the counter and reaching for a glass. “Hey, want a drink?”
  “No, thanks,” Diego frowns as he stands up from the couch, TV forgotten as he sits down on one of Klaus’ barstools. “I thought you were sober?”
  Klaus laughs at that as he pours himself a drink. “I haven’t been completely sober since I was thirteen. I’ve gotta keep the ghosties at a distance, after all.” 
  It’s a tightrope he’s danced on for years now—sober enough to talk to the ghosts and do his job, but intoxicated enough to keep his powers from advancing further. He’s well aware that his potential lies far beyond just communicating with the dead; he’s made Ben corporal a few times, but the fear of accidentally bringing the dead into this realm scares him enough to dampen his powers with alcohol. It’s happened once or twice, specifically when the old man threw him into the mausoleum, and Klaus isn’t exactly willing to allow that to happen again. 
  “Even me?” Ben winks as he climbs onto the barstool next to Diego. It’s no secret that Ben misses his siblings, and he’s never afraid to show his excitement when they run into one of them. 
  “Especially you,” Klaus teases after he takes a drink of wine. Gladys offers her tray of cookies over the counter to Ben, who declines, mumbling out a “no thank you”. 
  Diego eyes him for a long moment before shaking his head bewilderedly. “Klaus, you are the weirdest guy I know.”
  “People keep telling me that,” Klaus grins.
  Silence befalls them before Diego stands up.
  “I should get going,” his vigilante brother says, his body angled towards the door, and Klaus sets his glass down on the counter.
  “Back to your 
    apartment
  ?” Klaus does air quotes around the word “apartment” as he saunters towards the door. Diego lets out a frustrated sigh. 
  “How the hell did you find out about the boiler room?” Diego demands to know as Klaus opens the door. His eyes are narrowed in suspicion, and Klaus can only laugh at that.
  “Dear brother, I have eyes and ears everywhere,” Klaus reminds him with a wink, gesturing around him, and Diego's suspicion is replaced with realization. His brother glares at the air around him as if daring any other ghosts to spill any other secrets. As if they would listen to him—they hardly even listen to 
    Klaus
  , for God’s sake. 
  Klaus governs their existence, but he doesn’t have any control over what they say. 
  “But for real, though,” Klaus gets serious for a moment, looking Diego in the eye. “If you ever need a place to stay, you’re always welcome here. It’s not like I use it much, anyway.”
  “I’ll keep that in mind,” Diego nods, but they both know he’ll never actually take Klaus up on his offer—Diego has more pride than he is stubborn, and that’s saying something. 
  With one last good-natured clap on the shoulder from Diego, he leaves, and Klaus leans against the door as he watches Diego walk down the hallway until he’s no longer in sight. 
  Klaus sighs as he re-enters his apartment, shutting the door behind him and going back to his glass of wine. 
  “What are we gonna do with him, Ben?” Klaus tries to laugh, but it falls flat, and he takes another drink of wine to try and dislodge the lump in his throat. Ben doesn’t answer, because there’s no logical solution here—nothing they can do to try and redirect their brother from the trouble he puts himself in daily. 
  Klaus never thought he would be the one worrying about Diego—for most of their lives, it was always the other way around, with Klaus the one being on the receiving side of the lectures. Then, Klaus got off the hard drugs, embraced some of his powers, and created a life for himself. While doing that, Klaus left his brother behind in the dust of his newfound fame and success. 
  Klaus downs the rest of his glass, refills it, and falls asleep on the couch while watching the Bachelor. 
  It's been a long night indeed.
  A part of Klaus can’t believe he’s actually going back to the mansion. After all, when he ran away almost twelve years ago, he’d sworn he would never return to the house of horrors, that he would never look back. He supposes it’s too late to follow through with that promise, having already visited last night, so he figures he might as well stop by and snoop around his father’s house while he’s in town. 
  The first thing he does is get a rental car, not wanting to have to rely on taxi’s his whole stay here. He slides his driver's license across the counter of the car rental service employee, along with a fifty-dollar bill and a kind request to not be given anything ugly. The employee takes both, and while he’s searching through his database Klaus leans up against the counter, raising an eyebrow when he spots Luka, the little ghost boy, for the first time since getting here. 
  “Hey, kid,” Klaus nods in a very nonchalant manner, and Ben rolls his eyes with a muttered plea for Klaus to never become a parent. 
  Luka says nothing, just stands in the corner of the room and stares at Klaus, his bottom lip trembling as usual. Klaus suspects he was born sometime in the 30s, what with the clothes and cap that are a staple of that era. He’s gaunt and likely died from illness around the age of ten. 
  Klaus’ gaze lingers on Luka for a moment longer before the employee gains his attention again, twisting back around to reclaim his driver's license and the keys to his rental—a BMW, hell yeah—and he blows the employee a kiss in thanks before going out to the parking lot to claim his rental. Ben gets in the passenger seat, and Luka phases through the door of the backseat silently. He pulls away, navigating the all too familiar streets towards the House from Hell. 
  “Are you gonna try to summon him again?” Ben asks as Klaus makes a left turn, narrowly avoiding hitting a car who had run a red light. He honks his horn frustratedly before responding. 
  Klaus remembers Reggie’s cold, emotionless eyes and shivers. “Not unless I have to.”
  “Luther will make you.”
  “Luther can’t make me do 
    shit
  ,” Klaus retorts, his fingers tightening around the steering wheel. “Reggie had his chance to make himself known, and I’m not going to go out of my way to summon a monster back into our lives.”
  “Yeah,” Ben agrees, and goes back to looking out the window. 
  He pulls into the alleyway behind the house, which honestly, looks a lot less threatening during the daylight. He parks behind Diego’s car, balking at the ugly green color of his brother’s heap of junk while turning his own car off. 
  “I don’t recommend following me into this shit hole,” Klaus warns Luka, giving him a pointed look through the rearview mirror before getting out of the car, slamming the door shut a little too hard. Luka follows him, despite Klaus’ warning, towards the door that leads into the kitchen, and Klaus thinks the kid is making a mistake, but like he’s said before—he can’t control what the dead do or say. 
  When he enters the kitchen, the first thing he notices is that the house is quiet—well, save for the few ghosts that are moping around in the corner of his vision. The lack of movement in the house isn’t inherently strange—it’s a very big house, after all, and they aren’t kids running around anymore. They’re adults, entering this place for probably the last time in their lives before they leave forever, going their separate ways in the process. 
  It’s what their father wouldn’t have wanted, but surprisingly Klaus doesn’t feel any satisfaction in light of Sir Reginald’s failure.
  After searching for anything edible in the cabinets only to come up short of anything, Klaus goes up to the living room, pausing when he spots Grace dusting the bookshelves in the living room. 
  “Klaus, dear,” Grace greets him cheerfully when she notices his presence. “It’s so great to see you!”
  “It’s good to see you too, Mom,” Klaus grins and waves. Klaus hadn’t had a strong relationship with his mother, given the fact that he’s always been painfully aware that she’s a robot built by their father to keep an eye on them, but she’s a maternal figure and he’ll always appreciate everything she’s done for them all. Diego is, of course, another story—the biggest mama’s boy Klaus has ever seen. 
  Speaking of Diego, the man himself comes into the room, presumably looking for Grace, and he stops when he sees Klaus.
  “Long time, no see, brother!” Klaus laughs as if it’s a joke and not a fact. Diego rolls his eyes good-naturedly. “Hey, is Luther here? I need to know if I should tiptoe around here or not.”
  “Yeah, he’s around here somewhere,” Diego nods, his face darkening just a tad at the mention of Number One. Klaus almost groans at that, because even though Klaus loves his brother, he sure as hell doesn’t like him. Luther’s always had a stick up his ass, and Klaus isn’t looking forward to bumping into him today. 
  Klaus leaves Diego with their mother in favor of going upstairs, he and Ben casually walking through the house, soaking in the terrible memories that were made here. Klaus stops when they reach Reginald’s office and decides to enter, curiosity triumphing any sort of ingrained fear he has of his father’s memory. The light filters through the window, brightening the office and making it look less intimidating than it did last night. 
  “It feels really weird, being in here,” Ben comments, peering at the books on the bookshelves just behind Reggie’s desk. “I keep thinking he’s gonna come through the door and punish us for being in here.”
  “Yeah, well, if Reggie pops up while we’re here I’m out,” Klaus tells him, fiddling with the smaller pens and trinkets on the desk. 
  “Then he’ll just end up following us,” Ben points out, glancing at Luka, who is peering in from the doorframe of the room. 
  “He’ll be in for a surprise when I send him straight back to Hell,” Klaus giggles, and honestly, the thought is a good one. What a way to stick it to your abusive father, huh? It gets a chuckle out of Ben, too, so Klaus counts it as a success. 
  They fall into a comfortable silence as they move around the room, looking for anything of interest. The only pictures sitting on the mantle below Reginald’s portraits are photos of himself, and if that doesn’t give any idea of the kind of man their father was, then, Klaus doesn’t know what will. 
  Klaus pauses upon noticing a thin, ornate box sitting on his father’s desk—it’s sitting on the corner of the desk, buried under a stack of papers, and Klaus would place a bet that it hasn’t been touched in a while. He shoves the papers off of the box and picks it up, prying it open with his fingers. 
  Inside is a red journal with the letters “RH” engraved in gold among other papers and a few pens. 
  “Hey, isn’t that the journal Dad was always writing in?” Ben recalls curiously as Klaus takes it out of the box, setting the box back onto the desk. “He always had it out during training and stuff.”
  Now that he thinks about it, Klaus can vividly remember his father writing in this very journal during every training session—he carried it around with him everywhere, whether it was under his arm or open in his hands. Klaus flips through it, recognizing Reginald’s clean and precise handwriting, and is immediately intrigued by its contents. 
  “Nobody will miss this, right?” Klaus looks up from the journal, looking at Ben for moral guidance. Ben just shrugs. “I mean, since he’s dead it’ll probably go straight in the garbage later.”
  “I guess,” Ben nods, eyebrows furrowed in confusion. “But why do you want it, anyway? You don’t ever like to read things.”
  “If Reggie kept a diary, you can bet your ass I’m gonna read it,” Klaus grins eagerly. “I cannot 
    wait
   to discover all of his inner secrets. Hey, maybe I can sell it to a publisher and do what Vanya did!”
  “Yeah, let’s 
    not
   do what Vanya did,” Ben crosses his arms, a trace of a glower on his face because Ben had been far from happy when they’d read the things Vanya had written in her autobiography. 
  Klaus ignores his bristling brother and sticks the journal in his coat pocket with the notebook he always carries around for cases. Not a moment later, Klaus hears footsteps, and he and Ben both turn their heads to see Allison enter the room, phasing right through Luka, who hasn’t moved since they’ve been in here. 
  “Allison!” Klaus exclaims joyfully, always happy to cross paths with his sister. He spreads his arms wide open for a hug, which Allison returns with a small smile. Klaus pulls back, his hands on her shoulders, so he can get a good look at her. “You look amazing, darling, absolutely stunning!”
  “You look good too, Klaus,” Allison sounds a little surprised when she says it as if she was expecting for him to look a lot less put together than he does now. “You really, uh, cleaned up. You’re sober now?”
  “Pretty much, yeah,” Klaus nods enthusiastically, “I’ll have a drink from time to time,” Ben scoffs at that, Klaus shoots him a glare, “but I’ve been off the hard stuff for seven years, now. Had to, for work and shit. Couldn’t live on the streets forever, after all.”
  Allison eases up a little—Klaus hadn’t missed the way Allison had stiffened when he pulled her into a hug—and her smile gets wider, more genuine. 
  “Yeah, I’ve heard about your work,” she says, “Detective Klaus Hargreeves, huh?”
  “At your service,” Klaus grins, giving a little bow.
  “Have you conjured him?” Klaus and Allison both startle at the new voice, and Klaus looks over to see Luther standing in the doorway and… woah.
  Luther got 
    huge
  . 
  “Wow, Luther, man, you really… filled out over the years,” Klaus regains his bearings, ready to deal with his insufferable brother in the only way he knows how—by being annoying. Luther is looking at him with an expectant expression on his face as if he’s waiting for Klaus to pull their father out of thin air, and it’s haunting how much Luther looks like Reginald right now. “I see you’ve hit the gym quite frequently, I—”
  “Answer the question, Klaus,” Luther cuts him off, wearing the frustrated look he always gets when having to put up with Klaus’ antics. 
  And suddenly, all patience Klaus has tried to keep for Number One has gone straight out the window.
  “You know, would it kill you to at least say “hello” before asking someone if they’ve conjured your dead father?” Klaus steps forward so he can look Luther straight in the eyes. “Actually, it probably would kill you. Who knows, maybe that’s what killed Daddy Dearest!”
  “Don’t joke about that,” Luther bites out through gritted teeth. 
  “Whatever, I’m out of here—I hate this room anyways,” Klaus moves around his brother, ignoring the stares he knows are coming from his brother and sister, and leaves the room, knowing fully well the conversation was going to come up again later. He shuts the door behind him as soon as Ben has followed him out, leaving One and Three to talk about whatever they discuss when they’re alone. 
  “Luther is twice the size he used to be, 
    holy shit
  ,” Ben’s eyes are twinkling with amusement as they walk down the hallways away from Reginald’s office. “Do you think it’s because of his powers?”
  Klaus shrugs, because how the hell would he know? All he knows is that this visit is starting to be everything he thought it’d be, and he’s fighting every urge to walk out the door and leave forever. In the end, he and Ben go and look around their childhood bedrooms. 
  Klaus lights a cigarette as they do, daydreaming about the bar downstairs. 
  Luther gathers them all downstairs, and Klaus finally gets the chance to get behind the bar and pour a glass of Brandy for both him and Allison, ignoring Luther when he demands Klaus put his cigarette out, because who put Luther in charge? Dad did, but Dad’s dead, so he has no one else to back him up now. Maybe Allison, but that’s it—the majority is against them now.
  Klaus sits down on the couch next to Vanya, who looks very uncomfortable being in the same circle as the rest of them, as she’d always been. Ben leans against the arm of the couch beside Klaus, crossing his arms and waiting for Luther to get on with the “important business”. 
  “Like the way he died,” Luther says when Diego asks.
  “And here we go,” Diego mutters like this isn’t the first time he’s heard Luther bring this up. 
  “I don’t understand, I thought they said it was a heart attack,” Vanya frowns, her voice small. Klaus takes a drag of his cigarette, already tired of this boring conversation. 
  “Yeah, according to the coroner,” Luther says matter of factly, and Klaus isn’t sure why this conversation is even taking place.
  “Well, wouldn’t they know?”
  “Theoretically.”
  “Theoretically?” Allison leans forward, unconvinced.
  “Look, I’m just saying, at the very least something happened,” Luther explains as Klaus sinks lower into the couch, more focused on not spilling his drink all over him as he pours some into his mouth. “The last time I talked to Dad, he sounded strange.” 
  “Ah, 
    Quelle surprise
  ,” Klaus gurgles in a high pitched voice, failing his goal of not trying to spill his drink. 
  “That was gross,” Ben says, wrinkling his nose. 
  Klaus checks out of the conversation for a minute, not finding anything being said valuable, and if there is, Ben will fill him in later. He’s only brought back in when Luther turns to him, and Klaus knows the question that’s going to be asked all too well. 
  “Look, I know you don’t like to do it, but I need you to talk to Dad,” it’s a demand rather than a request, and that rubs Klaus the wrong way—as if he’s nothing more than a medium, just a bridge between the dead and the living. Perhaps he should be used to it by now, but when it’s a member of his family treating him that way he can’t help but be offended. 
  “You ask that as if I haven’t already tried,” Klaus sits forward, and that draws his siblings’ attention. “We spent half an hour last night trying to summon him—and it’s the deadest line I’ve ever come across. Sorry to disappoint, Luther, but it looks like Daddy feels he has better things to do than answer your stupid questions.”
  “Well, can you—just, try again?” Luther presses on, and Klaus sighs frustratedly as he flops back into his previous position on the couch. Luther and Diego continue arguing over the dumbass monocle until it’s revealed that Luther believes that one of 
    them 
  murdered their father
    , 
  which is absolutely crazy, and Klaus thinks he’s a pretty good judge of what’s crazy or not. With that, the meeting disperses, leaving Luther standing in the living room as his siblings all go in different directions away from him.
  Later, Klaus stands in front of their father’s urn, giving one last attempt to summon Reggie, if not only to be able to put Luther in his place because his accusation is outlandish and quite frankly hurtful. 
  They all may hold resentment towards their late father, but 
    none
   of them are cold-blooded killers.
  Yet again, Reginald refuses to show up, and Klaus resigns himself to spending the rest of the day in this boring, insufferable house, surrounded by the family he hasn’t seen in years until he loses what’s left of his sanity because really, they can’t stand each other, no matter what any of them say. 
  Then, little Number Five falls out of the sky. 
        Notes:
          I'd love to know your thoughts if you're willing to share them :)
  Notes:
  As always, I very much enjoy feedback. Don't we all, though?Next chapter should be out in a few days!Thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (37)
  Comments
          Kashiwaya, SummonAllTheCourageYouRequire, Tanisha_Tabassum, Sydd, PilyMon_222, exhausted_pigeon, emmie203, LMaster37, Tofupie, punkys_sis, vita_brevis, Confused_Shipper, pukwudgiequeen, uncouthulhu, RiddleMeThis0619, masqueraderose, beauty_in_aces, koalaxninja, Lyrur123, doodle_7, OreoUnicorn, RoseFoxFire, RedFezzesAndBlueBoringers, Business_Inator99, Yukki79, Justheretoread23, XsuicideXkittyX, VODLIX, hooded_woman213, StormCloud6, UTBS279, maatspam, Edileox, whatabunchofbozos, Skylerlover, Sketch_ice, haileyaprice, CaptainBookThief, CoffeeBeanNirvana, KidWestHope16, Hippomattimus, Needmorecookies, alynsh, maybeitsmaybelineeeeeeeeeeeeee, Naivelywise, the_athenian_pamphleteer, Sunshinemun, Tanza, grantitties, An01, 
               and 154 more users
            Inferification, graungoufa, Hanniecat, Petite_Phthora, he_put_that_bottle_down, stardust_studio, twas_awesome, yeah_its_i, funkyorange, miublaze, QuietWolf396, guitarsongsYAY, ElianaStark, lonely_and_waiting, koudzero, Edsaho_Yanaga, Skyla579, Monochrome_Lynx, zaiphod, BiaHDV, fixatro, IcedAquarius, Kiskamilla, DarthBecky726, LiviaHyde7, Trash1, Clowninthemoon, The1eldritchapple, Luthifer, Tholen, InfamousPansy, Serendipital, Senay, bluetigerlilies, sunbounded_shite, UndercoverGinger, LunaLikary, Living_Fast, kostektyw, iamspookydarknessanddeath, umbrafix, Anpangirl606, heart_of_glass, GlitterStarz1994, zjjamz, clueingforgaylooks, dandyjeloo91, Drew_Brooke, Chloe_Hallow_Eve, OnyxLibertas, Nik0lai, mayasitsu, PhantomZone22, jivewise, LapisAlba, ChristineMarieAndSparrow, Thisisraro, 8_Navy_Roses, KataraArgentum, thedragonsarecats, ghostbythesea, Sciencemage, nearlycurtains, Alissa21, FlaccidMeatStick, WelpIAmAMess, love_eyes_lester, Perfectharmonyloveschaos, hoperise, Itsmi, crilleray, siriuslyrose, Sinfelicity, SnowballSky12, TastyCemetery037, buildhogwartsthenwewilltalk, zeeavis, blacksbear, Alaskabound, dracaenajay, TonksHathtop, svftminho, mamamiaherewegoagain, avvngrzs, Sara_Draven, X23Wolverine, yutaya, omega_muffin, NickFreakinSurvived, SofyreNeko, SaltyAifos, 1M_80R3D, deVice, milefolio, Noreallywhat, probablynothuman, Slytherclaw2005, BarthaG, Feralgay, siriuspiggyback, punkling, jibjaneen, VeteranKlaus, Lunaris_Chrysalis, Gh0sts_t1m3, Elli, midnightinthevast, Immortal_Dreams, angstyteen, luckyloki, Mimiloveslife, Kadez, daydreamer0083, baffledapril, 2tomhollandsfrog2, Otayuri_bekayuri, myfatherwillnothearofthis, Cynical_Sheep, manapohaku2, MrBrightside123, lingonberrytea, Sketchalot, Korilian, karturtle, Kirii115, tearyeyedfloatything, Celestial_Waters404, Kiriyo, tjstar, BrynneQuaylin, Dr_Marvel, Lesbilemon, ohonoda, Sam41999, excaliburandtheTARDIS, pukner, Le_Sab, PerthshireCottage, InnogenRenz, ComicBookTattoo, aesthetic_shitpost, purpletoedmonster, brionylarkin, Nakygua, Broadway2020, Nucci, potato4power, yuelia114, 19_21_14_19_8_9_14_5, ForeverCreepy, naenay, xvii_TheStar_reversed, Noheawilstro808 and checkr1bored
             as well as 
          92 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
                    checkr1bored
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 09:59AM AEST 
        this is a super cool concept and really well written so far! I'm excited for more!!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Nucci
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 10:40AM AEST 
        This is amazing!!! Such a great concept and I love the characterization you’ve weaved into the first chapter. It really sets the story up. Can’t wait to read more!!!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    PerthshireCottage
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 12:28PM AEST 
        Super interesting! Looking forward to the next chapter!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    tjstar
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 02:04PM AEST 
        ooh this is such an interesting concept! I'm excited to read more ♡
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    manapohaku2
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 04:14PM AEST 
        Reginald was an other douche bag. I like Klaus, I'm glad he is accepting his power. Their dad was horrible at training them.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Cynical_Sheep
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 04:16PM AEST 
        Love this so much!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Lunaris_Chrysalis
              on Chapter 1
            Tue 01
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 10:23PM AEST 
        OMG I love celebrity Detective!Klaus using his powers to see ghosts in solving crimes!!! It is an awesome premise!!! I am so psyched to see how thr sibling interactions will play out with Klaus being clean and using his powers to gain a career. That's gonna be fun o.OThe Klaus-Eudora friendship is the friendship I never knew I needed XD XD XD XD XD I am psyched to see how they will interact further esp with Diego in the mix hahahaXDI am def looking forward to the next chap and seeing the sibling reunion! And of course, how Dave comes into the picture XD XD XD
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    siriuspiggyback
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 02
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 01:03AM AEST 
        love this premise!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
              Iona
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 02
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 03:24AM AEST 
        Holy fucking hell this concept is cool. I've seen au'S where klaus helps the police but I've NEVER seen them where he's the leaf. Where he's actually the detective. And I'm so fucking for this. I love his attitude when it comes to crime scenes. He's used to them and is rather casual but he's never ridiculous or being unprofessional. It's perfect characterization.Also having him be friends with Eudora? Chefs kiss beautiful. Also it's gonna be hilarious once Diego comes in. His bro is a successful detective AND on good standing with his ex? Holy shit he's gonna be bitter. I'm excited to see how the siblings interact with this klaus. ESPECIALLY 5. Cause what he knows of the older siblings only comes from vanya's book and well. I don't know how accurate it is especially to this new klaus. But hey that's up to you.I'm loving this au and can't wait for more. What a fantastic hook! Thank you for writing :))
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    SofyreNeko
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 02
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 03:32PM AEST 
        im not used to give kudos on the first chapter but this one deserves the honors
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    yutaya
              on Chapter 1
            Wed 02
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 09:53PM AEST 
        I love Klaus being friends with Eudora and Chuck!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
              Nuleon
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 03
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 11:11AM AEST 
        coNTINUIE THIS PLEASE
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    svftminho
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 03
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 06:08PM AEST 
        this is so good!! I love your style of writing and how you write klaus, can’t wait for the next chapter!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    TonksHathtop
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 03
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 11:13PM AEST 
        Brooooooo this is amazing! I love the swapped dynamic of instead of Diego trying to snap Klaus out of his drug addiction it’s Klaus trying to snap Diego out of his vigilante problem. I am subscribing right now and I can’t wait to read more of this masterpiece. Stay awesome dude!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    dracaenajay
              on Chapter 1
            Thu 03
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 11:26PM AEST 
        this is so good!! I love how it's going and I can't wait for more!!Thanks for writing :))
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    KidWestHope16
              on Chapter 1
            Sun 20
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 04:08AM AEST 
        Fjskkslsl!!!!I lovr this premise!!! I had q similar idea like this but i never wrote it...Klaus becomes a special Detective for the fbi after helojng out on a case and eudora helps him get clean and is his roommate because she's the one tbat vouched for him thanks to knowing diego. But klaus never told qny of his siblings he got sober and got a job because after hard cases he sometimes falls off the wagon and doesn't want to see their disappointment so he keeps quiet and diego knows that eudora has a male roomate but is surprisingly not jealous and just wants to meet her mysterious roommate but he doesn't find out until the funeral when he sees klaus' name on the report for their father and his death being ruled a suicide.But throughout all of this klaus is gaining all of his comic powers on accident while being clean so there is always something crazy happening at eudora's house...Like floating furniture. Roommates falling asleep on the ceiling. The one day she came to work as a completely different person( accidental possession by klaus)Some clairvoyance just because i qdore the hc that he has that powrr  Whoops. Sorry i completely ran off on you .This is an amaxing premis and would love to see more fics like this. I absolutely adore this au!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
              Lani
              on Chapter 1
            Sat 26
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 01:29PM AEST 
        YOOOOOOOO THIS IS SUCH A COOL CONCEPT I LOVE THIS YOU'RE SUCH A TALENTED WRITER JSUSHDHSBJSKSBDJ
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    ComicBookTattoo
              on Chapter 2
            Fri 04
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 08:41PM AEST 
        I'm really enjoying this - thanks so much for sharing!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    SnowballSky12
              on Chapter 2
            Fri 04
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 08:42PM AEST 
        Amazing!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Sinfelicity
              on Chapter 2
            Fri 04
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 09:16PM AEST 
        I absolutely adore this so much! I’ve never once thought about Klaus could apply his powers in the way he’s done in this fic ! I love the interactions between him and Ben and their dynamic you’ve presented in this ! I’m hoping to see interactions between Klaus and Five in the next chapter although, I really enjoyed seeing the relationships between Klaus and the Police force especially with Detective Patch.  Can’t wait till your next chapter!!!! 🤩
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
