      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationships:
               Bakugou Katsuki/Sero HantaBakugou Katsuki/Kirishima EijirouBakugou Katsuki/Todoroki ShoutoBakugou Katsuki/DabiBakugou Katsuki/Midoriya IzukuBakugou Katsuki/Kaminari DenkiBakugou Katsuki/Shinsou HitoshiBakugou Katsuki/Shindou YouBakugou Katsuki/Monoma NeitoBakugou Katsuki/Iida TenyaAizawa Shouta | Eraserhead/Bakugou KatsukiBakugou Katsuki/Shouji MezouBakugou Katsuki/Yoarashi Inasa
              Characters:
               Bakugou KatsukiSero HantaKirishima EijirouTodoroki ShoutoDabi (My Hero Academia)Midoriya IzukuKaminari DenkiShinsou Hitoshi
              Additional Tags:
               Bottom Bakugou KatsukiMaking OutFluffAngstSmutFluff and SmutPassing OutPossessive BehaviorAftercareHumiliationBad Spelling &amp; GrammarOverstimulationPraise KinkBoys In LoveMultiple OrgasmsSensitive Bakugou KatsukiFistingSexual Quirk UseAnal FingeringAnal FistingBakubowlAnal SexSoft PornDry HumpingSize DifferenceTwink Bakugou KatsukiCrossdressingBAMF Midoriya IzukuBAMF Kirishima Eijirou
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-07-20Completed:2020-10-02Words:17561Chapters:8/8Comments:53Kudos:736Bookmarks:80Hits:23133
      Bakugo-Based One Shots!
      LegoDoctor
          Summary:
              Want a bottom/submissive Bakugou one-shot but it's impossible to find? Well I have good news for you! I'm doing requests! Comment your request! Check the first chapter for a work example + how to request a one-shot!! CROSS - POSTED ON WATTPAD @LilSaplingTree !
      Chapter 1: Details
    Chapter Text
    Hello! I'm addicted to bottom Bakugou and I feel like I should give something back! Here's a basic list of what to put down in a requested story!          - The ship you'd like (please keep Bakugou-centric)          _ Any defining changes to the characters.          _ Whether smut, angst, fluff, comedy or multiple.          - Kinks you'd like if you choose smut.          _ Setting you'd prefer.          - A plot if you feel is needed.          - Any trigger warnings.          - If it's a AU please write down which one.- Making a request is not a guaranteed stop! It's called a REQUEST for a reason!                       - I will do whatever requests I choose to do in whatever order I choose to do.          - NO KINK SHAMING!          - Whether or not you'd like to stay anonymous and/or be tagged. My limits are:          - Toilet/Scat.          - Mild pedophilia (small age gaps, 5 is the limit.)          - Inflation.          - Mild Rape/NonCon. WARNING: I HAVE A HABIT OF MAKING THE CHARACTERS IN LOVE/CRUSHING ON EACH OTHER OTHERWISE MY FEELINGS GET HURT. Here's an example of how I write! (I've only written smut twice, so gimme a break)...Katsuki huffed quietly, humming a tune as he walked down the hallway. He ha originally been sitting with Kirishima and his friends, but he felt awkward being with the cheery people; not to mention they were all older. The blonde was new to the school, so as the rest of his grade as he was a freshmen. He didn't exactly like his classmates, already having a less-than-acquaintances relationship going on with most of them. Kirishima was just an idiot who was meant to show him around, as all freshman where given a sophomore to guide them around the school and get them used to everything, but Kirishima wasn't the best at that and ended up spending their time he was meant to use to show the blonde around introducing him to his own klutz friends...The blonde was fine with it honestly. He already knew the school like the back of his hands and could already flow to each of his classrooms with ease. The only thing Katsuki noticed he had to avoid where his peers, as they had somehow deemed him the Goth, even though he wore relatively normal clothes. So what if they were a few shades darker? He wasn't looking to be an eye sore. After all, he grew up with a model and fashion designers for parents; so making himself have a distinct style was just bound to happen.Katsuki chewed his lip, not so much out of anxiousness or anxiety but just of pure habit that had been born out of boredom. He entered the classroom, grateful the room was empty. It wasn't far into lunch, maybe five or ten minutes in but no more than twelve he'd guess. Ten was even a stretch with how quickly had had decided to leave.He slunk into his usual seat, flicking open his book before scanning across the page and deciding which material was worth noting and studying, which questions he would value knowing the answer too. Katsuki clicked on his pen with the desk, his note book opening up to a fresh clean page. The blonde wrote the date in the upper left corner, writing at the top the subject, chapter and pages of the book he was now working on.Katsuki's pen ran easily along the pages, the small sentences slowly moulding into in depth explanations and not even thinking of skimming over each of the answers. He bit his tongue, not hard enough to hurt of bleed but just enough to have that grounding kind of pressure on himself. He was never one to inflict pain or damage on himself, but occasionally he'd let himself bite that slightest bit to hard, or pinch his skin enough to leave this indents of his nails. It wasn't for hatred against himself, just a subconscious kind of act he did.The blonde's blazing red eyes glared over at the door as he heard it open, the annoying scrape of wood echoing and ricocheting around the now nearly empty room. Katsuki barely stifled down his furious groan of annoyance of being disturbed. It didn't matter who it was, he'd still yell at them to leave him the fuck alone if they tried to start up some half-assed horribly forced kind of small talk they thought was needed.Katsuki looked back at his work, noticing he had stopped writing mid-sentence, making him slightly unsure of what he had intended to write. He stared at the paper for a while, re-reading the sentence until his mind seemed to supply the answer. Katsuki wrote the answer smoothly, his hand writing scarily neat for how quickly he was writing. Katsuki looked at whoever was at the door way, not even lifting his head and griping his pen harder as he made sure the asshole wasn't staring or looking at him before he paid attention to the rest of whoever it was.The person standing there was tall, his hair was similar to the ink he wrote with, and the hair looking messied in a devilishly handsome way; similar to how Katsuki had his own. They had piercings covering the majority of their ears, as well as two snake bite rings that hooked around their lips. Three more piercings on his right nostril, resembling a triangle. They didn't look odd with all the metal on them, though they definitely oozed off a vibe of danger, as well a slight casual air to them that showed they knew they were attractive. Their outfit wasn't all too special, a black and white vertically striped shirt that was tucked in at the front into inky black jeans. The jeans where clearly brought a size up to accommodate his long legs as they still had a certain bagginess to them, a fitting black jacket tied off the look.Katsuki huffed. The stranger definitely didn't dress badly, though Katsuki was sure they had went through a few trails and errors to get to this point. The blonde looked back up at the others face, though his immediately locked with bold freezing cold blue, making a chill rake it's way down Katsuki's spine. It was Dabi. The school "bad boy" senior who was surprisingly smart, though he was a total flirt. Katsuki would be lying if he said a rush of electricity didn't run straight to his dick.He chose to flash his crimson eyes back to his work, opting to remove his gaze as quickly as possible to seem casual, though he was sure with how his shoulder tensed up Dabi could tell he was at least uncomfortable. Katsuki swallowed harshly, biting down on his tongue hard enough to jolt a small spike of pain. Those cold eyes were definitely still on him. You couldn't say they weren't; he could feel the gaze burn into his flesh, feeling like some kind of deadly hot yet freezing fire.Katsuki paid his attention towards his writing, deciding he won't stare at the other if he's hyper fixated on his task at hand. Maybe the other would leave? It would make sense to go off and leave the blonde, as this one was clearly occupied and there were plenty of free classrooms to be used. He made sure to still keep a mental track on the raven to prevent them from sneaking up or surprising him.The door closed, the familiar scrap of wooden once again filling the room. The blonde waited a few heartbeats, making sure the other had left the room before calming slightly. Katsuki let out a small breath he hadn't even noticed he was holding, his shoulder un-tensing themselves as he allowed his posture to sink further into the chair, closing his eyes in peace. Dabi had left. Now he was free to continue his studying and note taking in peace.Then all his books slid to the floor.What. The. Actual. Fuck!Katsuki's eyes shot up, his back immediately straightening out, his bright red gaze glaring over to the offender in front of him. So Dabi hadn't left after all... how did he stay so quiet? More importantly, how did he not notice the other male flow over to him to the point he could stand directly in-fucking-front of him without him even sensing it?"You asshole!" Katsuki snarled at the other, standing up so quickly his chair fell to the ground, making a loud, thundering clatter ring out in the classroom. "I was working on that you rotten shit bag!" The blonde grumbled, his knuckles turning white as he felt red hot anger bubble up inside him, making him feel like burning coal was pressing into his skin. It was obvious Katsuki was approximately two seconds away from punching this guys lights' out.The blonde didn't give him an option for response, choosing to just ignore his anger and go on to scoop up his belongings. Katsuki got onto is knees, feeling them burst into quick flashes of pain with how quickly he dropped to them."Aw, I appreciate the attempt Angel; but isn't this too soon? After all, we barely know each other." Dabi purred, a wide grin stretching across his face as Katsuki looked up at him with confusion painted onto his features. What? Dabi seemed to understand Katsuki's oblivious state, and bent down to Katsuki's level. "You don't just suck someone's dick in the middle of school, right?" The raven cooed into the blonde's ear, leading to an aggressive glare being thrown his way at the realization of the position they were in; the older male was sitting on the now vacant desk, with Katsuki's body in between his legs."I get that you're horny but I need to get my shit," Katsuki sneered, waving a hand at Dabi like he was some fly he was try to shoo away, leaning towards his work book h before his fingertips even brushed over it, he gave another sharp glare to the other; full of hatred. "Y'know, the shit you fucking kicked." The blonde hissed out, similar to one of a cats, and turned his head back to his books, to which Dabi kicked away with the tip of his shoe. The boys watched as it slid across the room and under desks."Congrats, you're a fucking dumb ass. Do you want a round of applause?" The blonde ground out, slowly getting up with his jaw tightly shut. Katsuki knew that if he added just a bit more pressure they'd shatter like glass under the force. Katsuki couldn't help but nearly let out a breathy gasp as a hand tightened around his shoulder, just enough to secure him in place and not hurt him. "You look like an off brand Oreo that was left out in the sun for too long.""Aw, Angel...” Dabi cooed, pressing a /kiss/ to Katsuki's pulse point making the blondes' brain stutter temporarily, nipping it lightly under his teeth to just show he could sink his teeth in and make it pause permanently. "That's so rude, you really shouldn't insult people," Dabi hummed thoughtfully, his other hand resting on the others hips, though his fingertips brushed ever so slightly to close to the edge of Katsuki's black ripped skinny jeans that could barely be called jeans with the large gaping holes.Katsuki cleared his throat, his arms folding across his chest as a pout crossed over his lips, making his brows furrow together. "Shut up. 'S not an insult if I'm just describing you." He reasoned, huffing and flicking his gaze back to the book that had been flung around the classroom. A flash of burning hot anger crawled under his skin, though it dissipated quickly as soft kisses where pressed to the back of his neck."What do you think you're doing?" Katsuki asked, his voice sounding hostile as he refused to show his very minor interest in the other. He let out a nonchalant huff, though he was really just trying to calm himself down and prevent the blush from spreading."What's it look like?" He replied smoothly, Dabi's cold fingers running across the other's skin and dancing along the waist band of Katsuki's jeans. The blonde quivered slightly. Dabi pressed his lips into the younger males skin, making the latter blush brightly. "Katsuki, do you remember me?" The raven asked quietly, their smirk audible in his tone."Am I meant to?" Katsuki growled out, rolling his eyes to the side."You really don't remember your first boyfriend? I feel so betrayed," Dabi cooed. Katsuki immediately spinning his head around to face the other, his body staying in the same place while a small disbelieving smile playing on the corners of his lips."Touya? I swear if it's not you to fuc-" Katsuki started, though his words died on his tongue as the other kissed him deeply, their lips colliding. Their tongues danced together aggressively, fighting for dominance inside each others mouths. Katsuki felt a high pitch noise bubble up inside him as he felt a cold metal ball rub at his mouth lightly.Dabi bit Katsuki's lip, just enough to let him pull it out and break the kiss as he stood up. The blonde craned his neck upwards to the other, though the raven took the memo with ease he swooped down to capture the sweet kiss swollen lips the other offered. Katsuki groaned lowly into the kiss, opening his mouth wider as it became sloppier. The blonde brought a hand to fist into the dyed black locks, the soft strands running through his finger tips."Still think it's not me, Angel?" Dabi growled, though his voice held a tone of unwavering possession taking over, his breath fanning over Katsuki's flushed cheeks, biting into his ear lobe lightly. The raven took the pretty little mewl the blonde let out as a sign of denial. The older male pressed his hips forwards, his crotch rubbing against the blonde's clothes ass."F-uck..." He gasped out, rolling his hips back in some sort of attempted retaliation, the blonde's eyes tightly shut whilst his mouth did the opposite, letting out filthy noises that rang out in the empty room. The raven seem pleased by the display the other made, his lips making their way to mouth at Katsuki's neck sweetly. Dabi pressed a hand against the blonde's chest, pushing the younger male just enough so their bodies could press together tightly.Dabi smirked lightly, a low, deep chuckle rumbling devilishly in his throat and making the blonde squirm in place at the noise. "Y'know, I remember you promising we'd fuck once you graduated middle school..." The other said thoughtfully, and to be honest? Katsuki's knees felt weak hearing his own vow being turned against him."Sh-it, I remember it, you fuc- AH!" Katsuki started, though his voice cracked into a high pitch moan as he was slammed against the desk in front of him, Dabi's well formed chest keeping the flushed boy down. The blonde let out a choked gasp, his breath heaving inside his lungs quickly.The taller male snickered, his hand running down to pin Katsuki's to the desk, rolling his hips slowly against the younger tormentingly slow. The blonde let out a noise, similar to a whine as he cried out softly in the classroom. Dabi noticed the others struggle and laughed lowly, standing up right and moving the hand that was squeezing left pec to the middle of his spine, keeping him pinned beneath him as Dabi enjoyed the perfect view in front of him."Now, Angel." He said firmly, his hard tone making Katsuki dizzy. "You're all stretched out, right?" Katsuki heard the words, immediately turning into a stuttering mess because how on good god's EARTH did Dabi know?!"I- y-yes..." Katsuki mumbled out quietly, hiding his face in his arms. Katsuki heard a zipper being undone behind him, his crimson eyes flickering back just in time to watch Dabi fish out his dick. And goddamn was he gifted with a nice ass fucking cock. It was long and thick; it would probably hit his prostate with ease, if he was being honest. He watched eagerly as Dabi stroked it, making Katsuki bite his lip and rut softly against the table for anything; desperately needing the friction more than words could describe"Well, my sweet Angel," Dabi cooed, brushing small blonde spikes from the others line of vision. The normally cold, tormenting eyes now seemed to be glowing with a slight... warmth. Whether it be lust, love of just plain affection.. Katsuki was unsure of. "We better get started." He finished smoothly, kissing the crown of hair on his forehead sweetly before leaning back, pulling down Katsuki's tight skinny jeans to just sit under the bulge of his ass cheeks."Wait! We could get caught you idiot!" Katsuki growled out, his dick stirring a bit more than needed as he had the realization rest in completely. "I have classes in here ne-xt!" The blonde whisper-yelled, his cheeks a bright red to match his flaming eyes, voice cracking as Dabi humped lightly into the smaller male. "At least tell me you locked the door!"Dabi snickered lightly, realing his hips back and snapping them to join Katsuki's; the blonde letting out a filthy moan as Dabi completely sheathed himself inside. "I would, but I'm guessing you still hate liars..." Dabi answered coolly, his fingers digging into Katsuki's hips enough to definitely leave some marks. Katsuki started to let out a sound of annoyance, though it was quickly ignored as Dabi snapped back into Katsuki, making him let out another sinful noise.They continued like this for a while, Dabi slamming into Katsuki's prostate repeatedly, but right when the blonde was near climax he would give out soft, shallow thrusts to tease him. The raven would pepper kisses and bites along the other, leaving small love bites and nuzzling into the blonde's neck and hair randomly before an especially strong thrust.In short; Dabi was tormenting Katsuki whilst they where on a time limit.The raven growled lowly as he thrust strongly into the others ass, the room filling with Katsuki's loud, sinful and pornographic noises that would definitely give anyone walking by a boner- quote by Dabi himself- and skin slapping skin. Dabi grunted heavily, his forehead shining with a light layer of sticky sweat.Every thrust lead to the smaller male pleading to cum, screaming out Dabi's name as he tried to keep himself quiet because god knows he can't get caught like this with Dabi!"Dabi- Dabi- Touya! I need to cum you bas-stard..!" Katsuki choked out, trying his hardest to wait for permission and stay quiet with a hand clamped around his mouth, his nails digging into his cheeks. Dabi let out a noise of approval, sliding on a piece of plastic that he could only assume was a condom that Dabi had opened recently and came quickly, his mind blissing him out and making him blank for a few seconds.He's pretty sure he's passed out as when he opens his eyes his pants are up again with Dabi patting his hair soothingly, spreading sweet, loving kisses and murmurs of praise against Katsuki's ear. The blonde was no longer bent over a desk and being pounded within an inch of his life, and was now curled against the warm, kind figure who was sitting in a chair near the end of the classroom.Katsuki felt peaceful just sitting their, wasting away time..."You're my boyfriend now, right Angel?""Mhm.."But all good things must come to an end. The bell rang disastrously loud, making Katsuki startle out of Dabi's lap and almost fall onto the floor. Almost.Dabi had caught him with ease, a sly smirk across his face told Katsuki that he knew he was awake for some time now and was just enjoying his contact. "So, Angel... I'll so you after school?" He hummed, clearly trying to do his best to hide his obvious affection towards Katsuki. "Oh you fucking idiot! Of course!" The blonde laughed, squishing Dabi's cheeks together and planting a heart wrenching-ly loving kiss against the lips of his boyfriend....It was no wonder Katsuki was unable to pay attention in class, especially when he noticed Deku using the same fucking desk he and Dabi used.now go yell at me on twitter @CryingRope I post nsfw threads / tweets
      Chapter 2: Just A Little Longer, Love - TodoBaku
          Summary:
            Todoroki is a very loving boyfriend. He loves making his boyfriend feel so good he can't speak.Or walk. ------------ORThat one fic where Todo fucks Baku so much he can't walk.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Shouto hummed, his long fingers trailing along his dear Katsuki's chest, his hips rolling softly into the other. The blonde was letting out filthy moans, squirming into the bed as Shouto peppered him in kisses a praise, soft lips gracing gently over hickies and rough love bites from nights before. Katsuki whined, moving his flawlessly pale arms to cover his reddening face. He sighed quietly, a small smile slipping onto his lips as he carefully took the two arms away, allowing him to see Katsuki's gorgeous face. "Don't hide from me, love." He said softly, placing a gentle kiss onto the shorter male's nose. They had been at this for hours on end, Shouto would whisper him in sweet praises and kisses, rolling and thrusting his hips at just the right angle and making Katsuki cum, but not stopping his slow yet deep thrusts. "You're so gorgeous, Katsuki..." The dual haired male sighed wistfully. "My pretty Katsuki." Katsuki's pale legs tightened around the others waist, his hips and thighs shaking from over stimulation. "Sh-Shouto..!" He whined, eyes shutting tightly and hiding the bright ruby from the taller male. "Go h-harder," He said breathily, chest heaving with the clear effort at having to force down long and powerful moans. Shouto gave a sweet smile to his adorable boyfriend, nodding his head and kissing away the tears that collected at Katsuki's lashes. God, Shouto loved those lashes... they were long and thick, framing his already magnificent eyes and making them seem brighter. Katsuki is and forever will be breath taking."Anything for you, my dear." He agreed quietly, his hands now running away from the puffy pink nipples that he was squeezing an instead transferring over to the pale hips that where littered in bright red and pink love bites. His gripped tightened, giving one last kiss to the crown of Katsuki's hair line before drawing his hips back sharply, slamming them back into the welcoming tight heat as a scream was ripped from Katsuki's throat.Normally, they would go quick and fast, not letting Katsuki cum until Shouto was all well and spent. But this time, Shouto thought it was time to treat the other. Letting the sweet blonde cum as many times as he wished, covering him in praise, light touches and loving kisses. Clearly the over stimulation was getting to Katsuki beforehand, but now with the barely-there thrusts gone the blonde was coming undone adorably fast. His hips and thighs where now shaking violently, hands screwed deep into the pale sheet he was laid on to try and muffle out his explosions, his back arching beautifully to the point where only Katsuki's hips and shoulders where on the fabric.Shouto smiled happily at the sight, seeing the over-spent and bright red cock on Katsuki's stomach let out small dribbles of whatever it could, giving Shouto a clear trail to where the cum was gathering in the others abs just at his waist line. The rough pace continued, Katsuki's toes curling as his eyes threatened to roll back whilst Shouto showered him with so many loving words that made the blonde's heart swell."I love you, Katsuki. So, so much. So pretty, so perfect for me. Gorgeous, so strong and smart. Squeezing around me so tightly and warm." Shouto grunted, his tone clearly getting disheveled as he too slowly lost himself in the feeling of overwhelming pleasure. His entire focus had been on Katsuki, pleasuring him and not even notice his own painfully hard and desperate to cum boner. Katsuki's cheeks flushed heavily, dibbles of whatever fluid he was possible to release dripping down the side of his very much limp cock at the praise. God, his sweet baby was addicted to praise. So cute...Katsuki whined as Shouto's right hand let out slight heat, the other giving off a chilled feeling and covering the blonde's overheating flesh in a light sparkle of frost. Shouto smirked, letting his right hand push his bangs out of his face so he could better look at his boyfriend who was completely undone, mouth wide open with moans and filthy noises he was sure only porn stars could make. He remembered when they first started making out and having sex, at first, Katsuki was hesitant, so adorably pure he didn't even know what porn of masturbation was; and now he was a kinky little brat who begged for Shouto's cock. He remembered how when they first started the blonde's noises and faces would make Shouto cum instantly, and now he seemed to have enough control where it only made him rock solid. In his own eyes, that was a development. The taller male let himself lower down, pressing sweet kisses onto the others tear stained cheeks that where bright red from flush. He let his left hand stay on Katsuki's hipbone, tightening his grip on it as his other arm held him up. Katsuki gasped softly at the display of affection. He was always so cute when given affection, always so needy when he got a taste of it and demanding (begging, if Shouto was being honest) for more."Such a pretty boy. You're so smart, such a genius." Shouto hummed out, rolling his hips up against Katsuki's prostate as he kissed along his neck, nipping some of the flesh ever so softly before pressing his cool tongue against it. The blonde whined loudly, body shaking as his face heatened again. Shouto gave the hip has hand was on one last firm squeeze before he moved it up to perfectly cage in Katsuki's head, both strong forearms now pressing now the bedding Katsuki laid across as he ducked down to steal a kiss.The kiss was unlike the brutal pace and quick snapping of his hips. It was sweet and soft, just two pairs of lips pressing together with little to no heated undertones. The kind of kiss that just seemed like a longer peck on the lips, where the two people just barely moved and just stayed as one. Katsuki felt his heart squeeze for the other. Shouto had been insecure about their relationship, would shower Katsuki with kisses every time he found out yet another person confessed to the blonde.It was like Shouto was constantly trying to prove Katsuki wanted him back, and as adorable as it was it made Katsuki's heart break knowing the other feels that way. "Sh-Sho..?" The blonde mumbled, his voice cracking between a badly held back whine. "I l-love you," He said, lips grazing across the others as he refused to break the kiss, feeling his eyes slide shut with pleasure and over sensitivity. "I know baby, I know." The taller male purred, voice changing to sound preditorial, voice dripping with the sound of pure animalistic dominance. The others thrusts went more primal, a half hot - half cold tongue sliding down Katsuki's abs covered in sticky white liquids and mess. Th blonde whined, his breath catching in his throat at the sensation. Shouto slid his hand up from it's previous position, tracing it up and through the mess and past Katsuki's neck, to glide right onto his tongue. "How's it taste?" He asked, tone icy. "Tastes sweet, doesn't it? Not like normal cum; tastes like a candy bar, right?" The dual haired male growled, index and middle finger now pressing down the the plush tongue whilst the other fingers held his jaw. Katsuki seemed to be unable to speak, and instead let his back arch and drool gather in his mouth, spilling onto his stomach again. He let out a garbled sound, too far gone to even wrap his lips around the digit and instead settling for his barely open eyes to look up beggingly at Shouto, clearly unable to take anymore stimulation.He let out a pleased growl at the display or pure submissiveness, the sound coming out similar to a purr as Shouto nuzzled his face in between the blonde's neck and shoulder, biting down and sprinkling kisses at the area as his pace slowed. "It's fine, my love. I'll stop once I cum." He dismissed, moving his hand away from Katsuki's mouth to squish his reddened cheeks, making his lips look more appetizing than before. The taller male pressed a sweet kiss to the cherry red lips, most liking that bright from biting down on them to hide in moans and whines. God, his Katsuki sounded like a porn star without even trying...The hips which once where at a rapid pace grinded against Katsuki's prostate, drinking in all of the noises that he couldn't hold back. Shouto moved his hand away from the others face, let their lips part to let him catch a breath for a moment. The dual haired male let his hand glide over to the one balled into the sheets, grabbing onto it and rubbing it softly with the tip of his thumb.Shouto let his head call back to Katsuki's neck, finally letting himself release inside the other after delaying it for so long. The world basically turned white, feeling Katsuki's scream echo off the walls as his load hit directly into his prostate, milking another orgasm from the blonde. Shouto felt the strength drain from his body, collapsing onto his boyfriend in a matter of seconds.He started to drift off, before feeling three squeezes on his hand. Their own little "I love you" when Katsuki was either too tired or sore to say the words. Shouto lifted his head, an aloof smile sliding onto his face that Katsuki said made him look like an idiot, and pecked the blonde's nose. "I love you too, 'Suki..." He hummed happily, sitting up and feeling the other clench around him at the movement, tears welling in his eyes again. Oh.Right... Katsuki was too overstimulated for him to move without it being too much for him...The smaller male forced and arm to lie over his eyes, trying to bite his tongue as he felt his insides ache with the feeling of pleasure, prostate swollen and puffy for the hours of abuse. "It's alright, my dear. I'll clean your right up, then I'll run you a nice bath in the morning." He promised, slowly sliding out of Katsuki's hole with a whine of protest. "Don't leave..." The blonde said through half mumbled words, bright red eyes peeking out from under his pale arm."I'm not going; just getting a towel to clean you up." He reasoned, pressing another kiss to his boyfriends' head softly, running a hand through the messy sweat covered spikes while he carefully unhooked Katsuki's legs with the other. Shouto stepped back for a moment. He felt gifted, he was so lucky to have someone so utterly perfect want him back. He was unsure where the feeling came from, but he felt a sense of satisfaction at the red and puffy hole that leaked out white fluids...He'd eat Katsuki out tomorrow as a reward.Shouto shook his head lightly, slipping on a pair of boxers on his way over to the bathroom. He quietly grabbed a small fluffy towel they own for these occasions and set it under the water, rinsing his body lightly with water to remove the cum and sweat off himself. The dual haired male turned off the tap once he was clean, giving the fluffy fabric and squeeze to rid it of the water before walking back to the bed, grabbing a pair of boxers and a large shirt for Katsuki whilst he also activated his quirk to warm up the towel a bit more.Katsuki felt a hand caress his face, making him look up to see Shouto staring at him with the most sickeningly loving gaze he had ever seen in his life while he cleaned off his stomach and chest. The blonde always received such a loving expression from his boyfriend, he wouldn't be able to count how many times he'd seen Shouto stare at him with love and adoration swimming in his eyes. The blond let his eyes slide shut, feeling the towel lightly prob his hole as Shouto tried to clean it without discomfort from him. Shouto slid on the large shirt to the smaller male, adding on the other pair of boxers as he slowly crawled into bed behind Katsuki; quietly holding onto his waist and burying his head into his hair. God, that idiot was cute. Katsuki yawned, feeling a kiss press itself against the top of his spine as he slowly fell asleep.-------------------The blonde rubbed his eyes, feeling an absence of warmth around him as he stretched out. He let out a happy noise at the feeling, head still feeling light with happiness and love. He slowly sat up, feeling pain spike up through his spine in an oddly nice way. He rolled his shoulder, hearing the shower turn off as he tried to get up and stand out of bed. Until he fell.It was like his legs didn't work anymore. They didn't feel numb per sue, more like he had run a marathon and his legs where still drumming with adrenaline.That's when he realized what Shouto had done to him. "You Half 'N' Half Bastard!" He yelled, hands thrashing the ground as he rolled his head back to sit against the bed like a whiny child having a temper tantrum. Shouto had literally fucked him so hard he couldn't walk...
        Notes:
          Could I request a Todobaki with lots of praise kink and Todoroki tenderly fucking Bakugo's brains out? Like make him cum so much he loves the ability to walk and Todoroki praising him every second of it?Requested by Madwriter223
      Chapter 3: Put It All In - DekuBaku
          Summary:
            Deku got in trouble for fighting a villain so he was on dorm arrest for two weeks; and he wasn't allowed to participate or do his homework for classes. Katsuki has denied sex or masturbation until he has caught up on his work. Or.That one fic where Baku gets fisted using OFA.Oh!And Deku blueballs himself.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Izuku glanced up from his homework at his adorable Kacchan, who was quietly reading some fashion or hero magazine on their bed. Izuku had recently been on house arrest in the dorms and prevented from doing his homework or catching up in class, and now Kacchan had announced that he'd only let Izuku sleep with him until everything was done. Which felt near impossible when Izuku found out how much work Mr. Aizawa had assigned.But now with his nearly totally finished worksheet in front of him, he felt like it was a whole lot easier that he had originally thought. The green haired male quietly circled a random answer, not ever bothering to check if it was correct more than once before he stood up off the ground, smiling at the blonde who was still heavily side - tracked. "Kacchan," Izuku cooed lovingly, climbing onto bed and forcing the magazine down with one finger, a large dopey smile that had the slightest twinge of something filthy plastered on his face. The blonde sighed, rolling his eyes in annoyance and clearly trying to fight back his loving smirk towards the other."You know the rules. No touching me or yourself 'till everything's done." Katsuki hummed, a sly grin on his face as he had to internally scold himself for desperately wanting to press his lips up into the others... he missed the feeling of Deku tongue rubbing over his, missed the feeling of the nerd fucking him so hard he'd be shaking for the next day. They went from having sex at least once every two days to not even cuddling for an entire month. It was pure - fucking - torture. "I know, Princess. I just finished it; and you remember the other rule we had in place, right Ka - Tsu - Ki?" He asked, feigning innocence as he bat his eyelashes. Katsuki knew of the other rule they had in place... the blonde would do whatever Izuku wanted for the next week. The blonde's eyes widened in a sign of defeat, cheeks heightening in a reddish pigment in a form of embarrassment. "Well; get on with it then..!" Katsuki said, trying to sound nonchalant and as though he didn't care, but the excitement in his voice was clear. Izuku smirked, letting his innocent facade drop as he crawled between his boyfriend's legs, both large and rough hands finding their new home on Katsuki's porcelain thighs. Normally, the near white thighs would have bite marks and love bites scattered all over them; but now they were a blank canvas that Izuku refused to waste. "Fucking- You Deku! Just do something already!" The blonde grumbled, faking an attempt to wriggle out of Izuku's hold just to feel them tighten possessively. The blonde scowled up at the other, though it turned into more of a pout of Izuku smiled lovingly at him, now letting himself hunch on top of Katsuki's to press a soft kiss to his pretty pink lips."Alright, Kacchan. But tonight is all about you." The other cooed happily. He pressed his lips against Katsuki's, though the blonde seemed to have other plans as he wrapped both arms around the tanned neck, fingers weaving into the dark green mess, tugging lightly to try and force his way into Izuku's mouth. Their mouths moved in sync, pressing perfectly and moulding against each other with practiced ease. Izuku opened his mouth slightly, pressing his tongue to the closed slit of Katsuki's lips to pry them open; though when he was unsuccessful he let his rough hands dance up to Katsuki's ass, the touch feather light before giving both round globes a rather firm squeeze.Katsuki was quick to rip off his and Deku's shirts, letting his hands burn his own in his slightly clumsy fumbling. It was adorable, how he was trying to take control even though deep inside the blonde desperately wanted to be taken cared for and pampered. Katsuki gasped at the sudden touch, his eyelids fluttering to stay close as he arched his back to press it towards Izuku's chest. He ran his tongue over Katsuki's bottom lip before pulling it between his teeth. The taller male let his eyes open just enough so he could see the blonde, hearing the quiet barely - there whine that escaped his throat. Izuku fought Katsuki for dominance and easily came out on top, their tongues rubbing together like velvet and danced inside mouth to run along teeth. He missed kissing his pretty little Kacchan...Katsuki turned his head to the side to stop the kiss, gasping for air as he hands subconsciously gripped onto his hair tighter. His chest rose and fell with his breath, eyes slightly watering and cheeks beautifully inflamed from his neediness as Izuku chose to spread sweet kisses all around the blonde's face. They hadn't done anything with each other for a while, and added on top they didn't touch themselves either so Izuku knew the blonde would be overwhelmingly sensitive. Though, Katsuki clearly didn't know that."Want to speed this up, love?" He asked, head tilting to the side as he lifted himself up to sit on his heels so he could stare down at Katsuki. The male is question gave a weak nod, placing the back of his hand to softly rest over his mouth to cover his face. Izuku smiled softly, reaching over to the bedside table for lube. He reached inside the draw, and in favor to stare and admire Katsuki he chose not to look at what he was getting. The couple had plenty of toys and lube, as both liked to experiment with things in the bedroom so nothing got boring.The tan hand finally seemed to grab purchase of a bottle of lube. Izuku carefully coated three fingers as he simultaneously tugged down Katsuki's pants and boxers, the blonde now completely naked under him. "Sh-Shitty Nerd..! Hurry the fuck up," The blonde attempted to yell, though his stutter made the intimidating words lessen their blow. Izuku smiled at him more the umpteenth time as he placed his pointer finger on the others hole, feeling it flutter at him softly as he pressing it in and drawing a long, drawn out groan from his boyfriend.Izuku felt around, feeling the smooth and plush walls push around him and clearly unsure whether or not to try and squeeze him in or out. Katsuki's face was a gorgeously pink shade, matching his eyes almost perfectly. He knew that Katsuki was awfully shy about the face and noises he made in bed, so it was in his best mind to flip him over before he drawed out to many to prevent the boys discomfort. "So pretty for me," He hummed thoughtfully, as if he was quoting the weather over finger fucking his boyfriend. The greenette pulled Katsuki's hips up with his lube - free hand and placed a pillow or two underneath them to stop them from sinking. He knew that Katsuki's knees always got too weak for this and shook to much so it was always best that when they did fall out Izuku wouldn't have to hold them up... although he pretty much did that anyways.Katsuki whined at the sweet praise, latching onto one of the many pillow and burying his face in it, stiffling his noises as he tucked it close to his chest in an almost possessive way. Izuku let another finger slip in, drizzling on some extra lube before he slowly drew them out and enjoying the lewd sounds his boyfriend tried to hide. He carefully rubbed the walls and pressed kisses to the pale back in front of him, trailing them along the arched spine of his lover. He felt the hole squeeze around him tightly as he rubbed the prostate, the sensitive bundle of nerves making the blonde arch his back so obscenely his ass was almost colliding with Izuku's hips. The taller male gave a satisfied noise at the much needed friction before letting his clean hand squeeze one of Katsuki's ass cheeks. God, Izuku loved Katsuki's ass. It wasn't like the rest of him wasn't amazing! It's just the flesh was always so plump and thick, always just a bit to big to properly fit into boxers. He loved how the flesh was so easy to mark up and even /jiggled/ when he slapped it.He squeezed the globe of pale flesh in his hand at the same time as he added another finger, his large hand just that slightest bit too small for it to perfectly cup the muscle. The taller male pressed his lips to the nape of Katsuki's neck, biting down on it with slight force so it was enough to just leave a mark and not make blood draw. After all, tonight was all about making Katsuki feel good. Izuku licked his lips, now having four finger sin Katsuki's ass thrusting so quickly it was almost a blur. Katsuki was no longer able to hide back or even stiffle his moans, tongue rolling out of his mouth with his eyes rolling back, his cheeks flaming with colour as tears rolled down his cheeks. It was a gorgeous sight. "Hey, Kacchan? Want me to add another?" He asked quietly, murmuring it loud enough into the shell of Katsuki's ear to be sure he heard it. When he got no answer, all he could do as smirk. He slowly added another in, making sure it was slow enough that if Katsuki wanted it to stop he could. When he heard no protest, he let his thumb finally go in fully. Izuku carefully made a fist with his hand, feeling the walls tremble around him as Katsuki cried out loudly from the pleasure, almost instantly cumming when Izuku basically punched his prostate.Katsuki whined pitifully, tears streaming down his face as he squeezed tightly around him. It felt like heaven and hell colliding. Katsuki was feeling over whelmed. It was somehow not enough and too much at the same time; but the thing that made him have to force back another load was that Izuku now completely had his entire first inside of him! The blonde tried to force his tongue back into his mouth, drool dripping down onto the bed like he was an overactive dog of some sorts. It was almost shameful how he came again. "Qu- quir..k" He mumbled, head flopping down from how weak and over sensitive he felt. Izuku was almost completely covering him now, covering him with his torso as if he was tying to shield Katsuki from the world. "What was that, princess?" Izuku growled out, tightening his fist even more as he let the hand squeezing Katsuki's ass cheeks give up, moving it over to rub and pull at his over spent cock.Katsuki tried to make out another sentence, though he barely got to saying the first syllable before he screamed. Guess Izuku did hear him...Izuku let the slightest bit of One For All run through his arm, the formally rocking of Katsuki's hips was now making him slide on the bed under him. Izuku smirked as he touched Katsuki over spent cock, drawing out a loud whine from the blonde. "Someone is enjoying them self, aren't they now?" he chuckled, clearly hinting to how cum was staining and covering the pillows under his hips.Katsuki nodded, though it had barely any move to hit as he was more than tired. The blonde cried loudly into the pillow as he came once again, his cock now bright red and clearly painful to any form of touch. Izuku let his quirk drain out of his arm, drizzling more lube onto Katsuki's ass to try and make the transfer out of him as easy and fast as possible. Izuku pressed small kisses all over his lovers face, though he mainly stayed on his cheeks to lick and kiss away the salty beads of water.The taller male carefully pulled his thumb out, knowing not to take everything out to suddenly or Katsuki was bound to come undone again. He bit and sucked on the others shoulders as he finally took out all his fingers, wiping them on the sheets. Izuku purred sweet praise to Katsuki, not bothering to touch or pleasure himself as he rolled onto his side to hold the blonde close to his chest. He slowly got the baby wipes they keep on the bed side table, wiping off the tears and sweat from Katsuki's face before moving down to his stomach, trying his best not to touch the bright red dick that was now obviously oversensitive and painful. The greenette kisses at his boyfriends cheeks, letting the other drift off to sleep whilst he cleaned.  The blonde winced and wriggled more into Izuku as the cloth gently brushed over his member. "N- no more..." He groaned out quietly, red eyes begging up at Izuku. "...'m tired," The blonde whined. "I know, baby. You can sleep now. We'll clean and shower in the morning."--------
B O N U S
--------~ next day ~Izuku hummed happily as he buttoned up his uniform. The training had been pretty hard, though he amazing Kacchan glided through the air so easily! He fumbled with his tie, tongue poking out as his eye brows drew together in concentration, mumbling random techniques under his breath from the lesson. He felt hand grab his pant leg.The greenette looked down, seeing his 3 - foot - classmate stare at him with a bright red face. Oh. Mineta looked angry. Izuku gave up on his tie, wondering why the other had clearly asked or seeked out his attention. They weren't exactly friends, but not enemies either. There was really no reason to come to Izuku about anything in his life that wasn't quirk related. Maybe it was! That would make sense. Maybe he wanted to now how to make his aim more accurate or needed some kind of food recommendation on how to make his quirk stickier or more d-"Can you not fuck Bakugo-Kun so loudly? You kept me up all night." The purple haired goblin whined, clicking his tongue knowingly though he looked incredibly embarrassed. Right when Izuku was stuttering out an apology, the embarrassment left. "But I have to know. Is he tight?"...It was safe to say the Grapist was never heard from again.
        Notes:
          Love your fic!💜 can I request a dekubaku smut pls and thank you! In terms of kinks (I know there won't be any kink shaming but I'm shy...) Can we have fisting... IF NOT! At least overstimulation, ahegao, D/S🥺 thank you!! ε=ε=┏( &gt;_&lt;)┛Requested by Anon!
      Chapter 4: Plug In - TodoBaku PART 1
          Summary:
            How about todobaku aged up to where they're pro hero and todorki one day drunkenly dares baku to have a toy in him for whole day they're on patrol ,and he controls it I live for a teasing todo and bottom baku~☆
        Notes:
          yo! idk how to continue writing this though i AM i going too! but i also want get others done sooo :&gt;
    Chapter Text
    Katsuki lied on his back, tapping his stomach with his fingertips lightly to the music. His shitty almost - friends had insisted he came in on a party they were hosting, bribing him in when they said Shouto - Katsuki's crush since what, first year - was coming. The blonde was more than done with the whole ordeal. It was pure torture. Everyone was drunk and the music was just slightly too loud for him."Blasty! C'mere! We're playing T or D!" The electric bastard called out, wide smile that resembled the tape bitches regular smile plastered across his dangerously red cheeks that was probably the effects of alcohol. "Fuck no." The pale blonde groaned, rolling his bright red eyes away from the idiot harassing him. "Aw! You baby!" Knock off Pikachu laughed, a very drunk Sero swinging an arm around his shoulders. "What are you, scared?"And that was the trigger for everything revolving around Katsuki Bakugou. "You wish you half nut!" He screamed in retaliation, jumping up from where he was seated to grab said idiot by the collar of his shirt.---Katsuki stumbled his way home, rubbing his head with his right hand as the other fumbled with the key to his door. He was absolutely smashed. He felt like he could both laugh and puke his guts out at the same time. This is the exact fucking reason he didn't drink. He finally managed to open his apartment door, practically falling in as he was unconsciously leaning on it the entire time throughout his struggle. He yawned loudly, stumbling over to the kitchen to grab a bottle of water from his fridge to try and sober up a bit. He took a large gulp, feeling the cold liquid run down his throat soothingly and a whole damn lot less painful then the multiple shots he had taken.  The blonde clumsily walked down his hall way, occasionally bumping into an object or wall a few times and took great care in cursing each one out. He continued to stumble his way into his room until he could fall into his plush bed. Katsuki had always liked big, fluffy pillows and an excessive amount of blankets, and many said he was 'touch starved' or some fake bullshit, but he just found it comforting. The blonde felt something in his back pocket vibrate.He lazily rolled over onto his stomach before reaching for the offending object and took another gulp of water. Katsuki turned it on, squinting at the blurry words on his screen. It was from Half 'N' Half. Katsuki's eyes brows shot up in surprise as his heart thrummed; though he knew it wouldn't be anything too serious the bastard had to say. Icy Hot:
You remember my dare right?Katsuki cocked a brow. Well that was vague as shit. He shuffled around slightly to be able to type, though he was sure his drunken state was bound to make errors.You:
Fuck no
Why do you ask Half 'N' Half?????Icy Hot:
I dared you too put a vibrator in yourself for an entire day.The blonde's eyes widened quickly, cheeks which where slowly cooling down now blazing back to life in embarrassment. Not only had that bastard ask something like... /this/. But the most baffling part was he had somehow agreed? This is another reason he didn't drink! He's a total fucking light weight and is stupid as shit when he can't control himself properly. You:
I'm not doing that shit.Icy Hot:
You have too. Those are the rules. You:
Fucking fine
But I don't own one so I can't do it &gt;:)Icy Hot:
Thought you wouldn't. You look vanilla anyways.Before Katsuki could take time to properly be offended- because he was so not fucking vanilla; even if he didn't know what the shit it meant - Shouto was already typing again. The blonde felt a groan bubble up in his throat, seeming to already regret his life decisions. Icy Hot:
Check your back pocket.
There's a gift from me there xxxKatsuki furrowed his brows together, reaching inside his the pocket he hadn't taken his phone out of. His fingers grasped purchase of a large rubbery like bullet with a flared out end. The blonde immediately turned a bright shade of red as he realized exactly what Shouto had snuck into the back of his ripped jeans. He swallowed down the saliva pooling in his mouth, quickly hiding himself under the plush covers as he practically ripped off his shirt and jeans.Icy Hot:
I want you to put it in now.
I also have the controller. You'll wear it during tomorrow's patrol too, my love.The blonde felt his heart squeeze happily at the pet name. He bit his lip hard, groaning at the thought of putting it inside himself. Katsuki had never owned any toys, always scared of getting caught; so he had always just rubbed himself against the bed or stuck in his fingers until he completed. Katsuki quickly yanked open his bedside table, taking out the lube and not even bothering to close it in his process.Icy Hot:
No taking it out or thrusting it.
And no cumming either. I will know if you do.He had half the mind to change the others contact to Shouto; or even Daddy at this point. Katsuki held back a groan by biting his lip as he read the texts, rolling onto his back and flicking open the bottle quickly as he grasped the toy to get a better look at it. He rolled down his boxers so that he could reach his fingers in himself without making himself completely bare. He had done it before he went out, just to relieve some of the tension in him, but now he was glad he did it.He drizzled some onto his fingers carefully, making sure not to get it onto his bed. He immediately stuck to fingers in, making his back arch obscenely at the intrusion. Katsuki quickly placed the back of his hand over his mouth to silence himself; he didn't need to make it clear to his neighbours he was horny. The blonde flushed as he remembered the texts. Right. He wasn't allowed to get himself too horny or cum. He forced down a whine, feeling dirty for even daring to finger himself in his bed as he normally did it in the shower. The male took the toy out of his hands and swapped it to the other, imagining it was that shitty bastard putting it in him instead of himself. Katsuki moaned at the thought, once again having his eyes tear up from the feeling. The toy was longer than anything he had put in himself, so the burn was noticeable enough for him to whine at it. He sunk it in slowly, feeling it brush against something that made it feel like his nerves was on fire in the best way possible. Once it was fully seated in, Katsuki pressed a lube - free fingertip to it, testing whether or not it would hit it again. And it did.Katsuki nearly came all over himself from the feeling. He quickly decided that he would be touching it and pulled up his boxers, feeling dirty by leaving it in. He rolled over to lay on his stomach, feeling his hole involuntarily squeeze it in deeper to try and get more stimulation. It felt so good with it in, and rolling onto his stomach just made his hard cock rub against the mattress. Then again, if he lied on his back he'd probably sink it in further. His fingers shook as he started to text Shouto again.You:
It's in.Icy Hot:
Good job baby. I'll give you a small reward to make sure it doesn't slip out.
If you make it through tonight and tomorrow I'll give you a reward.Katsuki groaned happily into the pillows, hiding his face in it giddily as he was offered a reward! He was even getting one now! The blonde yelped as he actually felt the reward.The toy was just a little bigger now. It formerly felt like a long finger in his ass, though now he couldn't exactly put an object to it. He whined and squirmed at the feeling, the top was becoming more round and bulbous, thought the very bottom stayed thin. It felt so, so good. Katsuki once again felt drool gather in his month, quickly burying his face in one of his million pillows to try and force himself to sleep.The object thankfully stopped, feeling just big enough to fit in and not fall out but still create enough stimulation to keep him hard. Katsuki bit his tongue as he forced himself to sleep, letting is breathing become even as the world slowly started to distort itself around him as he sank in the warm clutches of much needed rest.
      Chapter 5: Not Fuckin' Here! -ShindoBaku
          Summary:
            Shindo and Katsuki have some fun when they where meant to do an interview.AKAThat one where Shindo is horny and nearly makes Katsuki cum on live television... then they fuck.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Katsuki pouted at Shindo, brows furrowed together in his own display of very minor anger. The ravenette had practically begged Katsuki to join him in the interview, as it was targeting both of them as a team and it would look awfully weird if one refused to show. They were now sitting in Shindo's overly expensive car, the blonde sitting in the passenger’s seat and glaring out the window whilst the other drove. "C'mon, Kats." He smirked, eyes flicking over to the smaller male as he stopped the car. "Smile for the cameras," Shindo purred, pinching the angry blonde’s cheek, which earned him a light hearted swat and glare. The ravenette happily hopped out of the driver’s side, waving at the reports screaming for his attention. It was understandable why so many reporters where here, after all, they were the top paired heroes; but Shindo guessed it was mainly because people had been speculating. Speculating if they were more than just 'co-workers' or 'friends'. Shindo walked over to Katsuki's side, opening the door for him and giving him a showy smile that the blonde knew was faked. "You don't need to open the door for me, you Half Assed Vibrator." The blonde growled, getting out of the car and closing the door swiftly. Time seemed to slow down as the ravenette stared at Katsuki. The blonde was gorgeous. The flashing lights of the cameras made his vibrant red eyes glimmer, the gold specs glowing in the deep pools like delicate flakes fallen from heaven, his eyes had sharp black eyeliner that somehow made him look ungodly angelic. His hair was a soft gold, small pieces of glitter Uraraka had dumped on his head still on the thin strands. Don't even get him started on his suit. Katsuki was never good at being formal, never enjoyed wearing formal attire; but goddamn he knew he could pull it off. He was wearing a deathly tight fitting black turtle neck, clearly thin and tight enough to look like a second skin. He was sure if it wasn't for the dark grey vest he would see his nipples budding and puffing up from the cold. His pants clearly weren't intentionally tight fitting, but they were; especially around his hips and thighs, making him look so erotic Shindo wanted to scream.  "Asshole? Did you short circuit like Dunce Face again?" Katsuki growled, getting onto his tippy-toes so he could flick the other in the forehead. That brought him back to reality, seamlessly changing his expression to his normal, fake attitude that made the others' blood boil. The ravenette smirked, letting his tongue poke out between his teeth as a large, pearly white smile stretched his lips to blatantly show the small silver piercing that adorned it.  "Why, I'd never!" He exclaimed, now letting a goofy smile pant themselves onto his lips. Shindo knew Katsuki was such a sucker for that smile. He stuck out an elbow to the other. Katsuki's cheeks clearly colored themselves a bright red perfectly, the other smacking the offer down. "Like hell I'd take your shitty arm! I'm not some stupid girlfriend of yours..." Katsuki grumbled, walking in front already. "Fine, fine." Shindo hummed, easily catching up to the other in a few simple strides. He slid one hand around to Katsuki's hip furthest from him, letting their walking go in sync.  Katsuki let out the quietest growl he could muster. Even he knew not to cause a scene in such a harmless display of casual affection; especially when cameras and reporters where on them. Shindo personally smirked softly as he heard a soft, 'I told you he's the top! Now pay up.' from the crowd, letting his hand drift up to the blonde's waist to pull him flush against his side.  "Oi!" The blonde hissed, cheeks reddening as he gave a side glare to him. The ravenette faked his innocence, letting his quirk slowly seep into his hand to create a vibration near the others hip. Katsuki ducked his head away, clearly willing down the flush from his face, though the bright red tips on his ears gave him away in a heartbeat. They continued walking along, giving a few smiles and waves to the gathered crowd around them. Shindo nodded to Katsuki in what would seem like a meaningless way to anyone watching, but the blonde knew it meant 'We Can Leave Whenever.' in their own language. It was helpful having this, as it had made it a lot easier to manage panic attacks in public spaces. Shindo opened the door, masking his face with a smirk and wiggling his eyebrows for Katsuki to walk through. The blonde seemed to oblige, faking his own annoyance as he walked into the building, immediately being bombarded with questions, statements and commands from the employees ( - and a few curious fans who snuck in a while ago). ____ Katsuki grumbled a curse far too colorful for live television, rolling his eyes and folding his arms across his chest as he painted a pout onto his lips. The woman, who he assumed was the hostess, was chatting off and occasionally flirting with Shindo. The cameras were still being prepared, but the blonde felt as though they were still recording his very moves. He watched patiently for them to stop. Katsuki felt his pout slowly turn more genuine as the lack of attention set in. No, he wasn't the same angry boy he was when he was sixteen who outright begged for praise and attention, but you can't exactly grow out of a big habit everyone had been feeding like that in the span of seven years. The shorter male tugged on his colleagues’ suit jacket, giving him a pointed look before flicking his eyes to the host and praying to whatever god they would stop eye fucking each other. "Aw, Kats?" Shindo purred, a teasing glint forming in his normal pitch black eyes. "Are you getting jealous the pretty lady likes me?" He cooed in a mocking tone, making the blonde fake some sort of gag.  "I'm so fucking done with you..." The blonde male groaned, rubbing two hands over his face but somehow not smudging any of the make - up he had put on beforehand. He watched as the hostess giggled at the compliment, though she still spared a wink to Katsuki as she clearly seemed to not understand he had no interest in her. "Let's get started, shall we?" She said happily, facing the camera with the second most fake ass smile he had ever seen; first being Shindo's 'pretty boy' one of course. "I'm Keomi Mishima and I'll be for hostess for the night! I have famous duo; Ground Zero and Quaker here with me to answer some of the questions you submitted!" She said energetically, the two loops of brown hair on either side of her head bounces slightly as she moved. She turned just enough so it appeared she was talking with the audience as well as Katsuki and Shindo. Katsuki folded his across his chest as Shindo said hello to the audience and gave another one of his fake - ass smiles. The blonde cross his legs as well, a pout forming on his lips at the mere thought of Shindo genuinely being interested in this woman. "First up! How do you think you both work together?" Keomi asked, genuine wonder swarming into her eyes as she awaited the duo's answer.  "Pretty-" The ravenette started, though his sentence was abruptly cut off. "-decent. You need to be better and not use your quirk to annoy me." Katsuki finished for him, earning an elbow to the side as Shindo awkwardly scratched the back of his neck, giving out a small chuckle at his partners antics. "Very interesting response, Ground Zero." She hummed, seeming to store away the information for later. Keomi smiled at the camera as she spoke. "Now, as many where wondering; why would you two partner up?"  "Well-" Katsuki hissed out, but it turned into a quiet when he felt vibrations land on his thigh. The blonde he guessed it was in his best interest to keep his lips as sealed as possible to keep from making any embarrassing noises on live television. He felt the little color he had in his face drain as a large hand crawled their way between his legs, resting right above his crotch and just out of view of the camera. "It might seem odd, I'm sure, as me and Katsuki both have destructive quirks and never really got along in our youth; but when our agencies that we actually trained and battled well together they connected the dots and chose to keep us as a permanent pair in the working field." Shindo answered, flashing more of his straight pearly whites at Keomi. "Ah, I see. Now we have had recent rumors that you both share an apartment together; is that true?" She asked, tilting her head to the side in a fake sense of innocence. The blonde felt the hands press down on his cock, the vibrations slowly making it harden and come to life in his pants as she spoke. He glared at Shindo through the corner of his eyes, though he was already talking off his mouth. "We do. Katsuki said it was most cost effective if we moved in together, as well as working cases would be easier to sort out," The ravenette laughed, nudging the red - faced male beside as if he didn't hate his hand stroking up and down his dick in the most perfect way, the vibration increasing slightly every time it reached the tip in each stoke.  He let out a deep chuckle, moving his free hand to cover his mouth slightly. "He's like my little house wife," he cooed in a soft, teasing tone, a smirk audible in his voice. "He cooks the meals, cleans the house, does the laundry... did you know he only takes bubble baths?" The last comment earnt a harsh slap on the elbow from Katsuki, his cheeks turning as red as his dopey friends' hair in embarrassment. Keomi was letting out quiet laughter, her voice sounding sweet and pure though he could tell she was definitely did not have any thoughts regarding innocence. Of course it wasn't a lie; but Katsuki didn't feel a need for everyone to know he was picky with what he bathed in. "You fuckin' ass! You use up all the hot water and fog up all the fuckin' mirrors and windows in the bathroom! I have to wipe them all down when you finish!" Katsuki growled, anger prominent in his eyes as he glared at the other. "You both act like an old married couple!"----It had been a rather fun time stirring Katsuki up on live television. The blonde was squirming an was hunched over to try and hide his bright red cheeks. Shindo had been using his quirk for the past hour or so on his co - workers boner; smirking every time someone asked if Katsuki felt okay or if he needed to leave anytime soon.  Shindo guessed the little firecracker was enjoying it as he hadn't out right told him to stop, only wriggled and nudging him when the vibrations where especially strong. Occasionally Katsuki would be forced to answer a question, making him raise his head up and fix his posture as his shaky words left his mouth. It was truly adorable how hard Katsuki was trying to hide the fact he was about to cum. And Shindo wasn't going to stop until he did. Keomi smiled sweetly at them, taking a sip from her champagne glass before speaking once more. "How long have you both known each other?"  Shindo hummed softly, thinking about his answer but shamefully not coming to any conclusion. He knew they met at the hero's licensing exam; but how old where they? Sixteen? Seventeen? It wasn't uncommon and even new news Shindo had a bad memory for things. "Met seven years ago. Actually interacted three years ago when we were partnered up." Katsuki replied, though his voice was strained and a few words came out gaspier than what was actually anticipated. The blonde didn't even bother turning up his head, clearly unsure whether or not his cheeks were as red as he thought and Shindo couldn't help but feel a twinge of satisfaction at that notion. "Right! So during the licensing exam? That's so cool. Who’s top and who's bottom?" She asked, though as she read off the card it sounded more like she was questioning her own self - worth; or life choices for that matter. Katsuki rolled his eyes, pout on his lips as he answered the question short and surprisingly smooth. "Don't use bunk beds. Next." He felt a smirk rise up onto his lips, a short breath of laughter making his chest puff up for a heartbeat at Katsuki's clear display of innocence. It was no old news Katsuki had never been in a relationship; claiming 'being a hero is more important' but he could tell that from the shock on Keomi's face that she didn't expect Katsuki to be as pure minded as he was. How adorable. Shindo felt a need to make the blonde embarrassed, not that he wasn't already, but it wasn't as harsh as it could be. He let his palm run along the length of the shorter males' boner, finger tips then gripping the very top and almost pinching it as he took his time getting down to the base. "Are you both together romantically?" Keomi asked, resting her chin on her folded hands as she grinned an eyes - closed - smile to the two heroes. She tilted her head as she waited for her answer, her long brown hair sweeping past her shoulder and moving to sit on her ribs. Shindo heightened the vibrations, placing the ball of his palm at the tip of the blondes' dick to secure his answer in place. He opened his mouth to speak, though Katsuki stood up right in the matter of seconds; muttering out a quick "Fuck you bitches. I gotta go" before promptly sprinting out of the room. He gave the hostess a kind smile, as fake as it was, and stood up a few heartbeats later. "I should really go check on him. He gets scared around pretty women." Shindo lied, winking at the brunette and gave a polite bow before he walked out to find Katsuki, already knowing he most likely rushed off to the bathroom to try and complete himself. ---- Katsuki ran to the bathroom, his chest heaving quickly as he rushed into the nearest toilet stall, slamming the door shut as he leaned all his weight against. He felt like he was on fire, but in the best fucking way possible. It was hard to describe the feeling, but he knew his weeping dick was craving to be touched and release. The blonde grid his teeth, letting one hand press down on his bulge, the other creeping up to his mouth and covering it completely to prevent any noises from seeping out his throat. He'd never forgive himself if someone heard him. He groaned softly at the light stimulation, his head rolling back to hit the door and bringing forth slight pain. He gulped, squeezing his eyes tightly shut as he rubbed his palm along his length. Katsuki swallowed, hard. His whines barely being kept quiet through his lips that where tightly pressed together. Katsuki he moved his hand so it slipped between his teeth, biting down on it roughly as he pressed the heel of his palm to himself through his pants. He felt a groan erupt from his throat as he took into realization Shindos' hand was so, so much better then his own.  The blonde knew it was too indecent if he pulled his dick out, so he just settled on giving himself a tight hand job through his pants, occasionally having to take breaks to calm himself down. He was desperate to just get off and cum so he could go back to the interview, but Katsuki was always unbearably sensitive right after masturbation, so he was unsure whether that was truly the best idea. "Sh-Shindo...!" He whined pitifully, his thighs becoming shaky as he cried out for the ravenette. The male in his fantasies was fucking him with all his might while a rough hand that wasn't his own clutched around him, vibrating softly as praise was whispered into his ear like a prayer. He stumbled forward, his knees quickly growing weak as he almost collided with the wall if it wasn't for his hand. The hand that was once clamped between his teeth was now pressed against the wall, and before Katsuki could properly act on his realization he let out a whiny moan that sounded far to feminine for him to let out. His cheeks inflamed as he continued to squeeze himself, too addicted to the sensation to stop but also knowing he wouldn't be able to keep himself quiet if his hand wasn't stopping him as a gag.  As he let out another moan akin to a scream, he heard someone open the bathroom door. His heart stuttered, the hand that was once squeezing and tugging his dick in a rythmatic pattern was now tightly pressing to his cheeks, forcing himself to calm his laboured breath to not get caught. He gulped, trying to keep that quiet as well as he prayed to whatever god was out there that they'd just /leave/. Apparently the Gods' where pissed at him. Not only did the person not leave, but they opened his still door! Katsuki kept himself facing the toilet, praying they'd understand they should leave the fucking stall before he blew them the hell u- Laughing. Not laughing, more of a chuckling noise could be heard from the male behind him. They closed the door, locking it behind himself and putting their hands on Katsuki's hips, promptly spinning him around to face whoever it was. It was Shindo. Maybe the Gods' didn't despise his very being. The blonde's heart beat quickly started to race, the thrumming feeling banging against his rib cage as though it was the only thing it could do. He hand went limp, falling off his dick as the one that was formerly planted on the wall moved up to cover his reddening face in embarrassment.  "Thought you could get away, Kitten?" He cooed, lips brushing against the shell of Katsuki's ear lightly, just enough to make it brush over the flesh in the most attractive ways. Kitten was nice. The Shindo in his fantasies didn't call him any soft pet names, just his first name. It was nice hearing it, it would almost be domestic if he wasn't horny beyond hell and just caught masturbating. The hands tightened on his hips, just enough to seem like Shindo was checking this was all real as he moved his head to look at Katsuki. His expression was... honest. No mask of falseness or falsity as he gave him the most loving look he had ever received. Katsuki barely heard the words the other said in his own trance. "Can I kiss you?"  Katsuki was too smart to trust his voice, instead giving a small group of nods as he felt his ears burn. Lips swooped down to catch his own. The kiss started out a soft and sweet, presenting how much love Shindo had for him before it quickly turned primal, tongue pressing and probing against his lips as he seeked to enter him. To taste him on his tongue. Katsuki opened his mouth eagerly, pulling himself flush with the other as he let his hands clutch on Shindo's forearms and biceps.  The ravenette smirked into the kiss, running his tongue along Katsuki's teeth and outlined them all as he pressed their tongues together and goddammit if that didn't make Katsuki pop and insta-boner. He pressed the smaller male up against the wall in seconds, their lips working with speed and slight messiness as they lost themselves in each other. Katsuki let his hands wonder, drifting them up to Shindo's hair and tugging on it lightly as Shindo grabbed a hand full of his ass in return. "Fuck-" Katsuki gasped out, lips still working against his own as he spoke. "I need more you fuckin' ass- gimme more!" He growled between breathes and kisses, though he sounded more like he was begging as let out a loud groan at the very end. Shindo pressed his thigh between Katsuki's legs forcefully, almost making the other sit on it as Katsuki now hand to arch his back to continue kissing. Katsuki ground down on his leg, breaking the kiss as he groaned at the sensation on his shamefully neglected cock. Shindo smirked, letting his quirk seep into his thigh that was holding Katsuki up until the other could use it to get off. He promptly swooped down, connecting his lips to the flesh under the blonde's ear as the other rutted onto his leg. "Doing so good, baby. So fucking good." Shindo huffed, his breath once again tickling Katsuki ear and making him let out an ungodly needy whine. His hands moved against to clutch at his shoulders, nails digging into the flesh to what they both know would create deep dints in the tanned flesh. Katsuki felt ungodly warm. His neediness growing in seconds as his desperation to cum surged forward. He clutched onto Shindo for dear life, feeling the other's boner hit his ass every few times he rutted forward at the right angle. Shindo was moving his mouth perfectly, his going in slow circles as he ground against Katsuki far lighter than the other was going at him. As more praise was muttered out, Katsuki quickly came undone, cum pumping out of his cock as he continued to hump against the thigh. "You're acting like a bitch in heat, Kitten." The ravenette growled, an appreciating look plaguing his eyes and swimming in his pupils. The cum couldn't be seen through his pants, probably because his boxers where gorgeously thick enough to conceal it, feeling it run down the underside as it became sensitive.  "C'mon, Kats." Shindo hummed, pressing a soft kiss to Katsuki's temple. "We can't stay here. We'll get caught or kicked out." That barely seemed coherent to the post-orgasm Katsuki tat was currently running the brain. Shindo picked him up with ease and unlocked the door, checking multiple times around the corner in case their where any on lookers.  They both settled for an abandoned office that had the curtains closed. Shindo let them both in, letting Katsuki's legs wrap around his waist as they kissed each other furiously. He put Katsuki down on his back on the desk, scattering a few papers onto the floor as he two came down with him in an attempt to keep their lips together. Shindo groaned as his cock aligned perfectly with Katsuki's plump ass, eyes threatening to roll back from how fucking good it felt.  The two heroes where both gasping for air, feverish kisses being peppered on each other’s every few seconds as they furiously tried to grab onto each other. Shindo reached into his very back pocket, tugging out a small packet of lube which earnt him a well - served weird look. The blonde raised a well - trimmed eye brow. "So you just plan on fuckin' me every time you see me?" Katsuki said, his chest puffing up in his own form of pride as he taunted the other. Shindo rolled his eyes, smirking lightly as he ripped the packet between his teeth and goddammit if Katsuki didn't already have a raging boner who would for fucking sure have one now. "Am I not meant too?" The raven haired male replied, unzipping his own pants as his lathered up his dick. Katsuki snorted cockily, looking far from humble as he unzipped his own pants enough to pull them down just the curve of his ass to show off his hole. His already loose hole from some kind of masturbation session at home. Shindo took this as his own turn to be cocky. "What's this? Where you fucking your tight hole by yourself? Who were you thinking of?" He asked, nipping and biting just under Katsuki jaw as he aligned himself up with Katsuki; basically saying 'I'm Not Fucking You Until You Tell Me'. The blonde looked away, cheeks inflaming as he covered his face with the back of his hand. "Can't tell you... you'll laugh at me." He mumbled, pout clear on his plump kiss - red lips. Shindo upturned his eye brow, raising it enough to show he didn't really care. "Fine! Fine... I was thinking of you dumb ass; now put it in you sh- AH!" Katsuki started, though it trailed off to a loud scream as he did exactly what the blonde told him to do. He refused to give him any time to get used to the feeling, fingers pressing into him tight enough he'd sure they'd make small bruises appear. Shindo knew he was already hitting his prostate dead - on from the whines the other was emitting. He knew he wasn't going to last long as he was holding himself from cumming and how Katsuki's vice like grip trapped him inside. Katsuki furiously gripped onto his back for dear life, biting into the suit jacket as he tried to keep himself quiet all while e begged Shindo to stop as he had just cum for the third time. Shindo gave a small primal grunt, biting roughly into Katsuki before using his quirk on his dick. His quirk was always useful in these scenarios, girls biggest fantasies where normally being fucked hard and fats by a pro hero; though once people found out he could make any of his own body parts vibrate he was immediately shot to the top of 'Heroes With The Horniest Quirks'. Though Shindo understood now why Katsuki was high up in most attractive heroes. His jawline was sharp, same as his eyes. His lips where plump and soft, eyes a flaming red with the most lewd body known to man with his Adonis - like body with adorably trim waist and wide hips. He wasn't as tall as other heroes, but that was mainly because most heroes where giants just like Shindo. He suddenly realized why Katsuki had a lot more horny fans then his other co - workers. He bucked his hips up into Katsuki, panting like a wild animal as the blonde just cried and whimpered from over stimulation. It was adorable how whiny and cute the other was acting and he wished he could fuck into Katsuki like this all day and night until the explosive blonde couldn't walk. Though he let out a loud groan as he came, Katsuki's ass milking for all he was worth before he pulled out. Shindo watched as cum leaked out of Katsuki, making him feel slightly bad as he wiped away the tears rolling down Katsuki's beautiful face in his own form of an apology.  ---- Katsuki was now in Shindo's lap, quietly hummed sleepily as kisses where pressed to his head. It was the morning after the whole ordeal and the two were just lazily sitting in bed, basking in each other’s affection. "Hey Kitten?" He asked, looking down at the blonde, love plaguing his eyes like a sugar - sweet disease. A small, lazy hum followed his words, the blonde not bothering the make eye contact as he traced small shapes on Shindo's bare chest with his finger.  "Want to go on a date with me?" A moment of silence before the blonde sat up, giving him a sweet kiss as he cupped his face. "Fuckin' fine, Handsome."
        Notes:
          Lol this took so long too write and it suCKS heck-- this came out a lot softer then I intended lolbtw any typos you can point out are useful bc i didn't even proof read this :]
      Chapter 6: Gate Keeper - DekuBaku
          Summary:
            Famous singer, Ground Zero, brings out another amazing performance.His number one, die hard fan is there to cheer him on. ORBaku is a major leftist singer that Deku thirsts over but jk jk they're both dating and in love.(Baku couldn't ride Deku bc The Dick Too Thick)
        Notes:
          (btw the song i used was Gatekeeper by Jessie Reyez; listen to it or i eat your teeth :&lt;  )https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VccSRzWNhGc
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Izuku was new to the whole concert theme.  But for some reason he had fallen across Ground Zero, and he'd be lying if he said his jaw didn't drop. The male had platinum blonde hair that spiked up in a neat form of chaos, eyes sharper then a knife and eyeliner accentuating beyond humane levels. He had obvious muscle under him, though he was dominantly lean and thin in a clear display of his own flexibility. In short, the male was drop dead gorgeous.  It wasn't just the looks that made Ground Zero Izuku's number one favorite singer. He was an amazing singer who was a harsh leftist; forming petitions for human rights and called out things other people would be too afraid to admit in case they lost their career. Surprisingly, the male had only formed his singing career a year and a half ago when he turned sixteen, rising to fame at a staggering level with millions of followers. Izuku cheered along with the crowd as Ground Zeros' silhouette walked onto stage, his classic baggy pants - tight shirt with huge platforms boot pairing making his fans scream. Izuku jaw nearly dropped as the blonde music started up the screams only getting louder as the red light behind him started to seep out smoke. Ground Zero was walking with a slow, classy pace; clearly ignoring his awaiting fans as he slunk himself across the large throne in the middle of the stage, made easier to see as it was on a higher level then the rest with a few short steps leading up to it.  The male took the crown that nearly no one noticed on the throne, placing it on his head as he slid his legs over on arms rest, leaning heavily on the other whilst he lifted the microphone to his mouth in a charmingly lazy fashion.  Izuku felt chills sprint down his spine as the ghostly attractive voice sounded out, the screams and yells being drowned out by the loud music. "2O million dollars in a car," The male sang, his words floating out to the crowd with a slight pause between each and goddammit did it make Izuku's heart do a foolish flip - flopping motion. A gold light was placed directly onto Ground Zero, his multiple golden chains shining along with the slightly sparkly black fabric hugging his torso like a second skin, ending just bellow his pecs to show off his pale skin. "Babe, tie your hair up if you wanna' be a star." His voice growled out, sitting properly in his chair for once as he gave a lazy hand motion towards his crotch. His pants rode low on his hips, thought you couldn't see the top of his boxers underneath the black material. The fans screamed, already throwing things at him like an offering to a god. Izuku felt saliva build up in his mouth, swallowing it quickly as he zoned back in on the male. He turned his head from left to right as the song said, one hand holding the mic whilst the other gripped the throne tightly. The green haired male screamed out the words along with the rest of the crowd, not minding as other people bumped into him as they all energetically sang and danced. "3O million people want a shot." He sang, standing up from his throne as he took his time in singing out the words, matching his steps to the edge of the miniature stage before he was standing on the very edge. "How much would it take for you to spread those legs apart?" Ground Zero jumped off, landing in a crouch with his legs spread wide open, cocking grin plastering across his face as he held his tilted gold crown in place. The fans screamed at the blatant fan service, their yells only barely being able to drown out the song as the other half of the crowd sang along as Ground Zero once again turned his head from side to side along with the song, elbows resting on his thighs as his legs stayed wide open, bouncing up and down slightly. He stood up, hand resting in the pocket of his black sweatpants while the other held the golden microphone out to the crowd as they yelled the lyrics to him. "Oh, I'm the gatekeeper." He sang, returning the mic to his mouth. "Spread your legs, open up!" He sang out, slightly anger ebbing through his voice; though it seemed to go unnoticed to the crowd... but not to Izuku. The tall male shook his head lightly, taking it as just his random sympathy washing up and distorting things again. His mother had worked to hard to get him V.I.P and mosh pit tickets in time! He'd be damned if he didn't enjoy the show. "You could be famous." The blonde said, tone mocking as he pointed to a random person in the crowd, walking forward at a slow pace with an airy essence in his movements. "If you come up anywhere else? I'll erase you!" He said, voice sounding angry at the last few words, his hand whipping away as he stomped his foot on the stage. "Drink up bitch, we got champagne by the cases." Ground Zero sang, doing the stereotypical drinking sign with his hand. Izuku felt his heart race as the singer walked closer to him. Ground Zero leaned his microphone closer to the crowd as he sang the next two lines, "don't you know? Don't you know?"  "/We/ are the gatekeepers!" He violently took his arm back, the other flaring out to his side as he sang, his large shit - eating smirk on his face. "Spread your legs-" Ground Zero dropped to the floor, this time on his knees as he leaned on his heels, showing off his dangerously defined abs to the crowd; making most of them drool and squeal. "open up! You could be famous!" Ground Zero closed his legs, standing up and walking lazily over to the throne as he sang. "You know we're holding the dreams that you're chasin'."  He put one leg up on the arm rest, dangling off, while the other stayed on the normal seating part. Ground Zero was leaning with one elbow on the opposite armrest, crown tilting on his head yet not falling off. "You know you're 'spose to get drunk 'n' get naked." He sang, teeth griding in a grinning snarl. Ground Zero let the mic drop to his chest, gazing at the screaming crowd before his eyes dropped on... Oh my god Ground Zero was staring right at him! Izuku felt his cheeks heaten, flush spreading to his face in a matter of seconds and swamping the freckles in a deep red; the blonde smirked. "2O million dollars in a car." He sang again with a sweetly innocent voice, though an overlay of one sounding similar to a demon made the act less believable. "Babe, tie your hair up if you wanna be a star." Ground Zero kept his blazing red eyes locked on his, biting his lips softly before letting his other leg cross over to plant themselves on the arm rest. Ground Zero leaned back, head tilting so much nearly everyone was sure the crown was going to slip off; though it didn't. The blonde was once again turning his head left and right to the song, lyrics popping up on the large screen behind him. "3O million people want a shot. How much would it take for you to spread those legs apart?" He sang, real money falling across the stage and audience like confetti rather then currency. Suddenly, Izuku felt his brain drop into his dick. Somehow Ground Zero now had two large black horns forming on the sides of his head, making his fans scream in pure lust at the sight of his. "Oh, I'm the gatekeeper. Spread your legs, open up." The blonde sang, walking to the very front of the main stage to get a better look at his fans.  "Wait 'till five years down the road and you're failing. Keep fucking these regular dudes that are nameless;" Ground Zero gave a wink to Izuku, biting the tip of his tongue between his pearly white teeth that where shown off in his own smile. He turned his attention to the crowd, crouching down on one knee and reaching his arm out with the microphone for the audience to sing.  "/We/ are the gatekeepers. Spread your legs, open up." The blonde sang, hand readjusting on his microphone. "You could be famous. Boy, on your knees don't you know what your place is?" He hissed out, voice still sounding like pure heaven even as he had pitch black horns on his head. No one he had been branded 'The Angel' by most of the population. Ground Zero's smirk seemed to go impossibly wider, hand sitting on his hip bone as he faked getting head. "Got gold on my dick, babe, don't you wanna taste it?" Sirens flared up from the speakers, song becoming noticeably louder at the pause. "2O million dollars in a car. Babe, tie your hair up if you wanna be a star." Ground Zero grinned, hand moved to sit in his bright, almost white, locks. He turned his head from side to side once again with the lyrics, nearly ass the fans and audience members to understand they where allowed to sing along with this part. "3O million people want a shot, how much would it take for you to spread those legs apart?" He asked the crowd, the sirens seeming to go quieter as he sang. He turned his head from side to side again, standing up completely with his hand in his sweatpants' pocket in a lazy fashion. The golden light faded off of him as the song ended, voices calling out for an encore or simply to be noticed by the celebrity.  "Ight, that's all your fuckers get!" He yelled out, sounding slightly out of breath as he took off his ground in one swift movement and threw it directly at Izuku. The green haired male caught it with ease, his face clearly hosting a dumb founded look as his idol fucking smiled and held back a /giggle/ from him. "Now I know this wasn't your usual last song for the show; but guess what, Cunt Bags? People need to fuckin' realize being an artist is fuckin' difficult with all the creeps." Ground Zero was right. This wasn't his usual last song; or show for that matter. He normally wore quite baggy clothes that hid his frame, normally talking about self deprecating bullshit or screaming about stabbing racists, homophobes and rapists as the crowd chanted to 'eat the rich' with the occasional break up or love song to spice up his mix. And the entire song had purely been, as what most people Ground Zero's age would say, a thirst trap. ----- Izuku smiled, watching as Kacchan slowly eased his way down onto the green haired males cock. It was an easy eight inches and was the size of a soda can, so Kacchan's petite little asshole was struggling to take it all. He watched as the love of his lifes' legs slipped, resulting in impaling himself on Izuku's cock in a matter of seconds. His lover cried out, thighs shaking as he barely got up a centimetre before they gave out again. He watched as his dear lover gasped and moaned, tears pricking his eyes as he begged Izuku to help him for a minute; but instead the green haired teenager just sprinkled kisses all over Kacchan's face, big, rough hands rubbing over the smooth skin on the blondes' hips.  Sure, the world may have Ground Zero; a harsh leftist with an attitude problem who was not afraid to punch a bitch. But Izuku got something so, so much better. He got Kacchan; a gentle, loving and adorably clingy boyfriend. (Who was just barely able to catch up with his ridiculously high sex drive...)
        Notes:
          this was entirely self - indulgent. I'm still writing requests lol. (also i have dyslexia, i don't have a beta + i don't even proof read my work so i live in typo hell!)
      Chapter 7: You Love Me For Afar; So Smile For The Picture - DekuBaku
          Summary:
            [TW/CW : NON - CONSENSUAL SOMNOPHILIA, NON - CONSENSUAL STALKING (PHOTO TAKING, NOTE TAKING, ETC)Katsuki never felt safe around Deku. Now he knows why. ORKatsuki and Deku have a partnered assignment. Katsuki notices a box and uh;;;; Deku Do Be Kinda CreepyTM(lol this is really short;;;;; like literally it's 1.2K)
    Chapter Text
    Katsuki held back a low string of curses as he stood outside of Deku's door. He and the little green - haired prick had been partnered together for their assignment. It drove the blonde crazy at the mere thought of the two being civil towards each other, making Katsuki almost foam at the mouth like a rabid animal and attack the nearest moving object. The blonde swallowed down his pride firmly, tightening his grip on his notebook momentarily before he raised his fist to knock against the wood. He let his knocks he loud, signalling he was here for the dumb ass - nerd. Katsuki clenched his jaw, eyes already slipping into fierce glares, burning red eyes carving themselves into the wood as though he'd be able to look through. He heard loud clattering, clearly the other was stumbling around like a new born deer trying to get his room semi - clean before he came over. 'The nerd could have done that after school...' he thought, more fury glowing and burning inside of him like a fire. Katsuki stared at the door for a few more moments, the sound of heavy boxes and paper or pictures of some sorts being thrown around. He rolled his eyes, popping his hip out as he crossed his arms over his chest in a clear display of his annoyance. Who on Earth has their room /that/ dirty all the time? Katsuki chose to glare at the carpet instead, his slipper tapping against it in a rythmatic pattern as he waited not - so patiently for the green bitch to open the fuck up. "Ah! K- Kacchan!" The annoying voice rag out. He could tell without looking he was giving a sheepish smile, as well as most likely rubbing the back of his neck in an attempt of purely done innocence. Katsuki gave a grunt of displeasure before he shouldered past, though it really made no effect as the other was practically a head taller than him. Stupid fucking All Might and his stupid fucking genes making that little bitch fucking /huge/. "So," The nerd started, walking behind Katsuki to usher him to the table that sat in the middle of the room, absolutely covered in All Might merchandise and boxes... wit locks on them? The blonde shrugged, too pissed off to care as that wasn't even his problem. "Uh, do you need something to drink?"  Katsuki gave a glance to the other, their eyes meeting for a heartbeat that made his insides churn in the most unpleasant way. "Fuckin- sure. Whatever you fucking Deku." He grumbled out, feeling his blood already running icy cold. The blonde ignored it, choosing to flop down on the plush bed instead of the floor. "'M not sitting on your gross - ass floor. I'd rather die."  The blonde watched him do a few quick nods through the corner of his eye. Blush was rising up to right sit under the green - haired males eyes and nose, making those stupid freckles almost invisible with all the red. Deku quickly rushed out the door, his head down with his hands bunched into fists at his sides. The nerd left the room, probably to go to the kitchen to grab whatever he'd assume he'd like.  He shrugged. It was weird being in your enemies’ room without your enemy. It was even weirder that he was sitting in the others bed, but that wasn't much of a concern just yet. He knew it was bad, but he wanted to know what Deku was hiding in those locked boxes. The room wasn't clean, so clearly the idiot had been certain to hide and lock away something he didn't want anyone to see. The thought he might see Deku's deepest insecurity thrilled him in a sick way. He'd know the one thing that creepy bastard hid from the world. The mere idea was thrilling. Katsuki took the box in one quick swipe from the table, pure elegance making it so he didn't knock any figures in the process. He bit his tongue, heart speeding up as he smiled and shook the box like a child would on Christmas trying to guess their gift. He heard a book knock around, as well as what sounded like a few pictures. Katsuki smirked, gazing at the lock on the cheap black box. If the nerd wanted to hide something he shouldn't put a melt - able lock on. He carefully made a small explosion with his pinky finger, listening for any sound of Deku approaching as he slowly melt the offending metal away. The blonde felt giddy as the silver slid down the box in thin lines, dragging down and barely missing his fingers as he did so. Katsuki felt a smirk crawl their way onto his lips, quickly snapping of the last few pieces of metal as he opened the box. His heart stuttered, smile washing away in seconds. The first where Polaroid pictures of him. Except he was asleep. And in his dorm. The pictures made his blood run cold as they were clearly taken from his bedroom closet. He swallowed hard, shaky hands moving the picture to read the writing on it written in messy words. 'My Sweet Love Is Resting. He Didn't Even Notice When I Kissed Him.' Katsuki swallowed hard. Placing the picture onto the bed he reached for the other. It was taken from his window this time, and by the looks of it, it was just before he'd go to bed, right when he'd be studying. 'He's So Smart, Though He Some How Hasn't Noticed Me For The Past Few Years.' He flicked to another, breath picking up in fear. This one now taken up close to his sleeping face, a hand wiping stroking his cheek whilst also smudging /something/ he didn’t feel okay on his cheek. 'Kacchan Was Having A Wet Dream. He Was Just So Cute Wriggling Around And Wining I Couldn't Wait Until I Got To My Room.' The blonde ignored the other pictures, already far too scared to look at them, swapping his attention to the book what had his name on it. Katsuki Bakugou: Book #37. He clenched his jaw, drawing his shoulders in as he flicked through the pages. In - depth assumptions and notes on his quirk and body where written out on pages and pages, as well as a few images supporting his theory as evidence. As he got closer to the back, the creepier everything slowly progressed. The pictures before more questionable, having an entire chapter solely dedicated to each of his body parts. Two for his chest, four for his waist and ass. It was terrifying. He felt unsafe. Watched. He felt the need to get out thrum through him, making his blood pulse rapidly as he slowly started to panic. He shot his head to the door, more than ready to make his getaway. But there was a figure there. Deku was standing there, strawberry lemonade in his hand as well as his normal, puppy dog smile. Though his eyes... they looked different. Not filled with faked purity and sweetness, but now coated in a clear glaze of pure lust and... and pride. "You found it, Kacchan. I hoped you would."
      Chapter 8: SHORT PSA
    Chapter Text
    Hello! Recently a few people have told me other authors are stealing my work word - for - word; or just altering the names around. Please let me know and link me to the sources if you see any! I've only cross-posted my works on Wattpad under the user 'LilSaplingTree'. Additionally, thank you all so much for all the kudos! It means so much to me! Recently I've hit a bit of a slump and have struggled to write for a few months, but I've been working on a recent Kacchako with pegging, so hopefully that will be out in a 7 - 1O days; though if I finish writing and editing before that I'll upload sooner. Once again, if you see any authors stealing or copying my drabbles/one-shots please let me know and add in a link! Love you all so much!                - Author-Kun
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (53)
  Comments
          Chanturon, MonsterMish, QualifiedTired, TiiniiTinysaurus, ChickeNugget, Pumpkat, verymememuchimpresswow, NeverEnoughStarscreamLove, taesgalaxy, Tanibaku, lord_explosion_murder, Dodobobo, Tiredfetus, ultraviolentdemon, Caprisunuwu, Cupkek, sugawaras_whore, zombielynxx, pepsi_pizza, Sleepy_ram, nlazy, AnonymousBTSARMY, JohannaPflug, AnnaLeBerri, Nubecita02, Yaoilover0, QueenCookie, Blobfish_Sama, hycanthis, wheelthrown, Suicidal_rainbow, nc_kent, ZeraphEnd, TammyTam, Cancerous_Chrollo, Megan_Leigh_4601, iamacookie, DarknessInMyMind, ozziemelons, lady_kyo, samantea59, AthenaTT, gayaspen, lcloudburstl, bachira, Lady_Phoenix04, Levi_babu, Skyleaf12, overcastjpg, PeachesForJudar, 
               and 263 more users
            heuphoria, sakurri, crystalmelonballz, scrub_fics, Tell_me_about_it_shug, RoseBud1218, heixhou, WeepWeepWeep, Anonymous12345, CalixIsAPrince, Junoalbatou, Lancito, mayvkuri, 666OsatanO666, TadahHead03, bisexualcup, BorkBeastBurrito, Shadow_qween, VirgilSandersTrash, Jay_Dani, ShoutoTodoroki, Cat_Charles, BuBbLe_tEA_bISh, Secretwriter905, Miss_Maim, SammyCoreo, coffeewing, narusasuismyreligion, SinnerOtaku18, A_gay_coat_hanger, Swag_like_Suga, jennyjenka, shuuzuo, Erierio_o, Walkawayfrommoney, lemonteaflower, Rose_Dymke, Meenje, syclad, KyuUltime13, Fake_roses, Ave_Cesaria, jenoen, Star48955, Keeper_of_Unicornia, SoftBakugouOwo, Cheeryfiz, UselessTypo, JJ_Style01, RottenSoul, Chesiredono, telltaleTongue, Sopeloven, mars_bars13, HarukoWitch, AwhMoons, Mintthewitch666, iamgrayt17, articulatedAnimus, Lilmizsunshine, buzzy_beautiful_sunny_nuggey, nickslovesbakugou, theyarealltaken, GabrielsLeftWing, Luwis06, Tower_of_Light, Black_panther, naggieee, mamigg3, glitterfangirl, Mxrigxld, piemaker93, redvelvetkings, ParasiticDeer, GoGoYoloya, Corotica2003, fabpotato1129, jinmju, kat_yaoilover4, beefnoodles, Infinijun, Cindi_Rose, EssayKiller, MarineraMarin, LokiCHarzy, LittlestCritter, DoggoLover6969, Mac16, I_Cri_4_The_Secretly_Sad_Ones, MangosAreHot, jesus_cartel, AnisaNiaLek, True_Army, blueberrytobio, shirokokoro, Una_Anonima_03, Lullubey, love_dove, Ethulwulfable24, makiwho, UnplugMyLifeSupport, Kittykat07, JadeIcing, ClarityZero29, princessensani, Cielodivongola, Pandaattack, pepperohoe, titisusu, NyxTheWitch, Isabella_Heartrose20, Zinnia_Sapphire, KyleKal19, Ruebell_Uprising, Tired_Lemon, TiredAM, AlexiaDyslexia, SirQueenAlice, kenmapplepi, remusisaliteralmood, blusiide, Hanniah10317, AdventurerMarcy, Ely_gt03, Genovus, tobiosmilk, Noelle125, Coffee_Dad, Pandakii, Katsu707, Sizzily, ughsheshere, Devil_Mika, Emeraldstar1234, Caro03, Clat, Emy2110, This_or_That, Updated1yearsAgo, nepanda, ExpectedOutcomes, Marauders_and_drarry, Dilfjotaro, ilovepregamekokichi, Calma_Maya, blzdaze, byunten, BisexualMozzreala, Goddex_Jax_90, Aliyae41, melaninmilkshake, NIMbunny, Novas_wonder, BOBAOZI, fruiteacakechan, Hades_Peverell_925, xxeclips_kawaii_animexx, Nekato, AcceptablyTrash, fuckouttahere, LunIpse, Angle_blue, Tokyojackal, xao33, QueenCarnage, fourtharm, sleep_isnt_a_necessity, blusidee, katta, The_Bookworm, Dierdre_bkg, aomine_taiga_0510, Mooniris26, Not_happy_camper, Dead_but_only_ironically, DaddyoftheRFA, pxtr, KnightOfSwords, RxseDust, Kamaru_Izuyama, cass1224, vasiadiadein, Ginjijun, Nekosan66, Eclair_Dan, freeforuse, Sardica_08, Barely_contained_panic, Charlotte_AdAstra, j_144, Whitetiger01, LadyYavanna, whammysaurus, mira_belle_wales, annabelle98, itsmyusualday, Mochikukencio, InsertANiceNameHere, AzulinaStars, Idkeiadh_BakuBB4, awkward_weirdo, Awkward_Overlord, Bottombakustan, Lem0nade_Child, TheCeilingFerret, Ghost_Fox, nicolestarlightwrites, ArmedPenguins, Waldgott, finger_stripes_and_orange_lights, KawaiiBitch, TrebleMakerXP, kritnwhothat, Bommiah, Blasty_Mcsplode, obsidian34, Gayvenger, WinterLeaves42, Dekubaby123, jessi_the_unicorn, Chlo_EEEE21, VeeVoo, MadHatterIsAnAssbutt, BlueOctopus, MilkteaT, shotobutblack_yellow, McDad, trickmixs, StarryReader, lilithABipotato, Likaboss2334, Asthma_Attack23, Addalittlegay, LuminousHavoc, Baragaki13, Loonylauren321, Otaku4Reals, Mercela123, miserable, AquNoob, EmiMothvine, Freedom_Wookie, Rossomeopossum, squishjinscheeks, Oreo_Chan, Draymalfoy, EmeraldBritishBunny, Olive_bnha, SaltyLlama380, Itz_dreidel, LoveSteven, Seungcheols_bf, aloera, AvengersAssemble, Namuhentai, Trashy_Writes, Jaz_zyy, madwriter223, Majora_sama, AllFandomLive, Mizu_Raisu, cherryexplosion and Luna_kogami
             as well as 
          423 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
