      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Teen And Up Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Categories:
               F/MM/MMulti
              Fandom:
               Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling
              Relationships:
               Draco Malfoy/Harry PotterHarry Potter/Ginny WeasleyHermione Granger/Ron WeasleyRemus Lupin/Sirius Black/Severus Snape
              Characters:
               Lily PotterJames PotterSirius BlackRemus Lupin
              Additional Tags:
               dimension travellingAUAlternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody DiesMpregProtective Harry PotterSoft Draco Malfoy
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-08-29Updated:2020-08-29Words:730Chapters:1/2Comments:2Kudos:21Bookmarks:2Hits:580
      A Different World
      Aliza_Ubaid
          Summary:
              The Golden Trio + Ginny travel to another Universe due to an Accident.
  Notes:
      I am a strict Drarry and Romione shipper. Do not take the Hinny ship seriously.Also, the main timeline which we will focus on will be the Non-Canon timeline.
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
      Chapter 1
        Notes:
          One more thing, Draco is supposed to be 11 months younger than Harry. Being born 1981 and not ‘80 in the main timeline. So, when it’s written ‘we were (age) years old’ basically the age would be Harry’s and Draco’s would be a year younger.
    Chapter Text
  1:56 pm in the Canon(Alternate) Timeline. 
Harry was supposed to move in to Grimmauld Place now that his wife was having their first child. They needed somewhere with a lot of space. He didn’t want to live here because it had a lot of his godfathers memories, but it was his only choice.Harry was wary of moving in here. The place had lots of cursed objects, if they were going to live here with a child. They needed to clean it up.  ”Blimey! This is scary, Harry. Why are we doing this again? And why do we have Malfoy with us?” Ron whispered.
”Because,” Harry responded, “Me and Ginny need to get rid of the magical Artifacts before we move in, and Malfoy knows all about this place. It’s his ancestral home from his mother’s side. I don’t like this either, but ‘Mione and Gin’ insisted we have someone with us who knows about this place.””You realise I can hear you, you know.” Draco said Flatly. ”Oh! What is this Malfoy? It seems like a mirror.” Ron mused.”I...I don’t know. What do you see in it, Weasel?”“It’s... I think that’s the Outside of Grimmauld Place.” Ron answered.While the guys were trying to see what it was, and they were standing pretty close to it. Hermione and Ginny entered.“Hey guys-” “AHHH!!!”When Hermione and Ginny realised the guys fell through they jumped in too. Why? Because they saw the outside of Grimmauld Place and thought it led outside.Oh, how they were wrong. 
***  “Hey, Da- Oh my god! Who are those people?!” Harry shouted as he entered his father and godfather’s shared home, all the while trying to protect his husband.”These people, Harry, claim to be you. I mean they certainly look like you, but they act so different. This Harry is with a pregnant Ginevra. Of course Ron and Hermione are still together, but apparently they hate your husband.” James explained.”Draco, Dear! How are you- oh. James, who the hell are these people?” Lily took Draco’s hand and made him sit.”I used Veritaserum on them, and they say they are our son, son in law, and our son’s best friends. Except Ginny and Harry are together and they hate Malfoys. The also kinda sorta look like they have never seen me before.” James said wearily.”I am back.” Sirius announced in a sing song manner. “And I brought my husbands with me. And- Oh my god! Who are those people James? And why are they in my house?” Sirius became frantic and tried to hide behind Snape.”As much I love you, you mutt. I don’t appreciate you using me as a human shield.” Snape drawled.“OH FOR THE LOVE OF-” Everyone looked at James concerned, and then Draco took Pity on his Father in Law and said, “These people are apparently me,Harry,Ron,Ginny and ‘Mione from a different universe. And Uncle James here is just exasperated because he has already had to explain this to us and Aunt Lily.”“Okay, where the buggering hell are we and why are the Marauders and Severus Snape here? And why the hell is Malfoy calling them ‘Uncle and Aunt’? And how are me and Malfoy, and Sirius and Snape getting along? And what did he mean by, ‘husbands’?””Like Draco said, we are probably in another dimension, the mirror we fell through probably connected two Universes with each other.” Hermione stated in a matter-of-factly way. “Now can you all please tell me what is different in this Universe?””Well, Hermione, I know that here, Voldemort Died in fourth year, me,Ron and Harry have been friends since we were babies, Harry asked me to marry him when we were five with a chocolate bar, we have been a couple since (well except for that one month in fifth year when we broke up and Harry and Ginny dated for a while.)””Oh, I remember that. You were so Jealous, and I was only with her because I wanted to make you jealous.“”Shut it, Harry. And my Parents and Harry’s parents are really close. And uncle Sev, Uncle Siri and Uncle Rem have been together since we were 4.Oh, and I’m pregnant.”“Oh my god!....”     
What will happen now that they know what happened in my timeline? 
  Notes:
  1. The Golden Quartet is Harry,Draco,Ron and Hermione.2. The boys of the Quartet were already Best friends, but when Hermione came they didn’t hesitate to take her in.3. James and Lily Potter were in another room when Voldemort came and shot the killing curse. So, when Harry survived they quickly changed their location.4. Peter Pettigrew was thrown in Azkaban after Halloween ‘81.5. The Malfoys and Weasleys were part of the Original order and the new one.6. The Potters and Weasleys got along quickly, but it took them a while to get used to the Malfoys. By the time the Quartet was 3, they were good friends.7. Harry and Draco are Childhood Sweethearts.8. Voldemort came back but was dead by the Quartet’s Fourth Year thanks to Snaps being a spy.
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (2)
  Comments
          LGLBAM, Violet_skys, AlexHosler, Firestorm0316, Malfoy25, Living_on_a_cloud, Hereforthefanfic552, TweetArya, MeyAngelCW21, ThisGirlNeedsABreakFromTheWorld, Rosh1425, 2ILoveFanFiction3, Stephianz, Anime_Shu, and eliza_snow
             as well as 
          6 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
