      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               僕のヒーローアカデミア | Boku no Hero Academia | My Hero Academia
              Relationships:
               Bakugou Katsuki/DabiBakugou Katsuki/Midoriya IzukuBakugou Katsuki/Shindou YouBakugou Katsuki/Shigaraki Tomura | Shimura TenkoBakugou Katsuki/Monoma NeitoBakugou Katsuki/Todoroki ShoutoAmajiki Tamaki/Bakugou KatsukiBakugou Katsuki/Takami Keigo | HawksBakugou Katsuki/Everyone
              Characters:
               Bakugou KatsukiDabi (My Hero Academia)Midoriya IzukuShindou YouShigaraki Tomura | Shimura TenkoMonoma NeitoTodoroki ShoutoAmajiki TamakiTakami Keigo | Hawks
              Additional Tags:
               AftercareSweetCute Bakugou KatsukiCuddling &amp; SnugglingSleepy CuddlesSleepy KissesBoys KissingRomantic FluffBottom Bakugou KatsukiPower Bottom Bakugou KatsukiBakugou Katsuki is a Little ShitNot Beta ReadKinktober 2020Bakugou Katsuki Swears A LotComing In PantsThighsTop Midoriya IzukuOlder Midoriya IzukuTaller Midoriya Izukuthigh ridingDry HumpingOrgasm Delay/DenialTop Dabi (My Hero Academia)Top Shindou YouChokingBreathplayAsphyxiationDirty TalkPro Hero Bakugou KatsukiVillain Shigaraki Tomura | Shimura TenkoBlow JobsFace-FuckingBoot WorshipSpit KinkPraise KinkAnal SexWax PlayTemperature PlayHusbandsHand JobsTentaclesTentacle SexSenpai-Kouhai RelationshipDeepthroatingBakugou Katsuki-centric
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-01Completed:2020-10-09Words:9992Chapters:10/10Comments:15Kudos:144Bookmarks:12Hits:3504
      Tired_Lemon's Kinktober 2020!
      Tired_Lemon
          Summary:
              Heyo! October is finally here and I'm here to participate in the Kinktober writing challenge. These will all be Bakugou ships because I legit can't ship any other characters. I hope you guys enjoy this wonderfully smutty work. Also, a quick note, I might forget some tags, so I'll be gradually adding them as I progress into more ships and kinks into this work.(Discontinued, but you can still read this as a one-shot book with a few Katsuki ships)
  Notes:
      Welcome to my Kinktober work! This is the first chapter, which will only be an introduction to the ships and such. In a bit I'll post the true start of this lovely challenge. Oh, and before I begin, ALL CHARACTERS ARE AGED UP!
      Chapter 1: Introduction.
    Chapter Text
    Ships and Kinks: 
  Day 1.) Aftercare: Dabi X Bakugou 
  Day 2.) Thigh Riding: Midoriya X Bakugou 
  Day 3.) Orgasm denial: Shindou X Bakugou 
  Day 4.) Breathplay: Shigaraki X Bakugou 
  Day 5.) Boot worship: Monoma X Bakugou 
  Day 6.) Waxplay: Todoroki X Bakugou
  Day 7.) Tentacles: Amajiki X Bakugou 
  Day 8.) Dirty Talk: Hawks X Bakugou
  Day 9.) Petplay: Shinsou X Bakugou 
  Day 10.) Mommy/Daddy kink: Hawks X Bakugou 
  Day 11.) Stockings: Aizawa X Bakugou 
  Day 12.) Shotgunning: Sero X Bakugou 
  Day 13.) Demon: Dabi X Bakugou 
  Day 14.) In public: Shigaraki X Bakugou 
  Day 15.) Cockwarming: Kaminari X Bakugou 
  Day 16.) Hate sex: Monoma X Bakugou 
  Day 17.) Titfucking: Midoriya X Bakugou 
  Day 18.) Bloodplay: Male!Toga X Bakugou 
  Day 19.) Mirror sex: Hawks X Bakugou 
  Day 20.) Overstimulation: Sero X Bakugou 
  Day 21.) Impact play: Todoroki X Bakugou 
  Day 22.) Formal wear: Aizawa X Bakugou 
  Day 23.) Double penetration in one hole: Amajiki X Bakugou X Mirio
  Day 24.) Branding: Dabi X Bakugou 
  Day 25.) Gunplay: Villain!Midoriya X Bakugou 
  Day 26.) Face riding: Shindou X Bakugou 
  Day 27.) On the phone: Midoriya X Bakugou 
  Day 28.) Crossdressing: Kaminari x Bakugou 
  Day 29.) Praise kink: Shinsou X Bakugou
  Day 30.) Hickeys: Sero X Bakugou
  Day 31.) Vamparism: Todoroki X Bakugou
      Chapter 2: Day 1, Aftercare: Dabi X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Okay fellas, so we're gonna start off soft here with some cute aftercare! This is my first time writing Dabi, so please bare with me if he's a little too ooc &gt;_&lt; Anyways, let's hope I can commit to this series and complete it! Criticism is always welcome, I'm always looking for more ways to improve my writing, so don't be afraid to comment, dear readers. &lt;3
        Notes:
          This was fairly short but I think its a proper amount for some aftercare. Never really wrote much aftercare before but I hope that this is acceptable!
    Chapter Text
    Loud and heavy panting was filled throughout the dimly lit room. The room was small and all darks, with only the moonlight filtering through the window. The cool rays of light illuminated perfectly over the two sweaty bodies on the bed. “Haahhh...fuck,” The ravenette caught his breath as he swiped the hair sticking to his forehead back.“You know, Staples,” Katsuki takes a large gulp of air, “I think you might have actually fuckin’ broke me this time.”At that, Dabi let out a breathy laugh. He slowly pulls himself out from the blonde, lifting his body up and over to the left side of the bed.“Good to know I did a number on ya, blondie.” He said in a teasing tone and winked at the other.“Pftt, fuckin’ asshole. I can’t move for shit, so you better get ready to take care of me,” Katsuki said and stuck his tongue out at the other. “Yeah, yeah, I know babes. How’re the burns? Did I do too much with the flames?,” The older asks with a bit of worry for the other. They both agreed beforehand that Dabi could use his quirk on Katsuki during sex. The older was hesitant to use it at first for the fear that he would hurt his little lover. His quirk is hard to control, especially when he has mercilessly killed many people with his flames. He didn’t want to lose himself and accidentally overdo things to the one person he truly cared for.“Don’t worry ‘bout it, Staples,” Katsuki turned towards the other and moved closer to the other, “It ain’t nothing I can’t handle!” The blonde finished with a grin.“Don’t doubt you there for a sec, sweetheart,” The raven said with a soft smile on his face.The two gazed into each others eyes, electric blue meeting a deep scarlet. All a sudden, the raven brings his hand up to the blonde’s hair and ruffles it, making his sex hair even more messier.The blonde let out a growl, “You fucker! Grr, I’ll make you regret that...when I can finally walk that is.”Dabi chuckled at the last thing the blonde said.“Ugh, okay I better get up and clean this shit off us. I’ll be right back babes.” Dabi said, wanting to stay in bed but knowing he must take care of the blonde he gets up anyways.Katsuki’s eyes followed the older’s form as he watched the other get up off of their bed. He let out a snicker and wolf whistled as his eyes trailed up Dabi’ body, scanning his tall and strong build. The raven rolled his eyes and proceeded to walk out of the room, heading his way to the bathroom.When the other left the room, Katsuki decided to inspect the damage that was inflicted upon his own body. There were dark hickeys trailing all over his neck, silently cursing himself for letting Dabi practically maul him. His eyes trailed lower, seeing bite marks all over his chest. At his hips, there were dark bruises and burn marks from the older quite literally burning his grip into the blonde as they fucked.There were several burn marks all over his thighs and back. The other even burned his name into Katsuki’s right inner thigh.He blushed as he saw that he was genuinely marked everywhere. He felt owned, and although he’d never say this outloud, he felt pride in knowing that his lover left his mark all over him.Katsuki was brought out of his thoughts as he saw Dabi walk through the door, holding a cool rag and a tube of burn cream. He stopped in the doorway for a few moments and gave the blonde a once over, smirking at his handiwork. “Alright babe, lemme take care of you. I’ll make you feel better,” Dabi said with a soft smile.He walked towards the bed and hopped on top of it, setting the items in his hands off to the side as he sat the blonde up right. He gave Katsuki a long kiss which was nothing but a loving press of the lips. “Mm ‘love you,” The blonde mumbled against his lips and gave one last peck before pulling away.Dabi gently caressed the side of the others face and grabbed the items that he set aside. First he used the cloth to wipe their fluids off the both of their sweaty bodies, being extra careful around the burns on the younger's body. Bakugou let out a quiet hiss as the towel traveled over a particularly sensitive burn. Dabi shoots the other a look of concern, but the blonde just glares back at the raven. The other sighed and continued to clean the both of them.Dabi threw the towel onto the floor when he finally finished and popped the cap open of the burn cream. “This might sting a little bit baby, but hang in there,” The older said in warning, only to receive a scoff from the blonde.“Just get it over with, asshole,” Katsuki replies, only to regret his words as he let out a wince as the cream was being soothed over a burn on his hip.Dabi gave little kisses over each burn mark before he applies the cream, making sure Katsuki is as comfortable as it can get. Each time he swipes over a mark with the cream, the blonde lets out small noises of pain, which are quickly dismissed as Dabi would kiss the blonde’s pain away. “Okay, one more baby. You still here with me?” The ravenette asked in a sweet tone. Katsuki gave a quiet nod as he let the other finally finish.Dabi dabbed some of the cream against his fingers as he smoothed it against Katsuki’s inner thigh, against his name in which he burned into the blondes skin. He gave light kisses against it and looked up into the others eyes with a caring look. With one last peck to the other's tender skin, he gets up from between Katsuki’s thighs. He settles on his side behind the other, spooning the smaller male. Pulling the blonde close, he gave a sigh of content as they are now both finally able to rest.“You did so good for me blondie,” Dabi cooed at the other and settled his face into the nape of the others neck.The blonde gives a hum in return, close to falling asleep in the others warm embrace. “You’re so beautiful baby. So perfect, just for me. My prince.” The older male proceeds to say muffled praises as they both gradually drifted off into a deep sleep.
      Chapter 3: Day 2, Thigh Riding: Midoriya X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Sorry if the writing is inconsistent or seems uninspired. I've been busy all day and am just burnt out for stuff, but I don't want to give up just yet.Anwyays, hope you enjoy this relatively short chap.
    Chapter Text
    The greenette sat on the edge of the bed as he used a towel to dry his wet locks. He shook his head in an attempt to disperse the rest of the droplets that sat atop his hair. At the same time, a blonde male walked through the door, getting splashed with the leftover water. The blonde snarled as he turned his attention towards the other.“The fuck you doing Deku?” He growled as he snatched the towel from Izuku’s hand. He wiped the water that got on him with a frustrated sigh and threw the towel back at the older male.Katsuki threw a glare at Izuku as he looked at the other up and down. Izuku shifted slightly as he saw the others' scarlet eyes gaze over his body. The green haired male had only just got out of the shower, hence why his hair was wet, and he was wearing nothing but a pair of grey sweatpants. His chiseled upper body was exposed, covered in a light sheen from his shower.“Mm, just drying off Kacchan.” Izuku said and held out his arms towards the blonde, motioning for him to stand between his legs from where he sat on the bed.Katsuki rolled his eyes and walked in between the others' legs, being pulled into an embrace immediately. Strong arms wrapped around his waist, feeling Izuku’s head drop to lay against his stomach. Katsuki let out a sigh at the others' clinginess and let a hesitant hand ruffle the others damp hair.“Tch, stupid nerd…” He mumbled softly, no real heat behind his words. If anything, they were more endearing.Izuku breathed out a heavy sigh in content against the others stomach, smelling Katsuki’s caramel-like scent through his favorite black tank-top.All of a sudden, the blonde is swept off his feet and forced to basically straddle the taller male. He let out a gasp as his face flushed. His hands quickly scrambled for balance as they held onto Izuku’s broad shoulders. The latter now had his face buried deep into Katsuki’s pecs, sniffing like a creep.“Oi, Deku! W-What the hell do you think you’re doin?” Katsuki asked, voice wavering slightly with the compromising position.“Just hugging my Kacchan.” The other replied in a muffled voice, sending shivers throughout the Blonde’s body.Slowly the hands wrapping around his waist traveled lower, pushing Katsuki’s lower back impossibly closer into the greenette’s tight embrace. It was then that Katsuki had realized what the nerd was doing. He felt ‘it’ against his inner thigh, impossibly close to his own. “Y-You perverted Deku! I’ll blow your ass the hell up!” An empty threat was spilled from Katsuki’s quivering lips.Izuku then unburied his head from between the blondes' chest, looking up at him. The clouded look in the nerd's eye made Katsuki feel vulnerable, almost as if he was pinned down by the others' gaze alone. Too caught up in his own thoughts to realize, Katsuki had felt the soft warm press of lips against his own. The peck felt like electricity from their lips connecting alone.Bringing one hand up to the back of Katsuki’s neck, he tilted the others head up into his lips, deepening the kiss. Their mouths molded together as they found a familiar rhythm. Izuku hummed into the kiss as he requested entrance into the blondes mouth. Thankfully Katsuki was feeling obedient tonight, so he granted access. Their tongues danced with and against each other, sucking and stroking.The other hand that was against Katsuki’s lower back had dropped down to his ass, starting to slowly knead the flesh beneath his palm. Katsuki let out a gasp at this action, opening his mouth even more for the other. All sounds were being greedily swallowed down by Izuku’s hungry lips, craving more and more of the blonde’s sweet taste. “You’re lucky I’m perverted Kacchan. If I weren’t, I wouldn’t be able to make you feel this good by doing basically nothing.” He said with a smirk to his tone, causing Katsuki to flush once more.“Whatever, just get it over with,” The Blonde said and crossed his arms, looking anywhere but the others' burning gaze.And with that, the greenette nosed up and down Katsuki’s sharp jawline, leaving a trail of open mouth kisses wherever he could. He continued this all the way down the Blonde’s neck, nipping here and there. He targeted specifically at a pulse point in Katsuki’s neck, knowing that it was the other’s weakness.“Mm-hahhh….” Izuku smirked against the other's skin from hearing that beautiful sound. It was truly music to his ears to hear his pretty little Kacchan feeling good, especially from him. He kept biting down against that spot, sucking one bright hickey against the smooth skin. Katsuki squirmed in the other’s lap as he felt his neck being assaulted by the other’s mouth. The fucker knew he had a sensitive neck and used it against him. He can’t wait to wipe the smirk off his face...later though, because right now he needed this.“Stupid-ahh... Nerd. Touch me.” Katsuki demanded desperately.“Alrighty Kacchan, let me help you.” Izuku whispered against Katsuki’s skin, his hot breath tickling the other's neck. Both of the tallers' hands traveled down to settle on Katsuki’s hips. Lifting the other slightly over one of his legs, he successfully got the other in position atop his thigh. A confused expression crossed Katsuki’s face until his mouth formed an ‘o’ and let out a whine. “You like that Kacchan? Like me rubbing my thigh up against your sex?” Izuku asked with a smug expression as he continued to grind his thigh upwards. “S-Shut up idiot! ...Just keep doing that” He finished with an embarrassed face.The older tightened his grip on Katsuki’s hips, helping him grind his hips downward, giving him the friction that he so desperately needed. Katsuki’s face fell forward against Izuku’s chest, panting and letting moans spill out from his mouth.“Who’s the pervert now, my pretty Kacchan?” Katsuki gritted his teeth as the bastard dared to say such cocky things. He knew he couldn’t find it in himself to say anything, the pleasure easily over-powering any other emotion. He was just so desperate and needy to get off. Slowly, Izuku releases his bruising grip from the others hips, letting Katsuki guide himself to his own pleasure.The greenette sat back on his forearms against the bed and stared up at the blonde who had begun moving on his own. He let out a teasing snicker and tilted his head slightly, admiring the lovely view of his lover. “Hahh.. Fuck ‘Zuku- I’m close” The blonde shamelessly moaned out, speeding up the pace of his hips.Slowly he felt the heat coiling in his stomach finally start to unravel. The blonde threw his head back and arched his back as he came with a loud moan. His hips stuttered as his rhythm became undone, riding out his orgasm.Izuku sat back up and held the other close to him once more, laying his head against the blonde’s shoulder.“You did good Kacchan, such a good boy.” He whispered into the blonde’s ear, giving it light kisses.“You,” Katsuki drew in a breath of air in attempt to catch his breath, “You fucker! I can’t believe I just came in my pants after humping your leg like a virgin.”  The angry blonde facepalmed as Izuku paid no mind to his complaints in favor of settling the both of them back against the bed. Getting comfortable, he kept the other in his arms, holding him impossibly closer as they both slowly fell asleep.
      Chapter 4: Day 3, Orgasm Denial: Shindou X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Hiya! Sorry for uploading this a day late- I was busy last night but finished things up today. Sorry if it came to a sudden stop, but I hope you all enjoy ♡︎
        Notes:
          Also- Shindou’s nickname for Bakugou in this chapter is inspired by the Yagami Yato Shindou audio.
    Chapter Text
    Dirty words were being whispered into Katsuki’s ears as he shuddered. He could barely make out any of the words being uttered, his head too fuzzy to pay attention. His back was being pressed roughly against a wall, unable to move. A hand sat next to his head, caging him in to ensure the blonde couldn’t escape. “Not so fast, Cherry~” The voice whispered, breath so close that it brought a deep flush to Katsuki’s face.The rave-haired male hiked a knee between Katsuki’s legs, forcing them apart.“Y-You bastard! You know damn well we can’t do this in public!” Katsuki’s voice chided, wavering slightly as he started to lose his composure.The other male’s head dropped onto the blonde’s exposed shoulder, lightly tracing the skin with his lips. He moved up towards Katsuki’s neck, each touch of his lip sending delectable shivers throughout the blonde’s body. Finally stopping his travels at the shell of the other’s ear, he blew on it lightly and gave it a tantalizing lick. Katsuki could feel his knees buckle, already feeling like he’ about to explode from just some simple teasing. Well, it’s not like he could help the fact that he’s sensitive either.“Mm c’mon, I know we’re both still wound up from fighting that villain, wouldn’t you agree?” Shindou said, trying to convince the blonde.Before Katsuki even knew what to say, he found his head nodding. This brought a sly smirk to the olders face. The blonde internally cursed at himself for being so compliant.“That’s a good little Cherry. Such a cute little thing you are when you finally give into me, although today you are surprisingly easy~” Shindou teased, voice dripping with sickeningly sweet mockery.Katsuki scowled at the other’s words, pretending like Shindou wasn’t right with his taunts. A hand found its way into the blonde’s hair, tugging his head back harshly to bare his neck towards the other. In an instant, Shindou’s hot mouth found it’s way back onto Katsuki’s neck, sucking a fresh hickey. This time, Katsuki just let it happen.“Hmmn~ Your neck taste’s pretty good, baby. I know a place that’ll taste even better” Shindou smirked against the others delicate skin, leaving unholy words and promises in their wake.Katsuki let out a pitched whine at the other’s words. God, he can only imagine what sinful things the ravenette could do with his mouth. The blonde was snapped out of his thoughts as he was flipped around, now his face and chest being pushed against the wall. He felt a warm body press against his back, making sure every part of their bodies were touching.“O-Oi Batard! Watch what you’re- hey!” Katsuki stopped mid-yell as his pants and boxers were being pulled down.The sudden rush of cool air against his nether regions had him letting out a surprised yelp. He turned to glare behind him at the culprit, only to be met with the smug expression that the raven loved to wear. The other was slowly getting on his knees behind Katsuki, face at eye-level with his ass. The blonde’s eyes widened as he realized what the fucker was up to.“Mmnn?~ Think you already have me figured out, Cherry?” Shindou said, grabbing the two mounds of flesh that were presented before him.Before Katsuki could give a snarky retort, his words quickly died in his throat as a moan was ripped from his mouth. Shindou had spread the perfect cheeks apart and gave one tantalizing lick at the puckered hole, leaving the blonde’s knees weak. Katsuki’s moans and whimpers had only egged the other on more. The raven had gave another small lick, but this time he had turned on the vibrations with his tongue.“Ah-hahhh….Fuck” The blonde swore as he felt the wet heat delve into his entrance again.Katsuki’s flushed face had fallen forward against the wall as he tried to keep himself under control, but he could barely even keep his own moans in. Finally, Shindou stopped the shallow teasing licks and started worming his way inside the blonde’s hole. The wetness and vibrations were all too perfect, just the right amount to have Katsuki undone so fast.Shindou resumed his ‘meal’, licking the blonde everywhere he could. He was determined to get more of the others' pretty moans. He wanted Katsuki to be begging for more. Shindou pulled back from the other’s hole, “Remember baby, no cumming without my say”Just as fast as he had pulled away, his mouth was back onto the blonde’s puckered hole. Shindou’s tongue alone was earning many moans from Katsuki’s mouth. The blonde was steadily getting louder as the other’s tongue had gotten impossibly deeper.“G-Gahh! Fuck- Shindou!” Katsuki moaned out all of a sudden as the other tongue brushed against his prostate.Smirking darkly, the raven had used this weakness to his advantage. He targeted Katsuki’s sweet spot over and over again, the blondes moans like music to his ears. The vibrations from his tongue sending electricity through Katsuki’s body. Katsuki feeling himself near his climax, he started pushing himself back against Shindou’s face. “M-More Shindou! Ahh~” Katsuki moaned shamelessly, “I’m c-close.”Shindou hummed against the other’s hole and brought a hand up to Katsuki’s front to jerk him off.  The blonde cried out in pleasure as both of his sweet spots were being touched. It was all too much now, he could feel the right coil in his belly now so, so close to the ground undone. “Ah ah ahh, my little Cherry. You can’t cum yet, I’ll let you when I say so.” The raven said, practically torturing Katsuki. Katsuki cried out as he felt the others hand wrap tightly around the base of his dick. He was so close, but Shindou was preventing his climax. The blonde swore that the other was evil, taking away his precious release like it was nothing. “F-uhhh-ck you, bitch! Gahh- I’ll blow you up, bastard!” Katsuki growled, although he only received a mocking chuckle from Shindou. The raven continued his ministrations with the blonde, keeping Katsuki just on edge, but not allowed to spill over like he oh so wanted. The blonde was now just a shaking and quivering mess of pleasure. A few tears escaped his eyes, rolling down his cheeks. Finally, the blonde caved in and decided to beg. “Fuck- Shindou please! Just let me fuckin’ cum already!” Katsuki cried out. Shinsou only turned up the vibrations on his tongue, making Katsuki’s toes curl. All of a sudden, the raven let go of his tight grip on the others cock. The blonde groaned as the pleasure became all too much, he could feel himself unravel finally as his vision started to white. “A-Ahhh~ Shindou fuckkk! C-Cumming!” The blonde came with a loud moan as his body shook, his orgasm hitting him waves. Katsuki slumped back, feeling Shindou’s front against him. The raven wrapped his arms around Katsuki’s skin waist to hold him up against himself. Shindou have little kisses along the side of the blondes throat as he held him, letting the other bask in his orgasmic daze. “Hey, Cherry? You here with me babe?” He murmured against the blonde's skin. “Mhmmm” The blonde lazily replied. “Ah, okay. Cmon Cherry, let’s bring you home and get you cleaned up.”
      Chapter 5: Day 4, Breath Play: Shigaraki X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Okayy, so for once I didn't post late xD I wrote this pretty quickly, but hopefully throughout the week I'll gain more motivation to get things done.
    Chapter Text
    “You like that, you stupid slut?” Shigaraki said through gritted teeth as he wrapped a hand tightly around Katsuki’s throat.The blonde let out small choking sounds, but managed to nod his head up and down. The two males were currently on a large bed, Shigaraki behind the blonde as he held the other face first into the sheets by his throat. Katsuki could barely breathe, but it’s exactly how he liked it. The beautiful pressure around his throat, restricting his airflow felt like heaven. The added danger of him being possibly dusted was also another sick thing he liked about it. Call him a sucker for the danger of it all, but Katsuki couldn’t help that he loved every delicious moment of it.“Such a good little slut, getting off to my hand alone around your neck. What are you? A sick pervert or something?” The older male shamed, grinding his crotch against Katsuki’s pert ass.Katsuki only let out a whine at the other’s words. He ground his ass back against Shigaraki’s clothed dick, eliciting a low groan from the other. Katsuki smirked, calling it a win for himself, but it was short-lived as the other male made his grip tighter. The blonde let out even more pathetic choking sounds as all air flow was cut off. The blue-haired male let out a dark chuckle at the other’s noises. Even though his face was shoved against the mattress, Katsuki’s eyes became red and puffy from the tears that escaped. He sniffled, earning himself another chuckle from the male above him. “Hmm, let’s stop the teasing and get to the real thing, my little hero~” Shigaraki emphasized the ‘hero’ with a harsh grind of his hips against Katsuki’s back.“G-Gahh!” The blonde gasped when the other finally let go of his neck, trying to gulp in as much air as he could, only resulting in him making coughing sounds.“Awh, such a pathetic little thing you are~” The other male degraded, causing Katsuki to whine at his words.With his hand now free from the other’s neck, he quickly pulled down the blonde’s pants and underwear, exposing his plump ass. No doubt made so perfect from his constant hero work and training. He raised his hand and brought it down harshly, letting a loud smack resounding throughout the room followed by a surprised yelp. Shigaraki’s face broke out into a grin as he repeated the motions, earning many erotic sounds from the younger male. With one final smack, the blonde let out a loud cry, his voice like music to the older male’s ears. Shigaraki was already too turned on to drag this on any longer, so he quickly unbuckled his pants and pushed it down to his thighs, exposing his cock. Katsuki’s teary eyed face turned back to look at the other, eyes widening at how Shigaraki was suddenly exposed.“What is it, little hero? Too scared you can’t handle villain cock?” The blue-haired male teased, rubbing himself in between Katsuki’s perfect globes.The blonde let out a moan at the feeling of the other’s member so close, brushing against his hole. He blushed and turned his head back around to hide his embarrassment in the sheets below him. Arching his back, he pushed back against Shigaraki, making the friction even more hot.“You’re lucky I prepped before I came here, you asshole! Or else we would have to spend forever stretching me out” The blonde spat, making sure the other knew how much trouble he went for.“Mm well, aren’t you such a kind little thing, huh?” The other said and teased the head of his dick in Katsuki’s hole, pushing ever so slightly inwards.“B-Bastard!” Katsuki yelled when he felt the sudden press inwards.In one swift motion, the villain pushed himself all the way into the hilt. “G-Gahh! Fu-uhh-ck! Gimme a w-warning next time, bitch!” Katsuki spat out, but his anger was quickly dispersed as Shigaraki ground his hips hard, pushing his cock impossibly deeper inside the blonde.“You little hero slut. Wonder what everyone would think if they found out you’re such a whore for a little bit of villain cock, huh? What would they say if they found  the number 2 pro-hero was a total fucking cock-loving slut that he would bend over and submit to anyone, huh?” Shigaraki whispered filthy words into his ear, all the while grinding his cock around inside the other.The blonde let out moans as the words were whispered into his ear. He truly loved how filthy the villain’s mouth was. He held on to every. single. word. His focus was entirely on the other as all he could feel and hear was Shigaraki.“Mmph-!” The blonde let out a muffled moan as the other male snapped his hips back all of a sudden before pushing them back in harshly.Katsuki felt a hand in his hair, tugging his lock roughly as he was being pulled back against the villains chest, now both of them on their knees. Shigaraki took this new position to his advantage as he bit and sucked dark hickeys into the blonde’s shoulder. The blue-haired male kept the same rhythm, slowly pulling his hips back and pushing his cock back into the blonde with a brutal force. With each thrust, Katsuki cried out in pleasure.“C-Choke me again!” The blonde demanded with a bright blush.“Your wish is my command, little hero~” Shigaraki responded and moved his hand that was in his hair to wrap around Katsuki’s throat.He forced Katsuki to arch his back further, holding the blonde’s throat to push his head back onto his shoulder. His grip wasn’t enough for the blonde though, but it’s presence was appreciated. The grip was firm but not as harsh as Katsuki liked.All of a sudden, the older male broke his rhythm and started thrusting faster, grip getting tighter. Shameless moans spilled from the blonde’s mouth as things started heating up even more. Choked out moans and skin slapping harshly against skin was the only sounds throughout the room. It was nothing but pure desire and lust.“Oho, little hero~ Can’t wait for me to fill you up with my cum? Don’t worry, you’ll be filled up nicely soon.” His voice gave nothing but dirty promises and if Katsuki said he didn’t like it, he’d be lying. The villains grip on his neck tightened as he fucked harder into the blonde’s smaller form, using it as leverage to pull him back onto his cock. His now tighter hold was enough to have Katsuki seeing white. His hands clawed at the hand on his neck, but made no move to remove them. He could barely breathe but it was all too much. He loved every second of it.“F-Fuck, Sh-Shiggy! M’gonna cum so hard! G-Ahh!~” Katsuki was cut off as he came with a loud moan, his vision blurry as he let the power of his orgasm course through his body.Shigaraki was still relentlessly pounding into the blonde, but he finally let go of the others neck as he let Katsuki drop back down onto the bed to bask in his orgasm. A few harsh thrusts later, the villain was spilling his seed inside of the blonde as well, grinding his hips inward to make sure none of his come would escape his pretty little hero.He pulled out as the smaller male let out a whine from the sudden loss of warmth inside of him. Shigaraki gave him a chuckle as he panted, falling to the side of the blonde.“I’m too tired to leave asshole, so yer gonna have to deal with me sleeping here, okay asshole?” Katsuki’ muffled voice said.The blue-haired villain found himself smiling softly, but quickly replaced his face with his usual scowl, “Yeah yeah, whatever. Goodnight, blonde.”“G’night, chapstick.”
      Chapter 6: Day 5, Boot Worship: Monoma X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Heyoo! Now I've never really read boot worship before, so this is a new thing for me. Please lmk if there are any errors or if I didn't write this kink correctly.
    Chapter Text
  The bright light gleamed around Monoma’s form as Katsuki stared up at him. He could only see the sadistic males bright teeth and eyes, Monoma’s dark expression sending shivers throughout Katsuki’s body. Monoma sat on a throne-like chair, lazily tilting his head to the side to rest against his palm, which was holding a leash that connected to a spiked collar around Katsuki’s neck. The crown he wore on his head tilted to the side as well as his piercing grey-blue eyes stared hard into Katsuki’s red ones. Monoma crossed one leg over the other, offering a dark smirk towards the other blonde who sat on the cold ground beneath him.
  “Not so high and mighty, are we Katsuki?” Monoma’s eyes narrowed into thin slits as his grin became as wide as a cheshire cat.
  Katsuki glared at Monoma as he only responded with silence, which only made the other even more smug.
  “Oh c’mon 
  pet
  . Can’t even talk to your King? What a pathetic little peasant you are.” Monoma leaned forward as he pulled Katsuki closer by the leash.
  Now staring directly into each others faces, Monoma smirked once more. He chuckled darkly, which had Katsuki’s eyes widening in what that mischievous laugh had in store for him. The older male slowly brought his hand into Katsuki’s soft spiky hair and tugged him up to sit on his knees. Katsuki let out a squeak of surprise as his hands scrambled to pull at Monoma’s hand, only for them to get slapped away.
“Now, pet. Do your duties and service your King.” Monomaslouched back against his throne, once again in the slouched position, uncrossing his legs and offering a boot towards Katsuki’s face.
  The younger blonde scrunched his nose at Monoma’s implications, but nonetheless responded with, “Yes, your highness…”
  This made Monoma feel powerful, having so much power over the younger blonde. It sent a rush straight to his cock. His watchful eyes bored holes into Katsuki’s head as the other slowly picked up his leg by the calf.
  Just then, an idea popped in Monoma’s head. Katsuki gave the other a curious look until he saw what the other did. Monoma had spat onto one of his boots. 
  “Why don’t you clean the filth off from my boot like the good little peasant you are.”
  Katsuki nodded his head submissively as he waited a moment before starting to give small kisses against the leather. He started with the toe of the shoe, going up the sides of it. While he did that, he spread the others spit around with his thumb. He kissed and licked wherever he could, relishing in each praise he was given.
  Monoma let out a sigh in content as he watched his submissive do as he was told. He let out small praises here and there such as “Good pet” and “Yes, keep doing that” which only caused Katsuki to work harder for his King. The younger blonde then started to lick and lap up Monoma’s spit enthusiastically. He did his best job, making sure not to waste any of his precious King’s spit. 
  “Hmm, okay that's enough, pet. You can go ahead and service me elsewhere.” Monoma said once he deemed Katsuki did a good job with his boots.
  By then, both the males were hard and straining against their clothed crotches. Finally, Katsuki was getting what he worked hard for. He dropped Monomas foot as his head was gently being pulled up to Monoma’s crotch.
  The younger blonde brought up two hands to unzip Monoma’s pants and pull out his hard cock. It slapped against his face as the other male simply chuckled and let out a breathy moan. Katsuki then began to make work with the cock presented before him, using both of his hands to jack off the base as he sucked on the tip. 
  “Yes, just like that. You’re doing so good for you King. Keep goin baby.” These words spilled out from the older blonde's mouth as Katsuki took the entire head of his cock into his mouth.
  The younger blonde only hummed around the head as he continued his actions. He slowly sank down further, taking half of Monoma’s cock. He used his tongue to slither against the underside of the older’s dick and began to hollow out his cheeks. Monoma let out more groans as his head fell forward in pleasure, his crown falling off onto the floor. 
  The older brought one hand into Katsuki’s hair again and held it in a tight grip. The force of his hand in his hair alone had tears pricking in the corners of Katsuki’s eyes, but he wouldn’t let that stop him just yet. That is until Monoma got more greedy and started pushing Katsuki’s head down farther on his cock, relishing in the wet heat finally taking his entire length. 
  “God...fuck your mouth is so erotic. I hope you know that, pet.” The older moaned out with a blissed out look. 
  Katsuki could barely breathe but he wouldn’t let that stop him either. If anything, it egged the younger to do more. He slowly started to bob his head up and down Monoma’s dick, making sure to use enough tongue to please his King. The older started to feel the heat in his lower stomach as he could feel himself getting close.
  “M’gonna fuck your pretty little mouth, ‘Tsuki.” Monoma warned before roughly forcing the other up and down his length.
  Lewd wet noises could be heard throughout the room as Katsuki’s throat was being abused in all the right ways. It was enough to have the younger blonde close as well as his own hands were in his pants, stroking his own cock. A few more harsh thrusts and Monoma felt himself unravel, spilling his cum deep into Katsuki’s cavern. The younger blonde spluttered and coughed as the other came into his mouth, but it was erotic enough to have Katsuki cumming into his pants as well.
  Monom finally let Katsuki up from his dick as the younger spat out the cum onto the floor. They both sat there trying to catch their breaths after their mindblowing orgasms. 
  “Mm you did well ‘Tsuki. Now let’s go get cleaned up, yeah?” Monoma spoke softly as Katsuki nodded.
      Chapter 7: Day 6, Wax Play: Todoroki X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Here's a little waxplay between one of my biggest Bakugou ships. I hope you all enjoy. I tried to take a more loving and passionate route with this kink. I hope I achieved what my vision was for this chapter.
    Chapter Text
    The two lovebirds finished chewing up their last pieces of food. Shouto wore a satisfied look on his face as he finally finished his amazing meal made by his husband, Katsuki. The blonde tired his head to the side from across the table, silently asking the other if he enjoyed his dinner.Shouto wiped the corners of his mouth with a soft smile, “Dinner was amazing, Kat. As usual, your cooking is immaculate.” Shouto finished his sentence by making a chef’s kiss gesture.Katsuki smiled and rolled his eyes at the others' antics. He got up from his seat and grabbed a towel, hitting Shouto playfully in the side with it, “I swear to got you fuckin dork. I seriously regret ever showing you around the internet.” They both chuckled in content, staring lovingly into each other's eyes. Katsuki quickly shook his head, trying to stop gazing at the other, “Jesus halfie, you really turnin’’ me into a sap here?”Shouto snorted and held his arms towards the other male, motioning him to sit on his lap. Katsuki rolled his eyes and crossed his arms in defiance, but nonetheless slid himself onto his husband's lap. One slightly warm and one slightly cold arm wrapped around both sides of Katsuki, encasing him in a big bear hug. The blonde made a ‘tch’ sound, and patted Shouto’s head endearingly.“You’ve always been such a clingy fucker, Shouto.” The blonde said with a soft smile on his face.Shouto sat his head in the crook of the blonde’s neck and mumbled, “Mm yeah but you love this ‘clingy fucker’.” Katsuki chuckled but let out a shaky breath from the other’s warm mouth against his sensitive neck. He hummed out as he felt Shouto start to give little kisses against the blonde’s nape. Katsuki let out tiny soft gasps, which only egged Shouto on more.The duel-haired male started sucking and nibbling on Katsuki’s milky skin, giving him small love marks. Katsuki arched slightly, giving Shouto more access.“Mm I forgot to mention that along with being clingy, you’re also like a bear. Always trying to devour me like I’m some piece of meat.” The blonde complained, followed by a whine as Shouto sunk his teeth into his neck.Katsuki went limp in his husband's lap, letting him do as he pleases with the blonde. Shouto took Katsuki’s arms and wrapped them loosely around his neck.“Don’t compare yourself to meat, dear. You’re much more...flavorful.” Shouto said before running his cold and hot fingers underneath Katsuki’s back.Katsuki shivered as Shouto’s hands explored his body. They traveled up his spine, one cold finger running up the middle which only caused the blonde to gasp in pleasure. Every touch sent sparks throughout the bonde’s body as he succumbed to their desires. Shouto detached his lips from Katsuki’s neck and lifted the others shirt off. His mouth soon found onto one of Katsuki’s nipple. His warm wet mouth sucked and bit gently, teasing the smaller male.“Hahhh… Shouto.” Katsuki sighed out, lolling his head back as he arched more into Shouto’s touch. Shouto bit down harshly all of a sudden, drawing a surprised moan from Katsuki. Shouto smirked against the others skin as he saw the blonde squirm and keen below him. “God, bastard. Your mouth does wonders holy shit…” Katsuki praised, tugging softly at the other’s locks.Shouto let go of Katsuki’s hardened buds and gripped the bottom of his thigh. Katsuki let out a squeak as Shouto lifted the both of them up, setting the blonde onto the table.“Look at you baby. You’re like dessert after our dinner. Already on the table for me, huh?” Shouto whispered into the others ear, sending blood rushing to Katsuki’s face.The blonde lightly punched Shouto’s shoulder and blushed, “Y-You bastard. Just shut your trap and get on with it already.”Shouto hummed in response as his mouth was suddenly against Katsukis plush lips. All the while making out passionately, Shouto’s hands rubbed all over the blonde’s torso. Teasing the others' nipples, feeling the curve of Katsuki’s abs. He knew the affect his hands had on the blonde. Shouto relished in the fact that he’s the only one who’s able to deduce Katsuki into a blushing whiny mess. Finally, his hands got down to the waistband of Katsuki’s pants. He slowly unbuttoned the blonde’s pants and unzipped them, lifting the other up to remove his pants fully. Katsuki took his own initiative to remove his shirt as Shouto took off his bottoms. Katsuki let out a whine of need as his cock was finally freed from the confines of his boxers.“Mm lay back for me baby.” Shouto commanded, pushing a palm on Katsuki’s chest to lie the other male down onto the table. The blonde gave him a confused look but his eyes followed where Shouto’s other hand was going. Katsuki’s eyes widened as he mumbled “kinky fucker” under his breath once he saw Shouto reaching towards the long candle that previously sat between the two. Shouto shot a glance towards the blonde, silently asking if this was okay. Katsuki gave him a curt nod before Shouto spoke, “Let me know if it hurts too much. I know you can take it though, so I won’t worry too much. Just remember our safeword baby.”Slowly Shouto tipped the top of the candle, letting a few experimental drops of wax onto the blonde’s skin. Katsuki let out a few gasps and shuddering breaths at the small droplets spread out over his stomach. Even though it wasn’t a lot, Katsuki felt the tiny burning sensations melting into his core. It felt all too erotic.Once again, Shouto tipped the candle. He made a trail down Katsuki’s abs, starting right under his pecs all the way to his navel.“K-Kahh~” Katsuki moaned out, the pain turning into pleasure after every little bit of wax dripped onto him. The dual-haired male smirked at the others' reaction and continued. He made several lines and designs using the wax. He brought his cooler hand downwards, to cup Katsuki’s half-hard cock. The two sensations had the blonde writhing on the table, wanting more.“T-Touch me more, loser.” Katsuki said, feeling his stomach tighten as Shouto fondled his dick, making it harder by the second.Shouto complied, starting to stroke up and down Katsuki’s length. The temperature difference was oh so delicious. The heat of the wax on his already hot skin and the coolness of Shouto’s right hand on his cock. It was practically driving the blonde insane.“Mm-ahh! S-Shouto~” The blonde moaned when the other sped up the speed of his hand.Just as Katsuki was getting closer and closer, Shouto tipped the candle once more, drawing a big heart on the blonde’s torso slowly. Katsuki cried out as he started to lose himself in pleasure. It was all just enough to have the blonde unravelling at the seams.“Fu-uhh-ck! C-Cumming!” The blonde warned before his cock started to spurt out white ropes of cum.Katsuki’s head was thrown back as a long drawn-out moan escaped from his lips. He came all over his stomach, over the wax. He hissed as the hardening wax was suddenly cooled by his own semen.“Ughh, Sho. You made me a fuckin’ mess. Well, you did this to me, so I hope you know that your ass is cleaning me too.” Shouto only chuckled and nodded his head as he gave Katsuki a swift kiss on the lips. From then on, the two lovers had both cleaned up and found themselves cuddling until they fell asleep.
      Chapter 8: Day 7, Tentacles: Amajiki X Bakugou
          Summary:
            This chap is pretty shitty tbh. I didn't re-read it over, plus I also have no experience reading or writing Amajiki as a character. Sorry if he seems a lil too OOC. I just want Bakuhoe to get fucked in every way possible lmaooo.
    Chapter Text
    Katsuki grunted as he held his arms out to guard his body. His body being pushed back by the force of Amajiki’s tentacles trying to grab him. He cursed as he was suddenly on the defensive position, jumping around as the other just let his tendrils free. Suddenly, the older male had a tight grip on the blonde, effectively seizing Katsuki. The blonde thrashed around in Tamaki’s hold, making small blasts go up his arms in hopes that they would somewhat loosen the grip so he could escape. “You fucker! Let me go or else I’ll blast your ass across this country!” He fumed, meanwhile Amajiki paid no mind to his threats.If anything, the grip around him got tighter. He felt one slimy tentacle run up his left leg, gripping his exposed thigh to prevent him from squirming. Katsuki did stop at that, but with a flush up his face in embarrassment. Amajiki gave him a questioning look but didnt ask further.Suddenly, Amajiki let out a gasp as he suddenly lost control of his own quirk. His strong tendrils had pinned the blonde against the ground with a a grunt coming from the other.“Hey dumbass, release me now. You’re gonna fucking regret it, senpai” Katsuki said in a mocking tone.Before Amajiki could utter a word, his own tentacles slithered farther up the blonde’s legs, going into his pants. Katsuki laid there as he surprisingly let out a gasp and adverted his gaze.“A-Ahh Sorry K-Katsuki. I-I don’t k-know what’s going o-on with my q-quirk.” Amajiki panicked slightly, watching his own quirk defy his own body.Katsuki opened his mouth to make a snarky retort, but before he could, he was cut off by his own moan. This sudden noise had come from Amajiki’s tentacles invading his shirt, caressing his chiseled torso. The blonde arched his back into the tentacle’s touch. He started to let out little whines when they eventually played with his chest. “A-Amajiki senpai~” Katsuki moaned quietly, causing his senior to blush immensely.Amajiki couldn’t find it in himself to look away, he found the scene quite erotic even though it was simply his quirk touching his kouhai. His entire body felt on fire because he now had control over his quirk again, but he didn’t wanna stop, no matter how guilty he felt at the moment. All he new was that he was making his kouhai feel pleasure.Katsuki on the other hand felt extremely embarrassed at the moment. He could feel Amajiki’s burning gaze into him as the tentacles violated his body.“K-Katsuki, i-is it okay if I-I keep g-going?” The older male stuttered out, making sure his kouhai had his consent.Katsuki bashfully nodded his head as he succumbed to the pleasure. He wasn’t gotta lie, being touched by tentacles was strange, but it was also slightly...arousing? His own train of thought has been cut off as he felt his pants being pulled down. The tentacles palmed his crotch through his boxers, the blonde arching his back further into Amajiki’s touch. He wanted more, and he couldn’t deny that. Neither of them could deny that.“G-Gahh~” Katsuki choked out a moan as his cock sprung free from the confines of his boxers.Amajiki knew they had to be quiet since they are in a public space where anyone could walk in, so he shoved a tentacle into the blondes mouth. As much as Amajiki loved to hear the blonde whimper and whine, he knew he had to gag him. Katsuki had no complaints once the tendril was shoved into his throat. He silently thanked the fact that he didn’t have a gag reflex.“Mmpf” Katsuk’s muffled moans could still be slightly heard around the thick limb in his mouth.The tentacles on his nipples and around his cock felt heavenly. These two sensations along with his restricted airflow had brought great pleasure to Katsuki’s masochistic tendencies. The tentacles went up and down the blonde’s shaft, teasing the slit and head. Katsuki threw his head back as he let out a loud moan, although it was merely a strong vibration that went up Amajiki’s tendrils all the way to his own cock, which was straining against the fabric of his pants.Suddenly Amajiki got another idea. He took the tentacle that was in the blonde’s mouth  and moved it downwards to his ass. Katsuki let out choked coughs as he regained his breath. He let out a gasp as he felt the slimy tendril in between his thick asscheeks.It slowly pressed in shallowly, making Katsuki hold his breath in anticipation. Although it was suddenly let out as he moaned loudly from the tentacles in which were wrapped firmly around his dick.“Y-You sound so..lovely, b-bunny.” Amajiki stuttered out in praise, seeing the flush spread throughout Katsuki’s built, but tiny body.Katsuki keened at the praise and let out a long moan as the tendril started to fully enter his tight heat.“S-Senpai~” The blonde moaned wantonly, pushing himself back against the tentacle entering him.Amajiki let out a low groan as well, he could practically feel the other around his own dick from his quirk being connected to his body. His tentacle only got thicker the farther it went inside the blonde.“Y-you’re such a good b-bunny. T-Taking these tentacles s-so well. Look at y-you. You already took s-seven inches.” Amajiki praised, only to receive a high-pitched whine from the blondeAmajiki could only assume that he hit the others' sweet spot unintentionally, because his tentacles were that thick. “G-Gahh~ Amajiki-senpai! S-So good!” Katsuki babled mindlessly, he felt so full. Slowly, Amajiki pulled out his tentacle with only the tip remaining inside. Katsuki waiting a few seconds before he felt it being shoved harshly back into his hole with a loud squelch. Amajiki kept up this pace, practically manhandling the blonde. Katsuki was at his dispense, there for his to use for his own pleasure whenever he wanted. The blonde was essemtially a living fuck doll.Amajiki’s thrusting of tentacles has sped up, both on Katsuki’s cock and in his hole. “Hahh- s-so close! Mm!” The blonde said before cumming with a loud moan.His body covered in sweat was now covered in cum. He painted his chest and part of Amajiki’s tentacle with his semen. After he calmed down from his orgasm, Katsuki had just silently laid there, wondering what the hell had just happened.“S-So uhm- K-Katsuki-” Amajiki was cut off by the blonde.“I don’t regret what just happened.” He said bluntly.“N-Neither do I.” Amajiki stated before scratching his neck nervously and gulping.His own erection was still raging, but he didn’t want to overwhelm the other more than he already had. Silently, Katsuki’s gaze had landed right there. With a smirk, the blonde had wobbled his way over and got on his knees in front of Amajiki.The blue-haired male was too shy too keep eye contact so he looked anywhere but Katsuki. “Oi, don’t think we have to stop now.” His words echoed through the other's mind.Katsuki’s words held nothing but dirty implications of what was to come.
      Chapter 9: Day 8, Dirty Talk: Hawks X Bakugou
          Summary:
            Heyoo~ I tried my hand at a lotta dirty talk so I hope you all enjoyy!
    Chapter Text
  A surprised gasp comes from Katsuk’s mouth as he was being slammed hard against his door as soon as he stepped into his shared apartment. Who he shared the apartment with was none other than Pro-Hero Hawks. They had been dating for a few months now. It all started when Katsuki walked into Keigo’s agency. The young blonde was fresh out of hero school, 18 and ready to become a real pro.
  Before Katsuki could squeak in protest, a set of warm lips were against his. Keigo’s lips pressed hard against his as the Hero’s snaked his arms down to hold Katsuki’s waist firmly. After his seconds of surprise, Kastuki started kissing the other back, wrapping his arm around Keigo. One of his hands played with the back of Keigo’s hair, tugging softly as they both pressed together impossibly closer.
  After letting Keigo have his way with him, Katsuki broke away from the kiss with a glare.
  The older male grunted in protest, but was cut off by Katsuki, “So, 
    Keigo
  , wanna tell me why you basically jumped me as soon as I walked through the door?” The blonde crossed his arms as he interrogated the other.
  “Mm just missed my favorite little Songbird~” Keigo said in a teasing tone, knowing how much the nickname pissed off the younger male.
  Katsuki sighed as he pinched the bridge of his nose, “You’re horny, aren’t you?” 
  Katsuki is still not used to Keigo’s unusually high sex drive, but he technically isn’t complaining. 
  Keigo gave him a smirk, “Ding ding ding, blonde! Hit the head right on the nail. Now, let me ravage your beautiful self.” Katsuki’s eyes widened slightly and used a hand to cover the lower half of his face as he flushed.
  Before Katsuki could stutter out a retort, Keigo was back to pressing him against the door with his full weight, preventing him from escaping. His lips once again found Katsukis, passionately taking control. His tongue sneaked it’s way into Katsuki’s mouth, deepening their kiss. The younger blonde hummed into the kiss as he started sucking on Keigo’s tongue. This continued on for a few minutes until Keigo started grinding his crotch against Katsuki’s.
  “Mmm...C’mon you horny bird. Let’s get to the bedroom at least?” Katsuki persuaded Keigo, only to receive a quick nod in response.
  The winged hero practically dragged Katsuki across their apartment. Once in their bedroom, Keigo tossed the younger male onto the bed, landing with a surprised ‘oof’ sound.
  “H-Hey watch what you’re doing fucke-” Katsuki was cut off as a growled bubbled up from Keigo’s throat.
  The younger blonde gulped as he felt the other’s sudden predatory gaze on him. The air around them suddenly changed, it became thick and hard to breathe.
  “I’m done messing around, 
    Songbird
  . Now, be a good little boy for me and get on your knees.” Katsuki had shivers running through his body at the other’s tone.
  The younger decided it would be best to not be such a brat tonight, so he rose up from his place on the bed and sank down onto his knees in front of Keigo. He peered up through his bangs only to meet the winged hero’s burning gaze, eyes glazed with lust. He hesitated before bringing up his hands to the older’s pants, unbuttoning and unzipping them carefully. He pulled them down along with his underwear.
  Keigo let out a sigh as his erection was finally free. It slapped against Katsuki’s face, Keigo smirking down at the smaller male. 
  “Go ahead, kid. Why don’t you put that pretty mouth of yours to use, huh? If it’s good enough for your back talking, then it’s good enough for sucking cock. Wouldn’t you say the same?” 
  Katsuki let out a small whimper at the others’ words, slowly dragging his tongue along the side of Keigo’s dick. The older had a tight grip onto Katsuki’s soft locks, holding it firmly in place to remind the other who’s in charge. 
  “Ahh…” Keigo sighed as Katsuki began his mouth's descent down his length.
  His grip on Katsuki’s hair only tightened as he tried to refrain from fucking the younger’s throat when they’ve just started. Katsuki finally got to work, slowly bobbing his head and then taking the other as far as he could down his throat. The blonde silently thanked himself for having no gag reflex since he can take cock down in his mouth with no problem.
  “Mm fuck baby. Such a good little Songbird you are, yeah? I feel bad for everyone else who hasn’t gotten to feel your mouth around them. Your mouth is heavenly, it needs to be shared. But I don’t want to because I’m a possessive bastard. Your mouth, your body, and you in an entirety belong to me. You’re my
   slut
  .” Keigo’s filthy words and moans were the only thing filling Katsuki’s ears.
  The blonde moaned and worked harder, enjoyed every bit of the winged hero’s words. No matter how embarrassing, he always loved everything that came from Keigo’s lips. Katsuki started moving faster, bobbing his head before suddenly settling at the base.
  Keigo’s hands suddenly grabbed the sides of Katsuki’s face. The younger knew what he was getting himself into as soon as he felt the other grabbing his face roughly. Preparing himself before a rough fucking, Katsuki breathed in air through his nose. 
  “God fuck! Your mouth is so fuckin’ erotic. I always love taking you down a few pegs like this. No one else would suspect how beautiful you look on your knees like this with my cock down your throat. Choking so perfectly on my fat cock like this. Such a pretty baby.” The winged hero rambled, just letting the words flow out of his mouth shamelessly as he started to fuck Katsuki’s face.
  Katsuki keened at the words, touching himself in his pants as Keigo abused his throat. He thrust his hips harshly, making sure the younger took him all the way with every movement. The wet heat was so good, providing an immense amount of pleasure to the older. Katsuki felt himself get close, loving the feeling of being used like this.
  “Your throat is mine. You’re basically my fucking fleshlight baby. Mine to use and cum as much as I want inside. Speaking of cum, you better get ready baby. I’m so close to filling that pretty mouth of yours to the brim with my cum.” 
  Keigo thrusted in a few more times, every thrust getting harsher and harsher. Katsuki’s hands went faster on his own cock, both of them in sync. 
  “G-God fuck! C-Cumming! Oh fuck yeah, you like that? Like my cum so. fucking. deep.” He punctuated the last words with stuttering thrusts as he came, his semen filling up Katsuki’s mouth.
  The blonde spluttered at the sudden intrusion, but it was just enough to push him over the edge. Katsuki was seeing stars as his face was forced against the base of Keigo’s cock. The older male held him there, grinding his hips in as he made sure every last drop of his cum was inside Katsuki’s mouth. Once finished, he finally let the blonde go.
  “Don’t swallow a single drop baby. We aren’t done yet, so you better keep that cum in your mouth until i say to swallow. Which, won’t be until you’re a mess, drooling as I fuck you dumb on my cock.” Keigo said as Katsuki only nodded at his words.
  This was gonna definitely be a long night, Katsuki concluded before once again being roughly tossed onto the bed.
      Chapter 10: !! Announcement !!
          Summary:
            Please read, very important.
    Chapter Text
    Hi babes! Thank you so much for sticking around, but I have some unfortunate news. I will discontinuing this challenge. I am sorry for having to this, so my apologies. I have just been extremely busy with school and work and I barely have time to write. I hope you all understand. &lt;333(Also, this does not mean I won't be writing fanfiction either. I just don't have the time and energy to be writing everyday. )
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (15)
  Comments
          ChristyRe, nicolestarlightwrites, Sapphire12, It_is_what_it_is__It_is_what_it_is, evauwu, Ruebell_Uprising, KlanceandsterekforlifewithasliceofHiJack, ExpectedOutcomes, ShikaShakeMaru, Megan_Leigh_4601, Jennkiss, CutieBread, PlumpFiction, Sheln, Bearshere, inthemindofadany, Violet_skys, RedAlligator, True_Army, nerdy_little_me, Chlo_EEEE21, unkn0wnEnt1ty, ariadice_ms18, Linary, CaroRieson, Meridian_the_babey, xBepox, glitterfangirl, ProfessionalEggspert, It_is_a_reference, AlysaTurner, DoggoLover6969, AthenaTT, ButterCry0_0, TheCeilingFerret, 666hello_satan, cherryexplosion, Mystorius, Tanibaku, Nyoko, ReadnWrite2_0, AltForTheSea, mus2dc, smoljoon, gasoline0707, Mxrigxld, TrashForJimin, RinTrevor, SimpForStrongBoys, Idkeiadh_BakuBB4, 
               and 9 more users
            Ellie_Megumi, mediumcanis, bakushiphoe, That_Little_Kid, exousia, Catduh, Asthma_Attack23, Charlotte_AdAstra and CaPowArsenic
             as well as 
          85 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
