      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Saint Barry
2. Late Night Visit
3. A Confession and A Kiss
4. Apologies, and the Grave
5. The Resurrection
6. Oh, Brother
7. Bedroom Talks
8. The Morning After
9. Mourning
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Misfits (TV 2009)
              Relationship:
               Simon Bellamy/Nathan Young
              Characters:
               Simon BellamyNathan YoungKelly BaileyAlisha DanielsCurtis Donovan
              Additional Tags:
               Slow BurnDeveloping RelationshipNathan Young Being Nathan YoungNathan Young Has FeelingsSeries 1 Finale AUSimon saves Nathan on the roofNathan might be a little OOCLet's just say near death experiences change himPast Child AbusePast Sexual AbuseRecreational Drug UseMentions of Suicide Attempt
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-03-28Updated:2020-09-22Words:30255Chapters:9/?Comments:56Kudos:326Bookmarks:60Hits:3144
      As Desperate As That Sounds
      BigBadLittleRed
      Chapter 9: Mourning
        Notes:
          ( Hey y'all, I know it's been a hot minute. But I was actually without power for like twenty-three days after Hurricane Laura, and I still don't have internet so I'm using a mobile hotspot to upload this. I'm safe, we have a small hole in our roof and ceiling, but we can still live in the house. My college also just restarted up, despite nobody having good internet access. So things are kind of hectic around here, just be patient with me.Anyways, I already started the next chapter. I hope you like this one! I'm gonna put a trigger warning description at the bottom of the chapter if you want to check that out. )
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    The silence seemed to stretch on forever, and Simon had no clue as to what he was meant to do. What do you say to someone who lost a brother he met a day ago? In the quiet, the ticking of the clock in the living room is the only sound being made nearby. Nathan hasn’t begun to cry, nor have his eyes dried of their glossy sheen of tears either. He’s just sitting there, staring at Simon’s phone with a lost little frown on his face. Simon debates reaching out, touching Nathan, but maybe that’s not a very good idea. A normal person would be able to offer words of comfort, but all speech seems to escape Simon as he sits helplessly next to his best mate. He wants to ask what happened, how Kelly knows that Jamie is dead. But he doesn’t want to hurt Nathan any further, so he just keeps his mouth shut. Would Lizzie be any better at this? Would it be even mildly appropriate to get his little sister to deal with the grief of his best friend for him? “I should-” Nathan’s eyes search the table as he sits up straight. “Right, yeah.” He stands, wiping at his eye with a boney knuckle briefly. “Are you all right?” It’s the first words he’s managed to conjure up and they sound pathetic and meaningless coming from his mouth. He gets to his feet, now they both are standing in front of the table like idiots. Nathan jerks a little, his head twisting towards Simon but his gaze managing to not even get near the younger’s face. “Pshh, yeah, it’s not like I really knew the bloke.” He mutters, uselessly fidgeting with his shirt. “He was your brother.” He murmurs, Nathan nods his head. “Yeah, I guess.” He’s still nodding, eyes darting around as if searching for somewhere to hide. “Should probably go talk to my dad, they met too. Jamie… He hit him with a toaster and put him in the boot of his car.” He laughs, but it sounds weak and humorless. “What?” Simon’s lip curls back automatically with confusion. Nathan lets out another laugh, eyes still damp. “Y-Yeah, he went to talk to my dad first. Ended up bashing his head in because he was acting like a twat, he probably… Probably deserved it.” He nods, a tear drips from the corner of his eye. There’s more quiet, painful but luckily not as lasting as before. Then Nathan finally looks at Simon, his jaw flexing uncomfortably. “What am I supposed to do?” He asks weakly. Simon flounders for a moment. “I-I…” He doesn’t honestly know, he probably couldn’t figure out his own emotions in a situation like this let alone someone else’s. “I should go.” Nathan says, and then they both stare at each other. “Right? That’s what I should do, I should leave.” He doesn’t move from his spot. “You don’t have to.” Simon manages, his hands twitch at his sides, then he reaches up gingerly towards Nathan’s shoulder. Nathan’s shoulder stiffens and his face crumples slightly. Simon’s body tenses when Nathan jerks forward, but then his arms are full of the taller boy. Nathan makes himself small, tucking his face into Simon’s shoulder and hugging him tight. Simon hesitates briefly, but then returns the hug. Nathan’s shaking a bit, his breath is ragged, and his fists are bunching up Simon’s shirt in the back. “If you need to go see your dad, I’ll come with you.” He offers quietly, Nathan’s head shifts on his shoulder. “Can we stay here?” He mumbles. Simon thinks about what his mum said, about how she’ll be home tonight. She might pry, Lizzie most definitely will. But right now, he’s not worried about that, he just wants Nathan to stop shaking. He wants Nathan to stop sounding so lost and scared, he wants to make sure Nathan is okay. “Of course.” - They spend the morning watching movies, Nathan cuddled up against Simon like the night before. He doesn’t have much to say, neither does Simon honestly. But he wraps an arm around Nathan to make sure he knows that he’ll be there for him, even if he doesn’t have the words for this sort of scenario. Eventually, between one movie and the next, Nathan sits up. “Look, I don’t think you should tag along.” He explains, not even remotely glancing in Simon’s direction as he puts his shoes on. “Oh.” He tries not to feel too hurt, it’s probably not personal. He doesn’t have a right to join Nathan on such an intimate journey. “All right.” “He…” Nathan sighs, shaking his head and leaning forward further to retie his sneaker. “He’s just a prick.” Simon wants to object, say that’s the whole reason he should go with Nathan. This is the man that accused his son of attention-seeking when he was abused as a child. But he respects Nathan’s wishes, and simply leans back against his headboard. “Yeah.” “I’ll see you around, then?” He stands up from the bed. “Uh-huh.” He agrees quietly, and then Nathan is gone. - Nathan is on Simon’s mind for the rest of the day. He stays mostly cooped up in his room scrolling through web pages. He knows that Nathan needs his space, but the memory of those dewy green eyes makes him worry. His mother comes home and makes dinner, and they eat quietly, awkwardly. It’s only after a round of Mario Kart with Lizzie that he’s started to take his mind off the entire thing. Of course, that’s when his phone starts ringing. When he checks the screen, Nathan’s name is there in bright white letters. He pauses the game and stands up without a word, answering the phone and heading outside through the front door. “Hello?” “Hey,” Nathan’s voice is quiet on the line. “How’s it hangin’?” “Uh,” He glances one way down the street and the other as he walks down his front steps. “F-Fine, um… Yeah, fine.” “Good.” A long quiet, Nathan clears his throat but says nothing else. “How did seeing your dad go?” He asks politely, because he’s unsure as to exactly what Nathan wants. “He was a prick, as usual…” He can’t be sure over the phone, but Nathan sounds a bit funny. “Oh.” “Look, I just… Something happened.” He says a bit breathily. “And I don’t really know what to do.” “You didn’t kill him, did you?” Simon questions warily. “Who?” “Your dad.” “No, you twat. I’m not the one with a homicide fetish here!” Nathan snaps. Simon rolls his eyes. “I don’t have-” “I know, I know.” Nathan sighs, seemingly tired. “I saw Jamie.” “At the morgue?” His lip curls up slightly. “No.” Nathan sounds so small, so scared. “Round my dad’s place, he was just standing there. My dad didn’t say anything, and Jamie saw me lookin’ at him and started trying to talk to me and I booked it out of there. I think I’m losing it, Barry.” Simon’s eyes widen as he hears this story. “Where are you?” “Couple blocks from your place,” Nathan admits, then quickly continues. “I wasn’t trying to come over or nothin’, I know that’d be weird. I just didn’t want to…” His voice trails off and he sighs. Simon remains quiet, hoping that his silence forces Nathan to finish his sentence. “Barry?” Nathan’s voice is soft, vulnerable. “You still there?” “Y-Yeah, yeah.” He nods his head despite knowing Nathan can’t see him. “You can come over, i-if you want.” “Cheers, mate.” And then a pause of indecisive quiet. “Lizzie didn’t rat to your mum about the boyfriend thing, did she?” Simon can feel a flush building on his cheeks. “Ehm, no.” He pointedly doesn’t mention that his mum came to the conclusion that they were together anyway last night. “That’s good, I’m not tryin’ to get you hate crimed or nothin’.” He clears his throat, then. “A-And I wasn’t takin’ the piss out of you or nothin’ either, you know that, right?” “What do you mean?” “Blokes usually get mad when you insinuate they’re gay.” Nathan lets out a quiet chuckle into the receiver. “I wasn’t mad.” He says quietly. “Right, yeah.” Another awkward throat-clearing noise. He wants to ask so many more questions, to discuss this in depth, but he doesn’t know how. He curses his inability to fully communicate his intentions, because usually he just ends up talking in circles or saying something that’s taken wrong. They stay on the phone together despite not saying anything, Nathan is extremely quiet. But Simon refuses to hang up unless Nathan asks to, though he doesn’t know why. Maybe he’s just a bit wary thinking about him walking alone at night. He still has the image of Nathan’s bloody, beaten body on that bathroom floor seared into his brain. He doesn’t want anything like that happening again. He sees Nathan coming down the street not long after and hangs up the phone now that he’s in sight. “Hey,” Simon greets with a small wave that Nathan returns, looking distracted. “You do believe me, about the Jamie thing, right?” Nathan asks. Simon nods his head. “Could be another power.” “What? Hallucinations?” Nathan scoffs. “Seeing the dead.” Simon says, and Nathan blinks at him in surprise. “Your power does have to do with death, technically.” “Don’t say it like that, it’s creepy.” Nathan steps a little closer, his hands are in his pockets and he looks paler than usual. “What if he’s at the funeral?” “Jamie?” When he earns a nod, Simon shrugs. “Wouldn’t you go to your own funeral?” “I dunno, I’ve never had one!” Nathan insists. “You did.” Simon says, earning a puzzled look. “Private service.” “Christ, Barry.” Nathan laughs as his face breaks into a grin, Simon smirks. After a moment, Nathan glances away and then frowns. He reaches up and scratches at his cheek, maybe it’s a trick of the light but he looks a bit stubbly above his lip. He looks back at Simon and stares at him for a moment, obviously thinking. “What?” “I don’t remember being dead.” Nathan says, chewing on the inside of his cheek briefly. “But I had to be, I was.” “Maybe you can’t remember being a spirit if you come back. People who die and come back sometimes see a light or something like that.” Simon explains. “Can we go inside?” Nathan crosses his arms, Simon nods and they head into the house together. Lizzie spots him coming in, and rushes into the hall to meet them. “Nathan, do you want to play Mario Kart?” She asks with a big smile. Simon looks to Nathan, he can see the cogs in his head turning. “Nathan’s not feeling well, maybe another time.” “Oh.” The disappointment on her face makes Simon feel genuinely guilty. “Rain check, yeah?” Nathan says with a small smile. “Okay.” Lizzie nods her head, seeming a little less upset. She walks off back into the living room. Simon spots his mother peeking through the door to the kitchen. He heads up the stairs, not meeting her eyes. Nathan follows him up and he shuts them into his room. Simon grabs his laptop and sets it onto the bed, moving to his shelf to look for a DVD. Nothing with ghosts, probably. He grabs Hannibal, because it’s pretty good and Nathan had made a reference to it before and hadn’t even seen it. He sets up the laptop and pulls up the movie, pausing it before it starts and then moving to take off his shoes and socks. When he looks over at Nathan, he’s just sitting on the bed, looking despondent. “You… I mean, do you want to stay the night again?” He asks, snapping Nathan out of his daze. “You aren’t sick of me?” Nathan jokes with a small smirk, but it doesn’t reach his eyes. Insecurity lies there, Simon thinks. “No.” He answers honestly, then walks over to the dresser. “You want to change?” “Uh, sure.” Nathan looks out of his element, but they both undress and get into more comfortable clothes. He lends Nathan a pair of pajama bottoms, and doesn’t mention the fact that he decided on going shirtless. They go and brush their teeth; Simon finds a spare toothbrush for Nathan. It feels familiar despite having never done it before, Nathan makes a face at him in the mirror with a mouth full of foam. They retreat to the hallway, and Simon stops at Lizzie’s bedroom to peek in on her. She’s fast asleep. He tries to be a good big brother, especially considering their parents aren’t really the best. They love Lizzie, most days he’s sure they love her more than him. But they aren’t the best parents, never have been too emotionally available. “She sleepin’?” Nathan’s voice is at his back, Simon nods his head. When they get back into the room, Simon shuts off the light and they climb into bed. Simon settles the laptop where they both can see it. He doesn’t comment on Nathan pressing his cheek to Simon’s shoulder the second he’s still. They’re quiet through the first ten or so minutes, but eventually Nathan starts making quiet comments and asking questions. Simon answers him, tells him about the intricacies of the film, the behind the scenes facts. Nathan listens, makes jokes, and seems to relax as the movie plays on. “Barry?” “Mm?” “Jamie’s funeral is tomorrow.” Simon waits for him to continue, but he doesn’t. “Do you want me to come with you?” Nathan adjusts his head on his shoulder, sighs. “If you’re not busy or nothin’.” “I’d go even if I was.” Simon admits. “Oh.” They finish the movie, and then watch another. Nathan is still awake by the time Simon is ready to call it a night, so he gets up to put the laptop on his desk so it can charge. He fidgets with it a bit longer than he usually might, and when he turns back around Nathan is curled up watching him. “Your mum’s not gonna get weird about this if she sees us, is she?” Nathan asks as Simon climbs into bed. “I can throw myself onto the floor if I hear her coming.” He offers. “N-No, she already saw us… Last night.” He admits, laying down facing Nathan. Their faces are inches apart, Nathan’s breath smells like Simon’s toothpaste. “She didn’t freak out?” Nathan looks surprised, if not wary. “I don’t think she cares enough to be angry. She didn’t even care when I got arrested.” He admits, pulling the blanket up to his shoulder. “What about your dad?” Nathan has a small frown on his face. “He cares about his image, I think.” He murmurs. “Didn’t visit when I was taken to hospital for evaluation.” “I’d visit you in the nuthouse, Barry.” Nathan says quietly, they both share small smirks. “Honest. Those places get boring.” “What do you mean?” Simon frowns. “Well,” Nathan looks nervous then, he lets out a small unsure chuckle. “I just figured.” “Oh.” He doesn’t quite believe Nathan, but he doesn’t want to push him either. They fall quiet for a minute, Nathan is staring down at the sheets. “I don’t want you to think I’m pussy or somethin’.” He eventually says, not looking up. Simon swallows, shifts his legs under the sheets. “I don’t.” “I just… I freaked out a bit, after I got out of school.” He says quietly, shaking his head. “I took a bunch of pills, it was stupid. Everyone overreacted, I got locked up for a bit.” Simon reaches across the mattress, finds Nathan’s wrist and squeezes it gently. “I don’t think it’s stupid.” “I’m not depressed or nothin’, so don’t get worried I’m gonna off myself or something.” He mutters as he pulls his hand out of Simon’s grip, his voice sounding a bit thick. He doubts that Nathan isn’t depressed, anyone likely would be after all he’s been through. Parents who obviously don’t care all that much, if at all. Childhood sexual abuse, being kicked out of his house and living in a community centre. Being beaten to death and coming back, waking up in a grave and having to dig himself out. Hell, they could be just merely scratching the surface. Maybe somewhere down the line Nathan will admit other traumas, deeper and hidden, things he might not have even registered as trauma. Nathan is a broken man, and Simon understands what it’s like to be hiding cracks beneath his skin. “If you were, you could tell me.” Simon says, and Nathan lets out a quiet huff of disbelief. “I’m serious, you can tell me anything.” “Right, yeah, whatever.” Nathan is obviously embarrassed, more so than his last confession. He turns over, facing away from him. Simon lets it drop, and they’re quiet once again. He’s a bit startled when Nathan speaks up, having thought that he was going to bed. “You could too.” “What?” He scoots a bit closer. “If you wanted.” Nathan says a bit louder, still facing away from him. “You could… Y’know… Talk to me. About anythin’, whatever.” Simon smiles. “Thanks.” “And y’know, if you wanted to be more comfortable, you could…” He makes a gesture with his arm. “Spoon you?” Simon finds himself grinning a bit. “Don’t get cheeky, you pervy wanker.” Nathan snaps, reaching back and grabbing his arm. Simon moves up against his back, wraps an arm around him and settles his head on Nathan’s pillow. “Good night, Barry.” He huffs, even though he’s cuddling Simon’s arm to his chest. “Good night, Nate.” He replies, a bit smugly.
        Notes:
          ( Trigger Warning! In this chapter there is a brief mention of Nathan's sexual abuse, and a past suicide attempt and hospitalization. Nathan claims he isn't depressed and that he won't kill himself in his usual, nonchalant way. Nothing graphic, but I still include these to make sure y'all are safe. )( I hope you enjoyed this chapter, if you did be sure to leave a kudos if you haven't and a comment if you have the time! I love reading you guys' comments, it keeps me chugging along! )
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (10)
  Comments
          Cairoon, Commander_McNugget, Sleepy_Ash03, AbbyTemple, ArtyFarty, Vixenmoon, Detective_Rin, Kaetian, doriande_r, PinkCows, Naruko202, Itsmi, disconcerting_feelings, WhenIWasAYoungBoy, RebeccaNovak19107, Tanza, dragonwings_703, Fuckthehoes, Soucky, AnneMcSommers, ellowhatsalldisdenluv, MaryHasArrived, lukesanxiety, Apollyon_McCactus, Dopheld, DevAlastor, Gabry_Kaufmann, medeaisdead, WitchZakuro, Ukelads, Zermal, viquesupertrash, ladyamante, Mehooleygan, leahelena, Glitterndroses, VNioV, SaltyKettleChips, Eeyoreneedsahug, red11111111, Nairun, theodrades, nikevi, ClaraAyres, Alonelily, CrimsonEyedKitsune, I_Are_Bagel_Jesus, lulublankee, Rainbowsaga, kaleidosaur, 
               and 102 more users
            Jennyx, tearyeyedfloatything, NekoLover2087, DarlingGJxhnsxn, dragneelxoxo, FlaccidMeatStick, heyamory, HarleyxQueen, Rey_28, Memefucker246sodone, Fogo_Ilse_of_FIRE2121, serendipidity, jelliedfire, Ember_27, DeadmanHorizon, Simqly_Alex, MissHowdoyoudo, jemomemos, ZhuZhuPet, AmeliaSnowfall, DaniD123, TheGreatUnicornDetective, middle_earthling, MythicalFlyingLizard, absolutebruhmoment, n_adine, DarthRhiannon, messersohara, Brabear, fagstar, MyHeart_Beats, UnicyclesForLife, zombieaesthetic, Unholytoothpick, Coldsouppp, ohnoitsanopinion, jumboflamingo, iwanttochangemyusername, ChocoKit, JennaTheDreamer, luxy27, conSTELLAtions1, JustKitsune, onepunchme, Keesh, GenderBenderFandomLover, cinnamoncat23, bttmhyuck, MurderKitten, RussianCaravan, s0ng_0f_st0rms, Nexhus, SeiSaidSomething, teleglucose, Elioj_exe, TheTeenage, alxxi, quietlyintoemptyspaces, youandiaretemporary, Papagal, Im__satan, I_dont_have_a_name_yet, ratboijoob, MidnightShadeux, gyabou, tisherve, autor_j_d, HorizonWoof, Londonreed, IBeKpopping, ghost13princess, mangoluvva, 2tomhollandsfrog2, avekatanas, BrookSea, TheArchfiend, Obsidi4n, Katerina_Huntress, theweakestthing, SnowballSky12, Dat_Aniki, BittenCleanOff, Doomed_Timelines, klaush, spn_fandom_trash, darkflame, nishiki, MayTheDevilStealMySoul, thedevilwentdowntogeorgia, Skarlettefox, barinescu, Bucky_Bear_Protection, fluffy_bean, brunehilde, honeylove123, jesusonafrickinboat, Redrikki, Marchetta, rubyguard, HATDGR, Fairlystupid and merrymelody
             as well as 
          174 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
