      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Hazel living his best life somewhere
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      The Umbrella Academy (TV)
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      TUA // Just The Weekly End Of The World
      by
      nabhx
      Fandoms:
      The Umbrella Academy (TV)
 Teen And Up Audiences
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings, No Archive Warnings Apply
 Gen, M/M
 Work in Progress
    06 Oct 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings No Archive Warnings ApplyKlaus Hargreeves/David "Dave" KatzLuther Hargreeves Diego Hargreeves Allison Hargreeves Klaus Hargreeves Number Five | The Boy (Umbrella Academy) Ben Hargreeves Vanya Hargreeves David "Dave" Katz Dr. Pogo (Umbrella Academy) Grace Hargreeves Reginald Hargreeves Leonard Peabody The Handler (Umbrella Academy) Cha-Cha (Umbrella Academy) Eudora PatchTags May Change no beta we die like ben Tags Contain Spoilers Reginald Hargreeves' A+ Parenting Protective Diego Hargreeves Protective Ben Hargreeves Klaus Hargreeves Needs A Hug Klaus Hargreeves Deserves Better Luther Hargreeves Needs A Hug Good Sibling Vanya Hargreeves Vanya Hargreeves Gets a Hug Good Sibling Allison Hargreeves Sober Klaus Hargreeves Powerful Klaus Hargreeves Ghost David "Dave" Katz Ghost Ben Hargreeves Good Sibling Number Five | The Boy Number Five | The Boy Has Issues Hazel living his best life somewhere Creepy The Handler (Umbrella Academy)
    Summary
      The apocalypse was successfully avoided.With their house still standing, nothing kept them from going on with their lives. As Allison began her road to recovery and Vanya her much needed training, everything finally seemed to slip into place.But the Umbrella Academy had always been some sort of danger magnet, so of course the easy life didn't last that long. Unfortunately, this time they didn’t have a long lost sibling fall out of the sky to inform them of the impending doom. But with Vanya in safe hands, what could be the cause this time? Was it finally time to face an enemy or problem outside of the family? Or had Reginald screwed up somewhere once again?Maybe the Commission had been right all along; What’s meant to be is meant to be. ((Takes place around season 1))
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    9,181
    Chapters:
    4/?
    Comments:
    7
    Kudos:
    86
    Bookmarks:
    16
  Hits:
  870
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
