      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: "uchiha sasuke/uzumaki naruto" angst kudos&gt;10
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. The forest
2. My attacker
3. unexpected
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles - All Media Types
              Relationship:
               Leonardo/Raphael (TMNT)
              Characters:
               Raphael (TMNT)Leonardo (TMNT)
              Additional Tags:
               DramaRomance
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2017-01-11Completed:2019-07-23Words:14537Chapters:3/3Comments:5Kudos:71Bookmarks:7Hits:1153
      Help me, i'm falling
      Mayly5000
      Chapter 2: My attacker
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    There was nothing but fear running through my mind as I felt another body collide against mine, my internal shock and the sheer force of it easily knocked me off my balance and I cursed myself over and over for not paying enough attention to my surroundings.Before I knew it, two strong arms had wrapped around my waist, capturing me in a vice like grip with my arms uselessly tapped against my sides. There was no way I would be able to keep myself from hitting the ground face first and I squeezed my eyes shut in preparation, but it didn’t happen. The body that had collided with mine had twisted itself in the jump so we would turn mid air and my captor would be the one to land on its back, instead of toppling us over. However, that also meant the fall could not completely stop our movement and we ended up rolling out of the clearing and back under the tree I had been sitting under, only to stop when the other slammed against the tree. The rolling had made my head spin and it took me a while to realise I was on my side, back pressed against my capturer and stuck in a grip I wasn’t sure I could get out off. I was about to struggle, kick or even bite to try and get out of the hold until a grunt escaped the one behind me.It was a sound I would never be able to forget, one I’ve heard over a million times already and the sent that had suddenly hit me with full force could only belong to-!“Raph?-” Looking down at the not only strong and muscled, but green arms squeezing against my waist, I signed in relief as I noticed that it really was my brother. I let out the breath I hadn’t known I was holding and allowed myself to relax in my brother’s grip, but that was short lived as many nagging questions ran through my mind.Why was he here? How did he find me? How did he get here? How did I not sense him? Had he gone out looking for me? Is this why he hadn’t called like Mike and Don?I was about to open my mouth to ask them, but froze as he nuzzled his head into my shoulder and a deep shaky breath escaped him as his arms tightened its grip for a split second before loosening up when I grunted in discomfort. I’ve never seen Raph act this way, it’s as if he’s looking for some kind of… comfort? Reassurance? Whatever it was, I hope he found it.“Shh.” It had come out softly, no more than a whisper, but the last thing I needed was silence right now. I was too confused not to look for answers. Why was Raph here? And how did he get here without anyone spotting him?! Or more importantly! Without me noticing!! He’s never been able to sneak up on me! And on another note, why does he seem so upset?! And on another note, why was he squeezing the life out of me?!“How did you-?”  I didn’t get the chance to finish it as he cut me off quickly, giving me no chance to speak what so ever.“Shh!” It wasn’t as soft as before, but is wasn’t much more than a whisper either. What is he trying to do? He can’t just jump me and expect me not to ask anything! He should have known that.His hold tightened slightly and I swear he is going to break me in half if he puts more pressure into it, but for some reason, I couldn’t tell him to loosen up or let go either. He was defiantly freaked out about something and if there is one thing Raphael rarely does, it’s hugging. Well this is more of a death grip, but you get the idea. Though, as I said before, I needed answers and I need them now. I am not going to force him to let go, but he is damn well going to talk.“Raph, What-?” I didn’t get the chance to ask my question as he shushed me again, but I was willing to keep trying. I was a patient turtle, though this situation is seriously putting that to the test! I had opened my mouth to try again, with no luck…“SHH!” This time it had been a little harsh and I winched at the not so gentle sound so close to my ear slit. He had tightened his hold again and this time I swear he was cutting off the blood flow in my arms, if not squeezing them through the sides of my shell! Not good…I waited a minute for him to ease up like he had done before, but it didn’t look like he was going to in the near future. However he did seem to tense up every few seconds. I don’t know what he was thinking about, but I’m pretty sure the thoughts weren’t any good.  Why won’t he talk? Does he expect me to just lie here, while his thoughts are slowly killing him inside? But he was intent on me keeping quiet, so I complied and kept quiet for a couple more minutes, with no luck it seems. My arms are starting to go numb…Okay that’s it, I need to get out of this grip now! Before I get the life squeezed out of me or his thoughts make him go mental. Damn it! I have to do something, and quick!!“Let go!” I had said it in my best Leader voice, the one he usually seems to listen too, but he didn’t budge, not one inch! Didn’t even seem like he was paying attention to it! He just flinched again.“Leo, be quiet.” His forehead nestled itself further into my neck. And I felt my eyebrow twitch at the unusually calm instruction. How does he sound so calm while his thoughts are tearing him apart? Good thing I am way better at giving orders than I am at taking them, because there is no way I am going to listen to him right now. “Raphael, let me go!” I followed it with a light struggle, hoping he would snap out of it, get the hint and let go on his own before I had to go to put an actual effort into it.“No can do, Leo.” Okay, that calm demeanour of his is seriously starting to piss me off. Time to get outta this death grip!“Oh for the-!” The last of my sentence was lost as I pushed against him with all the energy I could find, pushing against his arms in hopes of loosening his grip enough to break free, but Raph was persistent to hold on and I found myself having more than a little trouble to get out.His endless weightlifting has always given him an advantage over me strength wise and it certainly showed. I know he had to put a lot of effort into not losing his grip, but there was no way I could fight against his muscles this way, but I wasn’t about to-.“Shut it fearless! Just let me…” I froze… he sounded so desperate, so frustrated. I’ve never seen this side of him before and it shocked me. Did my 8 hour absence really do this?! It wasn’t even that long! Or, could this be because of my episode three months ago?“Just let me hold ya fer a minute!” And I did, I stopped struggling all together. Giving into the incredibly sad tone of voice and my eyes popped open wide as small trails of hot water fell against my rain soaked shoulder… This was a side, I’ve never seen from my tough brother Raphael and the thought of me causing it scared me. Why was he this shaken up? I thought he’d hit me if I’d angered or upset him, not… Not this…We laid there for what felt like ages, my frozen and shell shocked form captured by Raphael’s crying one. It wasn’t until his tears had stopped and he had been able to calm himself down, that he tried to talk.“I thought ya were gonna leave us.” He mumbled it against my neck and I couldn’t help but shiver. It was an odd feeling, but I had to force the thought away and focus on what my brother was saying.“Mike an Don said ya weren’t pickin up yer cell, an I got worried.” His grip slowly eased up a little as he admitted it and I couldn’t help but feel guilty. It wasn’t like me to not pick up my phone, I’d even pick it up if I was sleeping, not to mention the fact that I had scared all my brothers with something so simple as that, but…  even if the thought had crossed my mind, I already knew I’d never follow through with staying here.  “I wasn’t going to leave Raph, just needed a little time for myself.” On instinct, I pushed my head backwards so I could press the side of my face against his as a little sign of comfort. “I hadn’t even heard my cell go off.” Which had been the truth, outside of the very last time it had gone off with me just staring at it like an idiot. I should have picked it up, like I was supposed to. Though Raph had already been on his way here so that wouldn’t work for him, but Don and Mike would’ve been glad to hear from me.“You can’t leave us Leo, we need you.” His arms had left its lock around my waist and instead tightened themselves around my shoulders, they were shaking and I couldn’t help but notice one of his hands resting flat against my chest, right above my heart. Was he… looking for a heartbeat? We can’t hear it through our plastron, but still.“I wasn’t. Was already on my way back to the battle shell when you jumped me.” I moved one of my now freed hands to cover his above my heart, while I tried to find his cheek with the other. Placing the palm flat against the smooth surface and softly moving my thumb across the skin under his eye in a soothing motion. He seemed to freeze up for a moment, before he seemed to calm down and relax slightly. He spread the fingers of the hand on my chest enough for my fingers to fall in between his before capturing them in a lose grip. It seemed to help him ease up, maybe I am doing this comporting thing right? How is it that I’ve never felt the need to comfort any of my other brothers like this? I mean what am I doing?! I’ve never done anything like this! Don and mike are the ones that don’t mind comforting others physically, I don’t, I talk to try and lift their spirits not give them a hug! Oh please don’t tell me it’s because I like him! “Good! Cuz I swear I woulda dragged yer sorry ass back home by force!” We both laughed at that and I could feel the tension in the air ease up a little and he leaned his head slightly against mine. Okay... Maybe it’s just a fluke? I mean Raph started this by immobilising me. We could just be following our instincts, it doesn’t mean there is something between us. He just needs reassurance and seeing as I am the one that caused this state of mind it is only naturally that it is me to help him get out of it. I can’t say I didn’t need it either… I did think he hadn’t cared after all… maybe I needed this as much as he did, it does explain why I leaned into him first…Neither one of us moved for a while after that, content to stay right here for a while to enjoy each other’s comfort, but the nagging feeling at the back of my mind demanded answers again. Ones I desperately needed. Why did he come all the way here? And how did he find me?!“How did you find me?” Oh… I said that one out loud… And I had gotten a laugh from him, as if I should have known that… Well at least I got him to laugh again…“Battle shell has a tracker remember? An so does yer cell.” I blinked… they did? No one told me that…“I… Don’t think anyone mentioned that before…” He had stopped laughing as I said it, guess he really thought I knew about it.“‘M sorry, Leo.” The apology actually shocked me, but I had a feeling he wasn’t saying it because of the trackers. So what was it for then? “For what?” He hesitated as he tried to find the right words and I had no problem giving him all the time he needed. I just hoped he would be able to talk to me about what’s going on with him, what he’s been thinking.“Everything… We shoulda seen this comin fearless, but we didn’t! Ya shoulda complained earlier, we never even knew we’ve been pushin ya this far.” I let out a small chuckle. As if I’d ever complain, that’s not like me. I’d rather just endure it than bother anyone else with my problems, but they all knew that and I guess that makes it harder to understand me… I might have to try and open up more, let them know what’s bothering me. Or at least talk to one of them… If only it was that easy. Years of practise and habit is not forgotten easy.“That’s okay, we all know I don’t know how to complain.” We laughed again and I let myself find comfort in the heat coming off him even though the rain had worked hard to cool the both of us off. My body was shaking slightly from Raph’s laughter and I couldn’t be happier. I felt safe here within his arms.“Wish ya did though.” I nodded against his head in agreement and a content silence settled over us once more. I vaguely felt his hand on my shoulder move its thumb back and forth in the same rhythm mine was still moving against his cheek, helping me further relax into my brother’s grip.“When did you leave the lair?” It had been a question that I had been curious about. I had been out for 8 hours and it had taken me a little over 7 hours to even get here, so I wondered if he had followed me right away, but that would also mean he didn’t trust me going out by myself. Though Mike and Don did call me a lot, they told him, which had resulted in Raph coming after me.“Two hours after ya left.”  Two hours?! That means he raced here in 6 hours! Have I been driving that slowly or-.“You took your bike didn’t you?” I could literally feel his grin against my shoulder as well as the way he puffed his chest in pride against my shell. The other vehicles can’t go that fast! It’s a wonder he didn’t hit something on his way here! Damn, stupid irresponsible speed devil!!“Yep” I tried to hit him against his shins with my feet, but in my position it was rather hard to really hit him and it ended up only making him laugh more. Guess that was sort of a good thing, so I let it pass.It had taken me a few minutes to think of what I really needed to ask him and that gave him enough time to calm his laughter once more. And I waited until he had completely stopped laughing once I knew what I wanted to asked before I dared to voice it. I couldn’t have him start laughing again, I needed a serious answer. “Why?” The question had so many meanings, all of which I hoped he could understand and answer at the same time.“Cuz I saw tha tracker wasn’t in tha city anymore. Thought ya were seriously leavin an I had ta find ya before I’d lose ya, so I took ma bike an went after ya. Went a little faster than I was supposed ta though.” I blinked, well that was surely honest. He really was afraid I would leave them…“I’m sorry.” It was sincere, but he dismissed it as he shook his head against my neck.Wait… He’s been on his bike for 6 hours! What if someone saw him!“No one saw you did they?” He shook his head against my shoulder again before answering my question.“No, it was still dark an I was outta tha city in no time. Kept to tha back roads too.” Thank god! That saves me a heart attack!But still, why go through all the trouble to come after me? I would have come home eventually…“I just… Still… don’t understand why…” His brow fell into a frown against my shoulder, before he lifted his head a little to try and look at my face. Not that he could really see me form that angle…“Huh?” “Why go through all this trouble? I would never leave you all behind, that’s not how I am. You could have waited till I-” The hand on my chest pulled my hand up with his and slammed the both of them against my mouth, silencing me mid-sentence. “No! Not after-” He signed deeply, fidgeting behind me, looking for the right words.  “After that fiasco in tha dojo three months ago, we’d all been so scared ya would give up on us. We really did our best ta fix it, but we were still afraid ya’d leave after all…” The arm still wrapped around me tightened his grip immensely and he pressed his forehead harshly into my neck, he was trying to say something else, something he needed to get off his chest and I tried to brace myself for whatever it could be… however… “I can’t lose you Leo! I love you!!” …I just never expected it to be that……He loves me? I’m not the only one with these feelings?My heart leaped in my chest and I could feel the both of us freeze up. Raphael probably hadn’t realised what he wanted to say and blurted it out before he could stop it and for once, I was grateful.He held his breath before he jumped into action and pushed me away so he could scramble to his feet. He took a couple large steps backwards, looking at me with wide and terrified eyes, before turning around to try and make a run for it. Thankfully, I managed shoot up from the ground and grab his wrist before he could bolt off towards his bike. “W-What did you just say?” I’m pretty sure his panic blocked out the hopeful tone in my voice, but the words themselves did seem to register and he flinched.“Nothing!” He harshly pulled at the hand in my grip, desperately trying to free himself so he could flee, but I only tightened my grip to make sure he wouldn’t get that chance. His panic seemed to make him forget how easily he could break my grip, which was good, I can’t have him leaving now off all times.“Raph-” I was going to tell him to calm down, but his panicked yell caught me off guard. Is he this afraid of my reaction? It’s as if his mind is telling him I’ll hate him for his feelings, that I would hurt him for having them. Though, I am not one to talk, I’ve had the same fears. “I didn’t mean it I swear! Just ferget I even said it!” Damn it! He is going to give himself a panic attack if he keeps this up. I have to calm him down, And fast! But I have to be careful or I might make it even worse! I harshly pulled against his hand and threw him against the large tree and quickly grabbed the sides of his face so I could press our lips together in a harsh kiss. It was the only way I could think of to show him his feelings are returned, especially now that he isn’t able to really comprehend what I am trying to say.His hands immediately grabbed my elbows before his whole body went rigid in my grip, not being able to comprehend what was happening. Not the reaction I was hoping for, but at least he isn’t trying to run away anymore… now I can figure out my next move.I slowly released his lips as I felt his heartbeat slow down slightly, but he still wasn’t responding. It was like he had locked himself up in his own world. His eyes were forced shut tightly and his bottom lip was slightly trembling. Pressing my forehead to his, staring at his closed eyes as I called out his name, softly telling him to open his eyes, but it didn’t seem like he was hearing me so I pulled one of my hands from his face before lightly hitting his cheek.It seemed to be doing the trick as his eyes slammed open and I immediately trapped them with my own. They were unfocused, but when they finally did manage to focus, I made sure they were on me and I could easily see the confusion and surprised flooding through them. His knees started giving out and I slowly slid the both of us down to the ground, making sure my hands kept his forehead against mine so we wouldn’t break our eye contact. Hoping they were calm enough to help him understand that I was right there and wasn’t going anywhere soon.I let myself fall in between his raised knees and eventually he seemed to wake up enough to understand what was happening, but didn’t break eye contact as his eyes grew a little wider and a blush seemed to form underneath my hands. “L-Leo?” I gave him a small reassuring smile, leaning forward to kiss him lightly. He sat completely still, unsure what I was trying to do and I was fine with that. I had something to tell him and I can’t do that with him running away. “Thank you for tracking me down and coming here, Raphie.” He smiled in relief and l rubbed the sides of his face before leaning back in, leaving no more than an inch between our lips. Grinning before them as I heard his breath hitch. “And thank you for loving me the same way I love you.” With that I was going to press forward again but he pulled his head out of my grip, slamming it against the tree behind him in his haste and I chuckled at his happily surprised expression.“Wait? What?! Y-Ya mean ya feel tha same way?!” I couldn’t give him more than a smirk before he pulled me down to lock our lips once more, but he pulled away quickly with a look akin to anguish. His hands pressed against my plastron, pushing me backwards. “This is outta pity aint it? Ya feel sorry fer nearly leavin us an now yer just tryin ta make up fer it.”I couldn’t help the rough growl that escaped me as I grabbed his wrists and slammed them against the tree above his head, using his temporary shock to lock the both of them in one of my hands before he even realised it happened.“Do you really think I would kiss you just for pity?!” I can’t believe he thinks I would do something like that! Even if I did pity him, I wouldn’t kiss him just to make him feel better! That would have been so dishonourable! Not to mention just plain awful. “I really was going home just now, Raphael! I have nothing to feel sorry for and I’ve been wanting to do this for two months now.”“Two Months?! I’ve been wantin ya ta kiss me fer a year!” My eyes widened, a year? We have been fighting an bickering with each other for years now, how is that even possible?! I didn’t even know of my feelings until we stopped fighting! “A year?! Are you kidding me?! How have you been wanting this for a year?! We have done nothing but fight since I became leader and now you are telling me you’ve loved me for a year?!”Raph turned his head to the side and stubbornly refused to look back after I had called his name, so I forcefully grabbed his chin to turn his face back me. If he has been in love with me for a year then he has been keeping me in the dark about something and I want to know what, right now!“Why didn’t you tell me?!” His eyes were darting everywhere but where I needed them and he absently tugged against my hands. He was fidgeting in my hold, but I could feel his resolves cracking under my gaze.“Because I couldn’t! I didn’t think ya would feel tha same and I wanted ta keep whatever we did have instead a losin ya all the way! So I tried ta act tha same I’ve always had an went out with casey ta blow off steam or drink tha whole night, I told em about it once an he thought I might help! It kinda did… but then I would get home only fer ya ta be the first thing I see when I come in. I woulda asked Don or Mike, but ya were the only one that could help me vent enough so I could sleep! They are too easy to take down, it wouldn’t have helped.”Now that he mentioned it… He has been acting a little different for a while now, hardly noticeable, but it did change. He’s been throwing glances towards me at training and patrol, other times too I think. The fights weren’t as bad as they used to be, just different and for other reasons as I was used to…Back to the task at hand…“You took advice from Casey? He doesn’t even know how to keep April happy!” Which was true, he managed to piss April off on a daily basis, always doing something to earn him a slap to the head.“I know… I was desperate…” Can’t argue there! I mean even Mike would have given better advice than Casey would! No, that’s mean, Mike is a lot smarter than we give him credit for.“You should have just come clean right away or at least ease up around me, it felt like you were mad at me for everything I did!” I signed deeply, this whole thing is frustrating me. How was fighting everyday supposed to help you when you’re in love with that person? … Turtle… I wonder what he will do now. He drinks because he needs to forget and he fights me to keep his feelings at bay so… “Are you going to stop acting out and drinking so much now that I do know?”His ember eyes widened again, flickering towards me before moving away again. His thoughts were racing a mile a minute, before a small blush started to form. “I-I dunno… It d-depends…” His eyes glanced at me shyly and his hands twitched in my grip, a silent reminder of how he wasn’t able to use them. “Hmm? On what?” I cupped the side of his face once more lifting his head a little so I could look at his beautiful features and couldn’t help but see his bottom lip trembling ever so slightly. “O-On what h-happens now… I t-think…” I leaned in ever so slightly, blocking his vision even more and I could see he had trouble looking away now.“Oh really? What would you like to happen now?” I couldn’t stop the smirk as his eyes fixed themselves on my lips, a silent answer to my question as well as a plea for me to close the gap between us and claim his lips again.He groaned as I finally gave in and kissed him, he eagerly pressed towards me, lips parting as an invitation. An invitation I eagerly took and opened my own to press my tongue against his, trapping him in a battle for dominance, a battle he had no chance of winning. At least not today.
        Notes:
          OK so I've been thinking about making a third chapter, but i am not entirely sure. i might or i might just leave it at this
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (4)
  Comments
          Lisa_Frank, sormikos, Breathe2Life, Zeuvera, Legendary1Royal, Jingernir, KarateGirl, violet_evenings, Freebird6583, RubyNeko, Dark_Vengeance, Crippler_jericho, LibThomas, Aroma91QueenofDemons, Nour4U, 17oholic, NinaHamato, and KerryAnne
             as well as 
          53 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
