      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chuck's side of things
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Not Rated
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Categories:
               F/MM/MMulti
              Fandom:
               Pacific Rim (2013)
              Relationships:
               Newton Geiszler/Hermann Gottliebbackground Raleigh Becket/Chuck Hansenbackground Yancy Becket/Mako Mori?/?
              Characters:
               Newton GeiszlerHermann GottliebVanessa GottliebNewton's motherRaleigh BecketChuck HansenYancy BecketMako MoriTendo Choi
              Additional Tags:
               AUFluffAngst
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        ← Previous Work Part 3 of the Cuddle Puddle 'Verse series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2013-10-07Completed:2013-10-07Words:9934Chapters:2/2Comments:50Kudos:75Bookmarks:6Hits:2840
      Blood's Thicker Than Water
      StrikerEurekaTech (purplexeyed)
      Chapter 2: Chuck's side of things
          Summary:
            Just a short little bit about Chuck and why he acted as he did between Newt's attempt to make him feel better and Newt finally spelling out that he's not interested in Raleigh.Angst and fluff ahoy, since I can't fucking write anything else.
    Chapter Text
    Chuck felt sick as the scientist walked away from him.It was obvious the man had been trying to assure him but that rueful smile only made his stomach churn.That was the man Raleigh spent some of his unwind-time with. The man who Raleigh tended to speak of with a grin and amusement. And that was also the man who apparently had a thing for Raleigh.He could see it now.Newt, small and adorable and innocent. And in need of some sort of comfort.Raleigh wouldn't be able to resist; he had a protective streak several kilometers wide. It'd start small, with him fussing over his just-a-friend. Then that just-a-friend would begin to eat up more and more of his time; his feelings would mutate from friendship to something stronger because of all the time he'd spend with the small and adorable and innocent man who needed him.He swallowed.He was tall; he wasn't adorable; he sure as fuck wasn't innocent. And to add to his misery, Raleigh also had a fondness for cute things. Couple that with the protective streak and Chuck guessed the only reason Raleigh had ended up with him was because it took so long for the blond to venture into K-Science, let alone spend a significant amount of time there.-x-x-x-x-In spite of that, he tried to act normal. Act like nothing was wrong. Act like the guy he'd been crushing on since he first turned on the tv and saw that huge grin coupled with amazing blue eyes wasn't going to slowly slip away. After he'd gotten to know the man, his feelings ran deeper and different, but that had been the start. And it'd been going since then.Only now he knew how this would end. With Newt getting dragged into the cuddle puddles, coaxed into movie nights and affectionate kisses, be they Eskimo or with lips. Actually. The scientist probably wouldn't have to be coaxed into that. He seemed to be a normal, non-fucked-up human being. The guy was from Germany, so it was doubtful he had a giant chip on his shoulder or lost family due to kaiju. So he really was Chuck's antithesis. ...well, it'd make Raleigh's life easier if nothing else. He wouldn't have to deal with a caustic, bitter and emotionally stunted idiot who was barely able to return his affection some days.A gentle kiss pressed to his temple drew him from his thoughts."You okay?" There was a tenderness there, in his voice and eyes, that made Chuck mask a wince.It wasn't him who'd be on the receiving end of that look soon."Yeah." He responded but looked away.-x-x-x-x-He made it through another couple of days of pretending things were okay. Then he couldn't take it anymore. After lunch, he ducked Raleigh—not hard, he was distracted—and hid in his room.Chuck knew he was being petty, but...it seemed inevitable. The sudden knock startled him."Chuck?"Fuck, it was Raleigh. Fuck fuck fuck. He was supposed to be after that scientist, not here."Fuck off!" He snarled. It was better this way; it had to be. Anything was better than watching him slowly drift away."Hey, open up!"That fucker. Chuck had swung the door open before he even registered that he'd moved from his bed.-x-x-x-x-He knew after his mumble of "shit" that he stood there, blinking like a fucking moron, while Raleigh gently pushed him into his room. He saw the tiny scientist following Mako to what he assumed would be their lunch before the blond closed the door."Chuck."He couldn't look at him. Fucking hell, he'd messed up.A small sigh escaped Raleigh before he was pulled into a gentle hug. After a few moments, he relaxed and returned it; he turned his head to the side before Raleigh was able to give him an Eskimo kiss, though."Hey."His hand cupped the side of Chuck's face; the Aussie reluctantly turned to meet his eyes.A chaste kiss was pressed to his lips."I love you." Raleigh Becket stated in the same way others said the sky was blue. He froze."Just the way you are." He continued, kissing the Aussie's forehead. "And I don't wish you were shorter or more innocent. I'm pretty sure you already know I find you cute, among other things." His blue eyes darkened for a second. "You like cute, short, innocent things." He found himself mumbling."Yeah, I like them just fine."He looked up to find that tender smile directed at him again; the blond leaned in, but stopped.Chuck closed the gap and gave Raleigh an Eskimo kiss, then looked down, trying to ignore the heat that flooded his cheeks. When he looked up again, Raleigh was beaming."M sorry." He muttered into the other man's shoulder as he tightened the hug.A kiss was pressed to the top of his head. "Apology accepted.""Next time...I'll...I'll talk to you. Before it gets that bad.""And next time I'll pay better attention. I knew something was bothering you, but I couldn't think of what it could be..." The blond trailed off.Chuck kissed him. "We still need to work on communication.""Yeah. Both of us." He sighed again.The Aussie swallowed. "Well, if you're not runnin' off with...""Newt." Raleigh supplied helpfully."...Newt...then what's going on?""He just seems to be having a rough time. And he helped me out—gave me the final push to talk to you about the tech, even.""He did?"That earned him a small smile. "Yeah. He told me that you were happier, since we got together. And reminded me that I didn't have to be perfect.""You don't." Chuck murmured. "You don't have to be. You're...you. An'...""It's fine." Raleigh soothed when he couldn't seem to get the words out.No, it isn't. Chuck thought darkly. But he had an idea that might help, just a little.-x-x-x-x-The look on Raleigh's face when he found out that Chuck was the one who'd dragged Newt to lunch helped, immensely. He might not be ready to say the words just yet, but showing it? That he could do. And if it made him a bit more physically demonstrative towards his boyfriend, in the hopes that touches would do where words failed, well...that was between him and Raleigh....and apparently Mako and Yancy too, to an extent, since all they ever seemed to fucking do was walk in at the wrong time.
  Notes:
  Up next for real this time is the story how Max's name.And why my muse is getting sent to FluffyHappyBunnyLand for all of eternity.This bloody fic did not want to begin.Almost 9k worth of words later, it didn't want to end.Thankfully, it now has. Which means I just have the story of Max's name and a liiiiiittle wrap up for this one. (Which may or may not involve something that causes Yancy to make a dying-cat-noise.)And, of course, obligatory:  Tumblrrrrrr
  Series this work belongs to:
      ← Previous Work Part 3 of the Cuddle Puddle 'Verse series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (2)
  Comments
          Sacha_Hjart, Malachi_the_Fierce, athenethegoddess02, ConspiracyCake101, Phrixos, ren8991, jaybeats, Saeraphyna, Inarex, bladeangel, mudder3300, Nixie_DeAngel, AlicAlrres, holyfandomfeelsbatman, Arel, Apollymi, AgentStardust, witchgirl, moonlightress, DDBB19, Isis1379, Kate_art, LacieDayParade, nazgullover, Ibby, tygercub, Wanderer_Brown_Sheep, fishmouse, Soteira, sylleptic, KJPearl, miints, Madeline_Katsuragi, surgicalstainless, owlpockets, SkysongMA, Emmalyn, coffeewing, JuAnt, LucoLoco, therivanqueen, katefish617, Wyndewalker, britewing, skyearth85, tiasworld93, mizik, jadinacookie, and Ishyko
             as well as 
          26 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
