      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Hide Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Mature
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               13 Reasons Why (TV)
              Relationship:
               Justin Foley/Clay Jensen
              Characters:
               Justin FoleyClay JensenMatt JensenLainie JensenClay Jensen's Aunt &amp; Uncle
              Additional Tags:
               ComfortFluffpossible future smutPost season threebrosnuggleCuddling &amp; SnugglingsleepingFeelings RealizationProtective Clay Jensenvery mild sexual contentPartial NudityKissingFirst KissChristmas FluffChristmas DecorationsChristmas TreeNew AgeModern DruidismAwkward Justin FoleyValentine's Day FluffThoughtful Justin FoleyEaster EggsChocolateInnuendoImplied Sexual Content
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2019-10-14Completed:2020-04-14Words:11667Chapters:11/11Comments:88Kudos:320Bookmarks:33Hits:6315
      Bro Hugs
      Uthizaar
          Summary:
              Clay felt like his life was divided into critical moments, some more important than others: the moment he brought Justin back, the moment he became more than just leverage, the moment he realized he really cared about Justin, the moment things began to feel reciprocated…
  Notes:
    (See the end of the work for notes.)
      Chapter 1
    Chapter Text
    Clay wasn’t sure how it all started, he wasn’t sure what it had developed into, what it was becoming. But that didn’t seem to matter, Justin never asked him to label it and Clay himself wasn’t willing to have that conversation. It just was. Whenever they needed each other, the silent, unspoken agreement was triggered; like a stressful school day or a sudden blast of unwelcome memory. He’d look at Justin, see the million dollar grin that lit up his eyes and then… “You wanna watch some TV?”
It was an innocent question. But then, everything they were doing was innocent. It was only afterwards, lying awake on his back as Justin snored softly in the other bed across the room that Clay questioned whether his own motives were as pure as Justin’s seemed to be. As the night dragged on, Clay threw his mind back to the first time it happened.
“Hey, what are you watching?” Justin leaned on the couch behind him, the faint smell of sweat and deodorant wafting down to Clay.
“Hmm, just some military film.” He replied, unconsciously flaring his nostrils as he breathed in the scent of fresh football practice. “Been ages since I just sat and watched something. No idea if it’s any good, but lots of explosions so far. I’m only about twenty minutes in, if you want to join?”
“Uh, sure.” Justin answered, somewhat unexpectedly. He vaulted the couch and landed next to Clay with a grin. “Training was brutal today and Jess is studying, so why not, right?”
“Cool.” Clay shrugged and resumed the film. As it played out, he became more aware of Justin’s proximity. The way their shoulders were pressed together despite the couch being large enough for three people to sit comfortably, the way Justin seemed to lean into him during the action sequences, the strange tingle he got whenever his bare arm brushed against Justin’s own. 
But as the film wore on and the explosions inexplicably lessened, Clay became aware of Justin leaning his head on his shoulder, his breathing slowing, falling asleep. He didn’t say anything, didn’t push Justin gently off to the side. Clay just left him there, privately enjoying the unexpected human contact. And once the film was over, he quietly turned the TV off and rested back in the couch, content to let Justin wake up in his own time.
Clay had expected that it wouldn’t happen again, that Justin would just shrug it off as being over-tired after practice or exhausted from the previous weeks of suspicion and drama. Neither of them said anything the next day, neither acknowledging it as more than just that; tiredness. And yet Clay secretly enjoyed the contact with Justin, not in some erotic or lewd way, well, not entirely. 
Justin was handsome and Clay was…coming around to the idea that sexuality really was a spectrum. The fact that they were living together, soon to be adopted brothers was a complication he blatantly ignored, focusing rather on the fact that they were close friends, willing to do anything for each other.
But the next occasion he was watching TV, this time a crime serial that was hitting a little too close to home, Justin rolled off his bed where he had been flicking through his English textbook and came over. The same question, the same exchange as last time, the same vault over the back of the couch to sit next to Clay. The same grin that made Clay feel things that weren’t exactly fraternal. 
He didn’t expect Justin to stay so close to him, to remain pushed against him, a reassuring heat and pressure from the contact of his warm pullover against Clay’s bare arms. After the first episode, Clay leaned back and stretched, catching Justin’s eye as he lowered his arms. “What?”
“Nothing.”
“Well, do you want to watch another one?”
“Yep.” Justin smiled at him. He slid lower on the couch than Clay, leaning over to rest his head on Clay’s shoulders as the episode started. They remained silent for the cold open, Justin only speaking as the credits rolled. “I don’t know why you’re watching this, it’s years out of date.”
“I like NCIS,” Clay replied defensively. “Ok, so the first few seasons were sexist, and the crimes never really have a satisfying conclusion, but there’s plenty of episodes.”
“Mmh,” Justin grunted against his shoulder. “I guess, but you’d think a show about the Navy would have a lot of eye candy. There’s barely any.”
“Well, most of the Armed Services are men so…” Clay trailed off as he felt Justin chuckle. “What?”
“Nothing.” Justin closed his eyes and sighed. “Is this ok?”
“Huh?”
“This.” He gestured at them both before looking up at Clay’s face. “Right now?”
“Yeah.” Clay answered after studying him for a long minute. “I like this.”
“Mmh, me too.” Justin smiled and closed his eyes again, this time reaching his arm across Clay’s chest to keep him in a loose hug. They didn’t speak for the rest of the episode, watching in silence until at some point near the end, Justin had fallen asleep against him.
Clay cautiously placed his hand over Justin’s forearm, playing gently with the fabric of his pullover. He tilted his own head towards Justin’s until they were barely touching and then let himself slip away into a pleasant snooze.
The pattern played out over and over, so familiar and reassuring that Clay felt weird whenever he was watching TV alone. It wasn’t jealousy that touched him whenever he saw Justin and Jess together, even if they seemed more like friends than lovers now. The truth about what happened on the pier had changed their dynamic, at least, that was how Clay rationalized it. He didn’t want to consider that there was something else happening, that Justin’s feelings had shifted away from Jess and towards…someone else.
He rolled over onto his side, watching Justin sleep on his stomach, his snores quietened as moonlight speckled across his handsome face. Despite the problems they faced, the unanswered questions, the fears about the future, Clay felt a measure of comfort and security at Justin’s presence, even if he was a few feet further than was preferable.
      Chapter 2
    Chapter Text
    One day, during the meaningless passage of time that characterized the shift from California Fall into Winter, the sun dimming and weather containing trace amounts of the true cold from the east, things changed. It wasn’t abrupt or even surprising, more of a natural evolution from where things had been going before. Clay hadn’t even set out to make it happen, it was just a beautiful confluence of events colliding together on a path that, it seemed, they both wanted.
He had come back from the airport on the other side of Oakland, leaving his parents to their flight. It meant he and Justin had the place to themselves, but that hardly mattered since they had the carriage house anyway. It was a cold day, the wind cutting through Clay’s jacket, although he didn’t take much notice as he left the comfort of his car and let himself into the carriage house.
Justin was sitting on the couch, flicking through the channels. He turned and smiled at Clay as soon as he entered. “Hey, did they get off ok?”
“Yeah, they won’t be back until Monday night.” Clay walked over to him, leaning down on the back of the sofa the same way that Justin always did. “You alright? What’s with the sweater?”
“I can’t get warm,” Justin shivered and rubbed his hands together. “Probably a side-effect of…you know.”
“Yeah, yeah, I know.” Clay replied softly as Justin avoided his eyes. “You’ve been doing well these past few weeks, did you have a, err, a-”
“No, no, I’m just cold.” Justin cut across him, this time looking directly at Clay. “You believe me, right?”
“Of course.” Clay nodded. There was something about Justin’s eyes, the way his brows pulled together, the gentle part of his lips, the abject sorrow that seemed to flow out from his gaze that always got to Clay. It was the type of expression that made him believe Justin even at times against his instincts, the type of expression that made him want to...protect him, make the past disappear. But for all that his heart hurt at Justin’s pain; it always vanished the moment Justin smiled at him. Clay wetted his lips and glanced at the TV. “So, what are you watching?”
“Nothing good.” Justin shrugged. “I don’t feel right.”
“Your feet are cold?”
“Everything is.”
“Hmm, ok, why don’t you use my laptop?” Clay suggested, explaining after Justin frowned. “You can watch it in bed; that should keep you warmer than staying out here.”
“Uh, yeah.” Justin stood up and tucked his hands into his pockets, holding Clay’s gaze. “You wanna watch with me? I was thinking of some sort of movie, you can join me.”
“Sure.” Clay answered carefully, not thinking too far ahead of himself. “Why don’t you pick something out; I’ve a big library on my hard drive. And I’ll make you a drink to warm you up.”
“Alcoholic?”
“No, hot chocolate.” Clay grinned at his expression. “It’ll make you feel better, trust me; the heat will keep you warm, the chocolate and marshmallows are sweet, and the milk will settle your stomach if you’re feeling nauseous too.”
“How did you know?” Justin smiled weakly. “I haven’t thrown up or anything, but don’t feel great there either.”
“Yeah, I gotchu.” Clay reached out and touched Justin’s shoulder, his fingers lingering against the thick synthetic wool. “Back in a minute.”
“Lord of the Rings, huh?” Clay asked as he put the tray down on the long chest of drawers that ran along the back wall between their beds. Justin had opted to set up in Clay’s bed, perhaps because the socket was closer for the laptop cable, perhaps for some other reason. “That’s like a nine hour movie marathon, bro.”
“Pretty sure it’s closer to eleven hours with all the added scenes in the expanded films.” Justin replied, already under the duvet, positioning himself closer to the wall, leaving the other half of the single bed for Clay. “Plus it’s like five in the afternoon and I don’t have any plans.”
“I guess that’s a good excuse.” Clay smirked and handed him a large cup of hot chocolate, the marshmallows at the top melting into a gooey, delicious mess. “Here, put that in the cubbyhole so you don’t spill it. Oh, and I got these when I was driving back from the airport, I know they’re your favorite.” He offered Justin a plate containing large, thick-cut cookies, chunks of milk chocolate visible throughout. 
“Woah, thanks!”
“I had to get gas.” Clay muttered as though he hadn’t intentionally diverted off the highway to pick them up. “You comfortable in there?”
“Yeah, beginning to warm up.” Justin nodded as Clay slipped his shoes off. “I’m cold but you’re not; you can take off your jacket if you want.”
“Hmm, don’t wanna melt, true enough.” Clay smiled and put his jacket over the end of Justin’s bed. He shook out his t-shirt and flipped the edge of the duvet back before getting inside. The bedsprings creaked and Clay moved over until he was closer to Justin, both of them sharing his stack of pillows. “Good?”
“Yeah.”
It was natural for them to fall into this pattern by now, so Clay wasn’t surprised when Justin scooted down more in the bed and shifted closer to him, resting his head on Clay’s chest after a pause of a few seconds. He adjusted the angle of the screen so that Justin could still see and put his right arm around Justin’s shoulders and back, his thumb and fingers stroking casually against him. “Can you see it?”
“Mmmh, yeah.” Justin murmured, turning more fully on his stomach. He was closer than usual to Clay now, slipping one of his legs in-between his own, his face touching against the crook of Clay’s neck. “Hmm.”
“Pretty sure you can’t see it.” Clay whispered, glancing down at him to see Justin arch his brows silently. “But I guess that doesn’t matter.”
“No.” Justin replied softly, his lips gently brushing along Clay’s Adam’s Apple in a way that sent shivers of something down his spine. “I can still hear it.”
“Mmh.” Clay slowly reclined more against his pillows until he was lying at an angle rather than sitting, the laptop off to one side on its cooling plate, the Fellowship delving into the Mines of Moria. Justin had moved with him, still pressing against him, his arms wrapping more easily around Clay’s torso as he angled his own body closer. Clay took a careful breath and raised his left hand and placing it on Justin’s hip, silently encouraging him to lie more fully against him. “Better?”
“Perfect.” Justin smiled at him again, unaware of the chaotic tumult that his expression caused in Clay’s chest. “Thanks, bro, I feel a lot warmer now.”
“Heh, me too.” Clay managed as Justin settled back down. He could feel the tickle of Justin’s breath on his skin and Clay swallowed thickly before he pulled his hand away from Justin’s hip and instead placed it on the back of his head. Clay felt a triumphant rush when Justin murmured contently at his touch and he began to stroke his hands through Justin’s wavy black hair.
Clay could feel his eyes closing even as Justin settled against him, his even breathing indicating that he had already nodded off. There was a pleasant heat between them at the points where they touched, and Justin’s body was a reassuring weight on top of him as Clay drifted off to sleep.
      Chapter 3
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    It was something he had yet to get used to: sleeping in a bed with another person. For all his life, Clay had slept alone, unused to sudden shifts in the mattress or being disturbed from his dreams by an errant elbow. And yet, for all the strangeness, there was nothing better than the sensation of waking up with Justin pressing into him, arms wrapped loosely around his torso, Justin’s face resting on his chest, his breath hot against Clay’s skin.
It was perfect though, the most perfect feeling in the world to be held, to hold Justin, to just exist in that moment. Sometimes he drifted back to sleep, other times he simply experienced it and mentally catalogued each second until Justin rolled over or moved away, yet other times, Clay found his thoughts pulled out of the warm comfort of their embrace and listing instead into reality and all that existed outside of his bed.
That first time, watching films, became normality, an almost nightly ritual when each knew they would be undisturbed. While Justin was frequently cold or feeling unwell, there were other times when there was nothing wrong, well, not physically. He had become used to the feeling of Justin’s weight on top of him, of the welcome contact and slow echo of his heartbeat above his own. On those occasions when Justin just wanted to be near him; whether under the sheets or on the couch, Clay always agreed readily, although he had never given voice to his own desires. 
It seemed like they were going in the direction that he longed for, although only within the safety of the carriage house. Their interactions outside, in school, on the way home, among friends; it was all…platonic. There had been nothing platonic about Clay’s fantasies in the shower the past few weeks, and while he wished Justin would give some indication that there were mutual feelings, Clay was still afraid that voicing his desires would rob him of the comfort he already had gained.
There had been a change the night before though; a subtle difference in the balance between them that Clay had easily assented to when Justin offered. The same as before; a film, an early night, Clay’s bed, Justin lying on top of him, facing the bright screen of the laptop. The room was warmer than usual, both having spent the Saturday inside, catching up on assignments. Faintly stuffy, but bearable, at least before getting under the duvet.
“You alright?” Clay murmured as Justin shifted against him. 
“Too hot.” Justin replied, rolling his head back to look up at Clay. “Gonna take my sweats off.”
“Yeah, fine, I’m already in my boxers anyway.”
“I know.” There was a change in his voice with those words, but Clay wasn’t sure what it meant. Justin smirked at him and rolled off to one side, Clay’s arm pinned under his back. 
After a struggle and partially kicking off the duvet, Clay could feel the soft fabric of Justin’s sweat pants with his feet. He felt a spark of fire erupt in his stomach when Justin rolled back on top of him, resuming his previous position. Although Clay had been vaguely aware of the shapely bulge that pressed against his thigh before now, without the sweat pants to obscure it, he was suddenly acutely conscious of the semi-hardness that tented out the soft cotton of Justin’s trunks. Justin shifted against him, dragging his bulge up and down Clay’s underwear covered hip and then along his bare thigh. He could feel his own hardness springing to attention and inched his pelvis away from Justin enough that his arousal wouldn’t be obvious. 
Justin didn’t seem to notice, although Clay was constantly aware of his hardon; the stress and desire making his heart beat faster, his t-shirt sticking to his skin uncomfortably. “Hmm.”
“You ok?” Justin asked him, echoing the earlier question. “You’re sweating.”
“Yeah, uh, I can-”
“I’ll move.”
“No!” Clay blurted out, cheeks flushing when Justin grinned at him, the special smile that drop-kicked his stomach into orbit. “I’ll, um, I can take my shirt off, if you’re ok with that?”
“It’s a good idea.” Justin nodded. Instead of rolling off him as usual, this time Justin cast his leg across Clay’s waist and sat up, straddling him. 
“Uh…” Any protest died on Clay’s lips as he watched Justin slowly pull off his t-shirt; the smooth, defined abs of his lower stomach coming into view. Clay’s eyes followed the lean torso upwards to the slight musculature of his pecs and then finally to the sweeping tattoo that covered Justin’s collarbones. The t-shirt was tossed to one side and it took Clay a moment to realize that the only thing Justin was wearing were his trunks and a devilish smile. “Um, wow.”
“C’mon, take it off.” Justin whispered to him, gesturing for Clay to sit up enough to pull his t-shirt over his head, thrown aside to join Justin’s own. “Mmh.”
The air was cool enough to dry the sweat on his back and torso, but Clay felt himself flushing again, keenly aware that the other guy had to feel his hardon with the way the Justin was still straddling his waist. Justin smiled again, that special little grin that was Clay’s undoing. 
The laptop was placed on the floor, the movie playing on unheeded. Instead, Justin pushed Clay gently back onto the pillows, before sliding down himself, lying back on top of Clay. Neither spoke, not even as their crotches brushed, hardons struggling against the other, occasional grunts and moans hinting at something more than just comfort being exchanged. Clay wrapped his arms around Justin and held him loosely, his hands confident on bare skin while Justin rested his head half on the pillow, half on Clay’s shoulder, the touch of his lips on Clay’s neck could have been a kiss or an accident. 
Sleep came like slipping into a hot bath; smooth and unrushed. Although dreams and night motions pulled him in and out of consciousness throughout the night, Clay was unaware of anything save Justin’s reassuring weight on top of him, of his smooth skin under his fingers, of Justin’s heady mix of cologne and sweat in every breath.
Pale rays of light came too soon, patterning across his face through the blinds. But contentment sat in his stomach as Clay savoured the gentle breathing from Justin, the glorious warmth that held them together, becoming slowly aware of his morning wood resting ever so perfectly against equal hardness. 
“Mmh,” Justin moaned sleepily at him. “Morning.”
“Good morning.” Clay muttered back. Even in drowsiness, Justin’s mouth was pulled into a puckish grin, and Clay felt an overpowering surge of confidence. He arched up abruptly, pressing his lips against Justin’s, the kiss chaste even if it was full of desire. It lasted a brief moment, Justin’s eyes fluttering open in surprise. Clay pulled back, fear overruling lust when Justin’s brows pulled together. “Sorry, I-”
“Don’t be.” Justin replied softly, returning the kiss. “Glad you finally took a chance.”
        Notes:
          There will likely be other chapters for this story, although I’m about to start another story for my main fandom so it’ll probably be early 2020 when I update this again. Thanks for checking this story out and I hope you enjoyed reading it!
      Chapter 4
          Summary:
            This is a short update for this story, taking Clay and Justin into the Christmas spirit.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Thanksgiving had been difficult; when the truth came tumbling out about Justin’s troubles, and although they had been mostly dealt with, Clay still felt a gnawing anguish inside that never seemed to fade away. Not even when he was with Justin in their special, intimate way. And things had become serious between them, not serious in some macabre reflection of their outside lives, but an importance to each other that translated into a deep, abiding fondness that just seeped through the air between them. Others had begun to notice it, outside the safety of the coach house, beyond their shared realm of peace and tranquility. It made Clay nervous and Justin…it was difficult to get a read on how Justin felt about their public selves. Perhaps he just wanted things to stay as they were; friends, soon to be brothers, accomplices in the lies-the other lies. Sometimes Clay wanted to throw all of that to the wind and take Justin’s hand in the hallway and damn the consequences. Sometimes it looked as though Justin wanted him to do that too...  Winter Break was a welcome relief from the pressures of school and friends, Christmas offering a collection of family traditions, each new to Justin. Clay liked seeing the happiness in his eyes, the eager excitement in throwing himself so completely into the Jensen holiday rituals. Putting up the tree had been a strange experience; moments of surprising confusion as Justin didn’t understand about having to water a living tree, other moments of bitter heartache as Justin’s cheeks became wet on being invited to hang a decoration, shared satisfaction at the end of the evening when the tree was adorned and the house cheered to sparkling lights and quirky decorations from his parents’ travels in their younger days.They had a smaller tree for the coach house; about a foot in height; a twirl of multi-colored lights strung through its prickly branches and a few baubles hung up to catch the light and reflect it across the main room. Justin had kissed him when they were done; a press of his lips on Clay’s smooth cheek at first and then, after he turned his head, their lips brushed together. An electric spark of fire ignited between them, passion and desire that culminated in a locked door, closed blinds, and messed-up bed sheets, their clothes tossed on the floor.Later, as Clay snuggled up against Justin’s naked back, their hands loosely clasped together around his stomach; he could hear the even rhythm of Justin’s heartbeat, smell the intoxicating mingled scent of sweat and aftershave that Justin always wore, heard his whispered gratitude at more than just their forty minutes of unity. Out of all the things that had happened this year, Clay was determined that Justin would remember this Christmas best of all, that it would be a bright, shining beacon to drown out all the horrible things that had forced themselves into their lives. They would feast and laugh and sleep, Justin would get to meet Clay’s eccentric druidic aunt and pottery spinning uncle from the Mid-West, they’d share gifts and food and each other, and nothing would shatter the perfect Christmas bauble Clay was determined to construct around them.
        Notes:
          More to come over the weekend. I’ll do about three or four chapters for this update. I have considered doing smut for these two, but I don’t think it’ll fit this story, so there may be a companion piece that has explicit sexual content for Clustin if there’s any interest, of course. Regardless, thanks for reading!
      Chapter 5
        Notes:
          The style of this chapter will be a little different; there’ll be a lot more dialogue, and it’s from Justin’s POV.
    Chapter Text
    It was Christmas Eve by the time Clay’s aunt and uncle arrived; his father having gone to pick up the relatives. Justin couldn’t stay still; standing near the front bay window, then pacing around in a circle next to the empty fireplace, idly reaching out to touch the edges of the stockings hung up the day before, other times sitting down next to Clay almost too close, their shoulders and hips touching. But every time Clay glanced over at his Mom, busy swiping at something on her tablet, she didn’t seem to notice. Clay gave Justin’s hand a reassuring squeeze and gestured with his head for them to go into the kitchen.
“What’s wrong?”
“Nothing.” Justin muttered, looking away from him.
Clay pressed his lips together and took Justin’s hand in his own again. He tightened his grip as Justin instinctively tried to pull away and instead looked at him. “You can tell me anything, remember?”
“Yeah, it’s…they’re your relatives, I just feel…out of place.” Justin mumbled, finally looking at Clay. “Like I’m just your friend or something, like a…visitor.”
“You’re so much more than that.” Clay replied, maintaining his gaze with Justin before he smirked and shrugged. “And to them, to everyone soon, you’re my brother, so don’t worry. Besides, my aunt and uncle are cool; they’re New Age, hippy-dippy, you’ll be fine.”
“Uh huh.” Justin frowned, but he seemed to have relaxed. There was reluctance as he pulled his hand away from Clay’s on hearing the car returning to the driveway. “Um, you never told me their names, by the way.”
“Yeah…I know, try to stay serious when the introductions are going.” Clay gave Justin a smirk and hugged him briefly from behind as Justin turned towards the doorway, voices and the thump of suitcases coming from the hallway. He withdrew his arms in time as his Mom poked her head around the door and gestured for them to follow. “Yeah, we’re coming.”
Justin followed Clay, staying behind him as the visitors exchanged greetings and hugs with Clay and his Mom. He chewed his lower lip and stuck his hands in his hoodie pockets-originally belonging to Clay-watching the man and woman enter the living room. They were slightly older than Clay’s parents; the man wearing a large, bright green woollen sweater with embroidered black and silver reindeer under an orange full moon, his head of greying thick hair was barely tamed, while beneath it, he wore a massive thick beard that looked like something out of the Russian Revolution. His wife, Clay’s Aunt, was dressed quite the opposite in a long, flowing silver dress with various trailing tails of different colored cloth and wavy gauze that made Justin think of a dandelion in the wind. She had a bright, open expression with sparkling green eyes and a ready smile.
He felt Clay nudge him, and Justin inched forward, extending his hand. “Hi, I’m, uh, Justin.”
“Mmh, Justin.” Clay’s Aunt nodded sagely as her husband shook his offered hand. “Coming from the Latin Justinus or Justus. You are fair, just, righteous even! It is a honor to meet you."
“Uh.”
“She writes those baby name entries for websites, you know, if you don’t know what to call your kid.” Clay explained as Justin took his hand back, whispering to him, “She’s never forgiven my Mom and Dad for naming me Clay!”
“That’s only the day job.” She waved his words away airily. “I’m a soul energy inspirationalist. That is my true calling.”
“Oh, err, cool.” Justin wet his lips nervous. “I didn’t catch your name, um.”
“I…am Skychild Fairtree.” She pronounced with a flourish as Clay’s Mom rolled her eyes from the doorway. “It is my druid name: Earth Mother chose it for me during the Spring Equinox in ’93.”
“Oh, um, that’s,” Justin searched for the appropriate response as Clay’s face stayed perfectly neutral. “That is an interesting name. And, err, your husband?”
“Frank.”
“Uh huh. Oh-ok.” Justin nodded again.
“You have a very strong energy about you, Justin.” Skychild said, moving towards him, causing Justin to back nervously into Clay. “Both of you do; that shared space you occupy has strengthened your auras considerably.”
“Err, yeah, I like Clay, err, I like living with Clay.” Justin stammered as Matt took the Fairtrees’ luggage upstairs and Lainie gestured for Frank to come into the kitchen. “Uh.”
“So, um, how was the flight?” Clay cut in before Justin got even more flustered. 
Justin mouthed his thanks as Skychild sat down on the couch and started to recount the story of their trip; from the commune’s bus that brought them to the airport, to the TSA agents who took offense when she tried to bless the security line with calming lavender, to the screaming babies in the row ahead who just didn’t seem to enjoy her melodic re-enactment of whale mating songs. 
By the time Frank and Lainie returned with tea and coffee and cookies, Justin had managed to keep his expression fixed in a rictus of polite interest, while Clay was much more animated, somehow. They sat side by side on the small sofa, perhaps a little too close together from the impish winks Skychild was giving him each time he looked her way. However, her attention was diverted when Clay’s father brought up the possibility of them going to Midnight Mass and in the ensuing debate over whether the Earth energies could be properly venerated in a cold metal and stone box instead of in the equally cold, and also windy, forest clearing before an ancient oak tree, Justin and Clay’s proximity was forgotten. Justin followed the debate with puzzled interest as Clay just smirked and over-indulged in the Christmas cookies they had baked and decorated together the day before. 
Finally, after much back and forth, it was agreed that Matt and Lainie would go to Midnight Mass as they usually did on Christmas Eve and Skychild and Frank would go to the local park to celebrate a late Winter Solstice by dancing with vim, vigor, and occasional nudity around whatever oak tree they found there. Clay quickly declined both offers and made a grand show of how tired and stuffed he was. Justin shook his head when Skychild asked if he wanted to lend his strong masculine aura to their spiritual dance. 
“No, I’m, I’m good. I’m gonna go with, uh…” Justin trailed off and looked helplessly at Clay.
“C’mon.” Clay grinned and stood up with Justin, both of them leaving the room. They made their way out to the coach house, stopping only to grab their stockings from the mantlepiece and for Clay to swipe another stack of the sugar cookies. He grinned at Justin as they finally closed the door on their sacred space and were alone in quiet sanctity. “You survived, right?”
“Just about.”
“Haha, you were fine, perfect even. Well,” Clay grinned lazily at him as he went to tie the end of their stockings to his bed. “You’re always perfect.”
Justin didn’t reply other than giving him a puzzled smirk and instead followed Clay over to the bed, collapsing on top of it. He flicked his gaze back to Clay, “You coming?”
“Hmm, we’re going to watch a film or something, right?”
“Later,” Justin grinned suddenly as Clay nodded and pulled off his sweater, a strip of pale flesh coming into view across his clenching and twisting abs. “I could really do with recharging my masculine aura right now!”
“Yeah, I guess I could help with that.” Clay crawled onto the bed next to him, lying comfortably on the pillow as Justin rolled over and hugged him, one leg slipping in-between Clay’s thighs, hooking them together. Justin rested his head on Clay’s chest and sighed contentedly when Clay held him loosely, one hand on his back, the fingers of his other hand slipping between Justin’s own fingers so they were clasped. “Ok?”
“Perfect.” Justin whispered into the fabric of Clay’s t-shirt, his eyes closed. “You know I could stay like this forever.”
      Chapter 6
        Notes:
          Sorry for not updating this story sooner, I've been very sick the past few days. The last (for now) chapter will be out tomorrow or Friday.
    Chapter Text
    Christmas morning washed over them in a haze of warmth and duvet wrapped comfort, Clay waking up to find that they had shifted positions during the night. He was lying on top of Justin, held in his embrace, the beating of Justin’s heart just under his cheek. Clay didn’t move for a few minutes; savoring their proximity, straining his ears to try and pick up on any sounds from outside the coach house, becoming subtly aware of the pleasurable press of Justin’s morning hardness against his own, dual layers of cotton trunks separating them. He smiled to himself and closed his eyes, drifting off into another light sleep.A cheerful knocking on the locked door of the couch house roused him a second time, Justin waking too, and Clay shouted hoarsely that they’d be out in a few minutes. His Mom acknowledged him and said that they were waiting in the living room to open the presents under the tree, but for him and Justin to exchange stockings first. Clay huffed to himself until he heard the footsteps fade away and then he looked up at Justin. “Morning.”“Hey.” Justin grunted, his hair messed up from sleep, his expression vulnerable after the unexpected wake-up call. “Glad you locked the door last night.”“Could have been worse.” Clay smirked and pulled himself up until his face was level with Justin’s own. His placed one hand on the mattress to balance himself as his other hand was drawn sensually along Justin’s lap and up over the edge of his waistband. Clay let his fingers slip under Justin’s t-shirt and felt his pulse quicken as his touch caused Justin to moan softly and clench his ab muscles. He moved closer to Justin and kissed him once, whispering, “We could have been doing this…” A second round of knocking-this time from Clay’s Dad- twenty minutes later got them out of bed and stumbling around the studio in a disorganized daze. Clay finally managed to find his shirt from the night before while Justin sat on the edge of his bed, dressed only in sweatpants, holding his bright red and patterned green stocking in his lap, staring down at it. The fabric was bulging with various different shapes and there was colorfully wrapped paper sticking out the top of the stocking. Clay glanced over at him, his breath catching as he took in Justin’s handsome form. He blinked and shook his head, gesturing towards the door. “I think they’ll both come next time if we don’t get a move on.”“Yeah, I just…I’ve never…” Justin choked, his lips pressing tight together as tears welled up in his eyes. “I’ve never thought someone would…You did all this for me?” He held up the stocking and looked at Clay, his lips parted in that crushingly vulnerable way of his.“Of course.” Clay replied, quickly sitting down next to Justin, one arm automatically wrapping around him while the other slipped into Justin’s own, clasping his fingers. “I wanted you to know how much you mean to me, and it’s just some small stuff, Justin, it’s not expensive or anything.”“It’s the thought that counts.” Justin managed before he burst into tears and buried his face in Clay’s shoulder. Clay held him tighter, turning into him so that both his arms were circling around him protectively as the emotional torrent tore through Justin. He could feel his t-shirt getting damp, but Clay didn’t care, lowering his head so his lips touched against Justin’s neck, his hands moving in slow, soothing motions against his back.“It’s ok, it’s gonna be ok. I’m here for you.” Clay whispered as Justin’s sobs began to fade away and his tight grip on Clay’s shoulder began to loosen. “I’m never gonna leave you.”“Sorry.” Justin muttered, keeping his head bowed and his eyes squeezed shut. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to-”“You don’t have to apologize, c’mon, let’s get cleaned up and go inside, ok?”“Mmh.” Justin let Clay lead him into the small bathroom off to the side of the communal area and he started running the water. Clay was still behind him as Justin washed his face, resting his chin on Justin’s shoulder, Clay’s hands clasped loosely around his waist, a secure anchor among the storm of emotion. Justin shut off the tap and looked at their reflection, steel returning to his gaze. “Ok, I’m ready.” Clay’s parents, aunt, and uncle were waiting for them when they came in, patently sitting on the couches surrounding the Christmas Tree. Skychild looked at Justin, her expression uncomfortably piercing, and he leaned more towards Clay than he normally would have done in public, but then she smiled and patted the empty space on the couch next to her. Justin sat down as Clay hugged his parents and then perched on the arm of the couch beside Justin. Pleasant chatter was exchanged over steaming cups of coffee and fresh pastries as the adults related their separate celebrations of the night before; Justin stayed quiet and listened politely, feeling Clay’s leg pressing reassuringly against his arm. The gift exchange was uncomfortable for Justin, if only because he was unused to people actually caring enough to get him something in return. Well, other than his friends, of course, but that was different. Clay’s family actually felt like family, like what a family should feel like; they fought and had disagreements, sometimes powerful ones, but at the end of it all, they stayed together and even with high emotions, the only things that got hurt were feelings. Clay’s Dad seemed happy with the book Justin got him, and Clay’s Mom looked at him with a beaming smile when he explained that he had made the journal he gifted her in school with Jessica’s help. It had been difficult to decide what to get Clay, how to express his gratitude for being more than just…friends. Clay didn’t wear jewelry, he wore monotone grays and browns, he didn’t play sports, he was perfectly lean and toned, but he didn’t work out, he was kind of techy, but not enough that Justin could buy him something, he didn’t have a sweet tooth, and getting Clay a voucher for the coffee place Justin worked in seemed pretty weak. “It’s a robot.” Clay muttered, glancing at him, a smile playing about his lips.“A transformer; it goes from a pretty generic robot into a pretty badass hero.” Justin explained, looking only at Clay, feeling his cheeks heat and his stomach twisting uneasily.“Cool, thanks, Justin, I love it.” Clay grinned and leaned down from the arm of the couch to give him an awkward, one armed hug. “I know the perfect place to put this. I’m just glad he’s going to have a companion.”“Huh?”“You better open yours next.” Clay grinned wider at him. “After all, that’s what we have most in common, right? We both love robots, especially ones that can transform and, uh, slot together perfectly.”“Something like that.” Justin whispered, abruptly aware that Clay's aunt was smirking at him again.
      Chapter 7
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Christmas dinner was almost a mirror of Thanksgiving, although somehow with more food. Clay and Justin had spent the afternoon sitting on the couch next to each other, chatting with Clay’s Dad and Frank, telling stories, remembering the past, Frank talking about his life before he had found redemption in a pottery shop in the middle of small town America. Meanwhile, Lainie and Skychild were in the kitchen, cooking and baking and preparing, snapping short refusals any time he and Clay offered to help out. Justin wasn’t entirely sure what Clay’s uncle had been doing before he became a potter, although it must have been something disturbing as Frank got a far away look in his eyes and the grip on his coffee cup went white-knuckled. He was somewhat relieved when dinner was finally called, and Justin took his seat next to Clay without thinking. Skychild had given him a meaningful look, but Clay pointed to the seat on his other side and she moved away after a longer than comfortable moment.Any lingering awkwardness was forgotten as Lainie reluctantly allowed Skychild to say grace, interrupting her a few seconds into the blessing to remind her sister-in-law that she was not the commune right now and there would be no nude dancing in the garden after dinner. Clay caught Justin’s eye and they sniggered into their sodas. Dinner passed in a heavy indulgence of courses until finally the cheese board was produced and they staggered over to the couch to recover. Any risk of a nap or food-induced doze was averted when Frank pulled out his Christmas present and persuaded everyone to join him in a game of Trivial Pursuit. Clay and Justin played together as a team while Frank and Matt faced off against Lainie and Skychild.The questions were difficult, well, some of them. Justin did well on Sports and Leisure, while Clay excelled at History and Geography, and after about thirty minutes of playing, they had collected enough cheeses to fill their wheel and start trying to return to the middle of the board. Justin had never played any board games before, but Clay was surprisingly good at it, and despite various furious challenges and loud disputes over the questions and answers on the cards, an atmosphere of enjoyable competition pervaded the air. They were ultimately defeated some forty minutes later after a stunning run by Skychild and Lainie who collected their remaining three cheeses and stormed to victory after rolling the dice successfully turn after turn.  Justin smirked at Clay as he yawned and stretched his arms above his head. “That was a lot of fun.”“Yeah, we used to play board games every weekend when I was a kid, but I guess I’ve lost the knack.” Clay yawned again and looked over at his parents. “Uh, we’re gonna head out to the coach house, maybe watch a film over there. We’ll leave you guys to talk or whatever old people do!”“Clay!” Justin elbowed him playfully as Matt rolled his eyes and Lainie just shooed them away. “C’mon, you’re the one who’s yawning like he’s worn out.”“Don’t forget to hang the dreamcatcher over your bed,” Skychild reminded them from where she was sitting cross-legged on the floor. “Oh, and Clay and Justin, in case you’re asleep when Frank and I leave tomorrow morning, I wanted to invite you both to our commune in the spring or summer break. Your positive energies and melding auras will just be a joy to every-”“They might have plans before heading off to college, Sky.” Lainie interrupted as Justin stood up quickly. “We’ll let you know.” He replied, offering her a grateful smile. “Thanks though.”“Mmh, yeah, thanks. Let’s go, Justin.” Clay grunted and stood up, leaning into Justin’s supporting hand on his back as they walked towards the back door just off the kitchen. “I’ll wait and say goodbye to my aunt and uncle, you go out and put on the TV.”“Ok, anything in particular you in the mood for?”“Something with space.”“I’ll find something then.” Justin smiled and gestured at the fridge. “Could do with some snacks though.”“Seriously? After all that food? And the cheese?!” Clay stared at him as Justin shrugged. “Fine, fine.”“I’m still growing!”“I know one part of you that’s growing.”“Haha.” Justin chuckled to himself as he stepped into the back garden, walking slowly across the grass. He stopped and twirled around, tilting his head back so he could look up at the sky overhead. The light pollution wasn’t so bad that he couldn’t make out one or two pinpricks of genuine stars as well as the moving lights of planes or the too-bright twinkle of satellites in low orbit around the Earth. If he compared his life now to where it was a year ago, to where it had been heading, he might as well have been on a different planet. There was only one person he could credit that change to; one person who had dragged him out of despair and back to life, one person who seemed to want him just for him, one person who had made it so abundantly clear that he’d have Justin’s back no matter what. That kind of…devotion was more alien to Justin that any holiday tradition, especially when it came with no strings, no limitations, just…love.“What are you thinking about?” Clay’s voice behind him made Justin turn around and smile.“Nothing, everything, you.”“Hmm, that seems a lot to be thinking about.” His arms were full of chip bags and sodas. “Will you give me a hand?”“I’ll give you both.” Justin took one of the bags and cradled several soda cans in-between his arm and his body, using his free hand to take Clay’s in his own. He smiled at the surprised expression on his face and tugged Clay towards the coach house. “C’mon.”“What if-”“I don’t care who sees us or what they think, I only care about you.” Justin smiled again as Clay blinked and then shrugged.“Ok.”
        Notes:
          That’s all for now, more to come in future updates, especially when the fourth season comes out in a while. Thanks for reading!
      Chapter 8
        Notes:
          A short Valentine's Day update! This popped into my head today and I felt like writing it.
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Clay closed the lid of the laptop guiltily when he heard the key in the door of the coach house and looked up in time to see Justin come in. The other guy had one earphone in, the other hanging by the cord, his dark jacket half open, and his school bag slung over one shoulder. “Hey!”
“Hey.” Justin paused when he spotted Clay and nodded cautiously. “What’s wrong?”
“Nothing.”
“Uh huh.” He walked over to the counter and placed his keys and phone on the surface, placing his bag softly on the ground. “What are you working on?”
“Nothing.” Clay repeated, too quickly from Justin’s arched brow. “Uh.”
“Hmm, fine, keep your secrets.” Justin smirked at him and crouched down next to his bag. “You know what day it is today, right?”
“Yeah, Valentines, pink confetti everywhere and lovesick idiots disrupting every damn class.”
“I did notice how much of a grump you were at school.” Justin laughed softly as Clay glared at the back of his head. “No feelings of love in the air?”
“Not at school. Here is different.”
“Yeah, it is.”
Clay took the opportunity of Justin facing away from him to crack open the lid of his laptop and try and get to the mute key before the video he was watching could resume playing. He tapped it successfully, but as relief surged through him, Clay realized he could smell Justin’s aftershave right in front of him. “Oh.” He looked up at the guy as Justin tilted his head to see the screen.
“You were watching porn, weren’t you?” Justin grinned at him, his hands clasped behind his back. “Guys or…?”
“I was doing research.” Clay muttered defensively. “For a story.”
“Uh huh.” His soon-to-be brother’s grin got even larger and Justin’s eyes sparkled deviously. “You gonna tell me?”
“It’s just…I wanted…it’s only…” Clay sighed and pulled the screen open fully, turning to show Justin. “Happy now?”
“Hmm,” He hummed to himself and reached out with one hand to tap the spacebar, resuming the playback. “Ok, so, it’s a flexing video? The guy’s hot: I didn’t know you liked them that smooth and muscular though.”
“Mmh.” Clay pressed his lips together and shrugged as crimson raced up his neck. “He, uh, jerks off later. And he is, err, very Greek statuesque, but, uh, I like you more.” Justin grinned again and Clay placed the laptop on his bed behind him. “It really is just research, Justin.”
“It’s cool, I like learning more about this side of you, you don’t talk about what you enjoy in bed; discovery is fun, but now I have a better idea.”
“It was one video.”
“Uh huh, well, I hope, um, I got you something.” Justin winced awkwardly and held out a small wrapped box with a snazzy bow that sat in the palm of his hand. “If I had known you wanted a gun show, I would have trimmed down and covered myself in oil!”
“What?!” Clay’s eyes snapped up to Justin’s smirk. “I…I’m seriously beginning to regret showing you that.”
“Uh huh, you’ll have to tell me about the story later. All the details.” Justin shrugged out of his jacket and sat down on his own bed, watching as Clay turned the box over in his hands. “Just open it already! And be careful; the side with the bow is the top.”
“Hmm.” He undid the bow and pulled the ribbon off before sitting next to Justin. The lid was pushed off easily and Clay smiled as he looked at the individually wrapped truffles dusted in different coatings. “Aww, thanks!”
“I saw them on my way home from the coffee shop, I could have gotten a dozen roses too but-”
“My allergies thank you for not doing that.”
“Exactly.” Justin smiled as Clay leaned into him, their heads turning until Justin moved forward and pressed his lips gently against Clay’s. “Mmh.”
“So, what’s on them?” Clay muttered when they broke apart with a breathy intensity. “Coco dust for sure, but this one?”
“Peppermint, she said, and the other one is expresso.” Justin pointed them out as Clay smiled happily. “It’s just something small.”
“It’s perfect.” Clay sniffed when the emotion unexpectedly rolled over him. He smiled as Justin hugged him close. “Just sorry I didn’t get you anything, I wouldn’t have thought you’d care about celebrating this holiday.”
“Not normally.” Justin stood up and slowly peeled his shirt off, smirking as he noticed Clay’s attention shift from the truffles to his torso. Once he had the garment in his hands, Justin tossed it away and let his hands drift down his stomach to his belt. “But then again, if you’re doing research for a story, maybe a sexy story, maybe this is the perfect time to get romantic!”
“Mmh, live inspiration is so much better…” Clay managed as his own hand slid towards the cords that tied up his sweat pants. “Alright, show me what you got lover boy!”
        Notes:
          As I said, this is a short update for today’s holiday, I’ll probably do another one for Easter, maybe even sneak in a St. Patrick’s Day update in about a month. Thank you for continuing to enjoy this story! I hope you’re having/had/will have a wonderful Valentine’s Day!
      Chapter 9
        Notes:
          This is the start of a three chapter Easter update, hope you enjoy it!
    Chapter Text
    The weeks seemed to glide on by, becoming months with startling ease, and just when it seemed Christmas was a recent memory and Valentine’s Day was mere days before, Easter arrived with clear skies, warm weather, and the bursting of nature all around them. The Jensens didn’t have much of a garden other than a neatly trimmed front lawn and a leafy, treelined back garden with some flower beds around the curve of the path that led to the coach house. But Justin could feel the change in the air, hear the birds twittering loudly in the early morning, see the blossoming of green buds along the otherwise bare arms of the trees. As he lay in bed, the ever earlier beams of sunlight crept over his duvet and along his naked skin until it bathed his face in warmth. Usually the sun never got that far as Clay would have rolled over with mumbled protests and Justin would get up to close the blinds fully.
The weekends were their best times; so easy to distance themselves from everyone with excuses of homework and due assignments and time spent with Clay’s parents. Even if all they ever seemed to do was lounge around, enjoying each other’s company, enjoying being together. It was an open secret at school, though, at least that’s what Justin thought, Clay still didn’t want to bring attention to it, to their “special” relationship. And Justin wasn’t going to pressure him into doing it, not when they were so close to graduating. 
He glanced down at Clay as the other guy shifted against him, his cheek lying on Justin’s chest, his hand somewhere below Justin’s midriff, the precision lost in the comfortable heat that kept them together. But Clay was waking up, moving around more erratically than the usual peacefulness of his slumber. Justin raised his hands and folded them behind his back, keeping out of the way in case Clay was in an active dream. Those sequences Clay said seemed so real, they often made him roll over and kick his legs out or wrap his arms tightly around Justin’s torso, sometimes with an accompanying thrust of his hips to grind more against his body. The first time it happened was disturbing, but by now he was used to Clay’s bedtime quirks.
“Hey,” Justin whispered softly as Clay’s eyes blinked open and he grunted softly. “Good dream?”
“Hmm, confusing.” Clay rolled over so he was lying on his back, his head resting against Justin’s bicep. “Detailed, like all the others, fast-paced…erotic.”
“Oh really?”
“Chocolates and hot guys, I don’t know what that means.”
“Well, clearly, I’m the hot guy!” Justin smirked as Clay tilted his head back to roll his eyes at him. “And chocolate…well, I mean, it is Easter, so that makes sense!”
“Hmm, I guess so.” Clay murmured, his hand reaching down to adjust himself. “I really have to pee.”
“Err, ok?”
“But I also really don’t want to move, this is the best part of the day.” Clay had closed his eyes again, a lazy smile pulling at his lips when Justin crossed an arm across his chest, hugging him loosely. 
“So, any Easter plans or traditions I should know about?” Justin asked, letting his fingers move in slow circular motions against Clay’s skin. “Your parents went to church at Christmas, are they doing the same this holiday?”
“Err, no, they only go at Christmas because my Mom likes the singing.” Clay shrugged, rolling onto his front and climbing half on top of Justin with a smile. “They did tell me last night that they’re going upstate to see some friends later this morning and they’ll be back on Monday.”
“Why are you only telling me this now?”
“Mmmh, I forgot.” He smirked again. “You came home late from football practice, remember? And Justin Foley in nothing but mud, sweat, and a jockstrap is too much for my mind to handle, I must have pushed out all the unimportant things!”
“Hah,” Justin barked a laugh and then nodded. “Ok, so they’re gone for two nights, that’s pretty sweet.”
“Uh huh. I promised no house parties though.”
“Yeah, uh, I don’t like house parties…” Justin muttered as stomach lurched uncomfortably, memories of his failure that night at the party with Jessica flashing through his mind. “Uh, that just means more time for us to be together, right?”
“Exactly.” 
“So, do you have Easter traditions?” He asked again, moving away from the other topic quickly.
“Mmh, well, there was this one I used to do every year when I was a kid; it’d feel kinda pathetic if I did it by myself now, but with you here…well, it fits right in with our favorite pastime.”
“Huh? But you were-”
“I meant our other favorite pastime!” Clay interrupted him hotly as Justin sniggered and let his hands run down Clay’s back towards his cotton clad ass. “Netflix and chilling…and snacking.”
“Ok, let’s hear it.” Justin nodded encouraging. “I love your traditions, they’re so wholesome!”
“Err, right.” He shifted position again, this time moving closer to Justin’s face, his bare skin flush against Justin’s chest and thigh. “So, um, my Dad actually introduced me to this crazy old English film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang! and it’s always had a special place in my heart ever since. We’d watch it at Easter and just pig out on chocolate as we did so.”
“Haha, I like that tradition, so simple!”
“Thanks, usually, my Mom makes some chocolate themed snacks and treats, but with her heading out of town…I guess we’ll have to make do with Easter Eggs this year.”
“Are the ingredients still there?” Justin asked as a plan clicked together in his mind. Clay nodded silently. “Ok, so, how about we bake for ourselves?”
“You’re terrible in the kitchen.”
“I can help.” Justin replied frostily until Clay laughed and he chuckled along. “Well, why not?”
“Yeah, I mean, ok, it shouldn’t be too hard to follow the instructions,” He nodded and then gestured behind him. “And with the kitchenette here, we can make a mess and not have to worry about it.”
“Oh, I plan on making a mess in here in just a few minutes!” Justin grinned and hugged Clay tighter, rolling over so he was on top of him. “Do you still want to talk about choc-”
“Just get your pants off!” Clay interrupted him breathlessly, his stomach clenching excitedly from the gleam in Justin’s eyes. “We can discuss desert later!”
      Chapter 10
        Notes:
          I changed the rating to Mature as the innuendo gets real this chapter!
    Chapter Text
    After seeing his parents off, Clay and Justin gathered the ingredients for their chocolate themed feast from the kitchen in the main house and brought everything over to the coach house. Well…Justin carried as Clay supervised and ensured they had what was needed. By the time they had returned to the kitchenette, Justin was flushed, his sweater cast to one side, Clay’s gaze skipping lazily over his bare arms and up to his handsome face, memories of the night before dragging themselves up in a slideshow of lustful images.
“Uh, can you…” He pointed at the counter and then at the packets of graham crackers. “Take them out and crush them into small pieces, I’ll melt the chocolate and get the marshmallows.”
“Is this for rocky road?” Justin glanced at him. “I thought they had nuts?”
“My Dad is allergic, so my Mom always uses graham crackers, she says it gives the same texture.” Clay explained, pulling out a glass bowl with one hand as he set the hob on high with the other. He smiled at Justin’s concerned expression. “Don’t worry, I can multitask.”
“Yeah, I know; your hands are very good at doing two things at once.” He smirked and shook his head as Clay barked a laugh. “But, um, it’s not like we’re on deadline or anything, you can slow down.”
“Mmh, yeah, but I figured if we get everything going early, that just leaves all afternoon for…our other pastime.”
“Oh? Oh, well, you’ve convinced me!”
“Ah, and I didn’t even have to try.”
“You never do.” Justin replied softly, holding Clay’s gaze long enough to make his insides tremble. “Um, so I just crush them?”
“Yeah, that’s right.” Clay nodded, his cheeks flushed as heat purred through his body. He turned back to the pan, watching the butter melt before adding the chocolate a little at a time. “How’s it coming?”
“Fine.” Justin answered in between grunts. “How big do the pieces have to be?”
“Uh, anywhere from dust to, err, thumbnail size.” Clay glanced over his shoulder, watching as Justin tipped the crushed biscuit chunks into a bowl. “Yeah, that looks good.”
“Ok, what next?”
“Toss the marshmallows in and leave them next to the baking tray, I just have to wait for the chocolate to melt fully.”
“Hmm, let me see.” 
Justin peeked over his shoulder, his proximity making Clay’s heartbeat creep higher. He could feel Justin’s warm breath on the back of his neck, the familiar scent of aftershave and sweat and deodorant that came together in such a perfect mix of smells that it made him giddy just being in the air around him. Clay leaned back slightly, a smile tugging at his lips when he felt Justin’s arms wrap slowly around his waist, his hands clasped loosely above the strings of Clay’s sweatpants. “Careful, I have molten chocolate here.”
“Mmh.” Justin grunted again. “I can see that…there looks to be a lot of calories in this snack alone.”
“Ah, yeah, probably, but we’ll work it off. I’m sure you can think of a way to do that.”
“Oh yeah, especially since we don’t have to worry about keeping the noise down anymore!” Justin winked at him as he moved back to the other end of the counter, letting Clay turn off the heat and take the pot off the hob. “It has to cool?”
“Uh huh, then we add the graham crackers and marshmallows, leave it to set and done!” Clay nodded. “The multi-layer chocolate Easter Egg nest is after that.”
“Ambitious much?”
“I gotta give you the genuine experience, don’t I?” Clay shrugged. “Plus, I want to over-indulge; you said you wanted to go on a cut after this holiday, get all lean and ripped for summer, right?”
“Are you saying I’m not muscular and defined enough for you now?” Justin arched a brow at him and tilted his head in a way that made Clay’s ass muscles clench reflexively. He pulled up the front of his t-shirt and continued on. “Because, I thought you liked my abs?”
“Hmm, I don’t know, maybe they’ve lost a little definition.” Clay smirked and folded his arms nonchalantly. “How about you flex and clench, show me I’m wrong?”
“How about now?” Justin asked as he twisted his torso back and to one side, before releasing the pose and letting his ab muscles bunch and tighten.
“Mmh, I can’t really see…you better take your shirt off.”
“Yeah, that’s a fair point.” Justin smirked and pulled his t-shirt slowly over his head, tossing it onto the bed behind him. When he looked up, Clay had got closer, his eyes filled with lust, his sweats bulging appreciatively. Justin continued to flex and moved equally nearer until they were inches apart. “How about now?”
“Mmh,” Clay moaned between closed lips, feeling Justin’s words against his skin, an almost magnetic attraction pulling their bodies closer. “We really should get the ingredients in before the chocolate…hardens.”
“I’m such a distraction, huh?” Justin whispered, but he left Clay to complete his task with unsteady fingers. “Let me help you.”
“Oh!” Clay started when Justin stood close behind him, pressing his crotch into Clay’s ass and hooking his fingers into the hem at the front of his pants. “You’re really eager today.”
“Can I lick the spoon?” Justin asked as Clay rolled his head to one side to look at him. The devilish twinkle in his eyes was too much to refuse and a wooden spoon half coated in chocolate came towards Justin’s mouth. “Oh, so what do you want me to do?”
“Lick it.”
“With long licks?”
“Yeah, lick it!” Clay moaned as Justin’s tongue licked a long strip across the top. “Mmh, put it all in your mouth!”
“Oh yeah!” Justin groaned, his lips wrapped around the girth of the spoon. “Ohh, it’s so big!”
“You like that?”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah?” 
“Yeah!” Justin grabbed his hand and stopped Clay from pushing the spoon in and out of his mouth. “But now I think it’s time I grasped the thick handle!”
“You are the worst.” Clay groaned with a rueful shake of his head, before he closed his eyes. There was a sudden rush of cool air against his thighs and navel and then the sensation of Justin kneeling down in front of him. “Oh, you’d don’t have to…oh! Oooh!”
“Well, I think we lost about an hour’s baking time.” Clay said, leaning against the doorframe of the bathroom as Justin gargled mouthwash. “And that minty fresh breath of yours doesn’t exactly go well with chocolate.”
“I think I’m done tasting, I did just have-”
“Yeah, I know.”
“You still think it’s gross?” Justin asked as he straightened up, dabbing his mouth and neck with a towel. “You get used to the taste.”
“It just weirds me out.” Clay shuddered. “I don’t mind you doing it, I just don’t want to swallow.”
“That’s cool.” Justin came back over to him and kissed his lips gently. “Just like I’m happy to watch you bake, but I don’t really want to get involved in the actual measuring and weighing.”
“Cool.” Clay put a hand on Justin’s chest when he made to move back into the main room. “I’m gonna have to ask you to put your shirt back on though, bro, you’re just too damn distracting otherwise.”
“You got it, bro.” Justin echoed back to him, his voice soft as a smirk flickered around his lips. “Whatever you need.”
      Chapter 11
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Easter Sunday arrived with a long lie-in and a slow, sultry shower that Clay and Justin enjoyed together in the main house’s bathroom, making full use of the jets and advanced settings from the bathtub nearby. Once dressed and sated, they had breakfast on the patio at the rear of the house, Justin sipping coffee and looking at the birds as they flitted and flew across the lawn to peck at the nuts in the birdfeeders hanging from the sturdy branches of an ash tree. Clay was busy on his phone, bending the truth just enough so they wouldn’t be disturbed by their friends.It always felt like an unnecessary complication, just another lie to get entangled in when there were already so many different ones playing out. But Justin didn’t want to force the issue, he didn’t want to make Clay feel uncomfortable about discussing it again. And with the pleasant morning so far, Justin was looking forward to spending the entire day with Clay all to himself. Happiness surged through the center of his chest as he smiled over at Clay. “Is it too early to start on Easter Eggs?”“You just ate two chocolate croissants!” Clay stared at him as Justin licked his lips seductively. “I mean, if you get an upset stomach later, don’t blame me.”“But you’ll be there to look after me, right?”“I’m always prepared for anything,” Clay said with a long suffering sigh, the effect undermined by the smirk he directed at Justin’s careful expression. “Yeah, I’ll always take care of you.”“You did before, I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for you.” His expression changed, seriousness pulling at his eyes, his mouth tilted in less of a cute pucker and more morose. “Clay, I…”“I know, you don’t have to say it, I love you too.” Clay replied softly, holding Justin’s gaze long enough to force his mind’s eye away from those memories that still haunted him. He stood up abruptly and nodded towards the coach house. “Let’s get set up, huh? There’s plenty of movies we can watch today other than the traditional one.”“Did you already put the lamb in?”“Uh huh, while you were at the bakery; everything is ready, we can just chill today.” Clay extended his hand, smiling genuinely when Justin took it and the pair walked across the lawn towards their private sanctum. The afternoon passed in a slow, delicious tableau of gorging and overindulgence, Clay and Justin sprawled out on their couch, resting in-between moments of renewed feasting. It was hot in the coach house, but they didn’t put on the aircon, using the extra warmth as an excuse to strip down to just underwear, Justin in his well-fitted trunks, Clay a little more self-conscious in his boxers. He still wasn’t expecting any visitors, but the door was locked just in case, the blinds pulled shut, only the glare from the tv giving any light.In the chocolate scented haze, they came closer together, the final traces of modesty cast aside so they could lie naked against each other. Justin was behind him, arms wrapped loosely around Clay’s chest, one leg raised and pulled under Justin’s to hook them tighter together. He smiled when he heard the gurgle from Justin’s stomach and the stifled pained groan from behind him. “I told you you’d get a stomach ache.”“Urgh, it was worth it…” Justin muttered and shifted against him. “That chocolate nest cake was too heavy, with the whipped cream and broken Easter egg on top of it, ughhh.”“You had three slices, I warned you-”“Mmmh, I’ll feel better soon, right?”“Let me get you some peppermint.” Clay began to get up, but Justin pulled him back down. “What?”“No, don’t go, I’ll suffer through,” Justin pressed his lips together and arched one brow as Clay shook his head. "I need you here, bro."“Don’t pull the hurt puppy look on me.”“It always works though.” Justin smirked as Clay sighed. “Right?!”“Emotional manipulation.” Clay grunted as he sat on the edge of the couch, Justin still hugging him, resting his cheek on Clay’s shoulder. “But you’re right...I hate that these have been the best six months of your life.”“What?” Justin sat up and moved beside him, confusion replacing his content expression. “What does that mean?”“We haven’t done anything: we stay home, and we hang out, mostly normal stuff.” Clay swallowed thickly. “Uh, like I hate that you never felt safe before now, I hate that your Mom was-is-such a…I hate that you spent all that time on the streets, in juvie, so much lost time. I just wish I had talked to you sooner, I wish I had gone after you sooner, not been so damn afraid.”“It’s ok, I’m here now and so are you.” Justin threw his arm around Clay’s shoulders and hugged him tighter. “You’re my shining light, Clay, you’re my brother, you’re the one I love than anyone else, ever. And, yeah, the past sucked, but I don’t live there anymore, not when I’m with you. When I’m with you, everything is…perfect. There’s no effort, there’s no judgement, I know you have my back and I hope you know that I’ll do anything for you, you don’t even have to ask.”“Thanks.” Clay replied, leaning closer to him. “Sorry I got so emotional.”“It’s cool, and hey, my stomach feels better!”“Another slice then?” Clay stood up as Justin smirked.“You know me too well!”
        Notes:
          That’s it for now, folks, I’m not sure when I’ll update this next, but I’m thinking of letting the boys go on a little road trip over the summer! Get them out of the coach house and onto the beach! Thanks for reading!
  Notes:
  I've never written for this fandom before, but this story has been rattling around in my mind for the past two weeks since I binged the entirety of Thirteen Reasons Why in one go! I'm thinking there'll be three chapters with the possibility of smut in the last one. I'm not sure yet, I just really liked the idea of them comforting each other, and honestly, we all need some fluff from time to time! Thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Hide Comments (88)
  Comments
          Angel2912, Brownie86, vitaminelf, EmilyisSOgay, New_level_of_Death, Help_I_ship_everything, mxrthe, chewing_pink_bubblegum, candicegemini, braelinnotherern, Hydrakinz, SuperJawnAvenger, pannymoomins, Larryiskife, The1eldritchapple, Multi_fandom7, TheNightCircus, PurplePoppies, rodas97, JustWestofNowhere, sarka_jencikova, ohnofrances, Indulger, KagayaSenpai, Book_lover_1506, V_cameos, toxicwastepond, AussieGirll1988, MissInsignificance, NerdyWizard64, Midhel, LunaTulli97, BonsajB, lionc, MaxLoserDuxx, Takeme_faraway, Shaunalaw, Isabella1324, Loser_baby09, Shadowoftenshi, magda_dl, eattoast, Niamh_9804, Windofstrategy, Art_L, luvsthemall, Faengwen, WildRabbit97, Rune_Akeru, Babybird1821, 
               and 99 more users
            lana1696, juanjoingles, OrangeColoredSky, trix5842, Tanukichan, eathechildren, Safana, MyownFairytale, wxizzer, Annatheweirdo, literallyjer, Haunted_bungalow, spring_and_summer, Yall_its_me_nicole, Lucds, Vhopejikooktrash, picassos, Randi_Kat, bluemoon1204, Robzzz, Xante_lewis, gaysontodds, Hxrcrvx, Faeriemaid, LoveOnTheBrain, TrulyIncredimazable, choviez, Mariessa, Thomymsosa, Otaku1231, Tigercat20, manapiro, Heatherb27, TheZodiacNerd, codeman6100, Rasmuda, SarahHunter152, StrangledAvatar, glowmist12, foxanddeer, dmw327, xRisiesx, maokan, guess_im_a_lesbian, DATALIENPHSYCO, Hexe94, LeonXAether, Beautiful_Benevolence, Jaykill_101, Elapse, Imechii, LunaxVersnoyen, annahale14, Fedoraz1, Frvrmnchxld, Amadea, Whenahitashu, SuzzyGallagher, Shadow_Belle2017, Janneke, soulcomposer, lynnnieee, FaneLothaireBloodpaw, SaCnoodles, AnimePanda, Cassanfrq, lunarylight, AprilWolf, Lolamiou7, fairenouf, lvamelia, Engel0895, UguuBeef, c_kriss, LylaMackenzie, BellaStark, cutiemarkie, bnjjad, Laura99b, PlumeNoire5, NfunnierS, HELLBENTAUTHOR, AsterKosmos, thiamlover815, TheFoxyFox123, TBGkaru, alivefornaomy, Sanella1987, aga2250, 0_0Uta12, nonaaa14, TVTime, astrospace, ksz13, idontknow11, DebbyMorningstar, themermaidwriter, Creamyblues and eliott_le_raton_laveur
             as well as 
          171 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 6
            Mon 06
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 11:34AM +07 
        I hope you're doing well and had a good weekend. All this business in the news with Iran and Iraq has been very troubling, and I'm sure it's been very stressful for you. Hopefully things settle down soon and cooler heads prevail. Anyway, what a lovely Christmas morning Clay and Justin had! It sounds like a delightful way for them to wake up, and I got out a kick out of how Justin commented that it was a good thing the door was locked and Clay's mom couldn't come in before Clay agreed because they "could have been doing this…" before they got frisky!Oh man, but then Clay's dad had to come back too. I guess it's okay since the adults were probably fairly willing to be patient. It's a good thing Clay didn't have like a little sister or something who was dying to start opening presents!Dawww, and then Justin tearing up over the presents that Clay got him -- that was really sweet and really shows how new and different this whole Christmas experience is compared to what he was used to. I'd say he's well on his way to remembering this as the best Christmas ever the way Clay wants him to!Haha, but of course they weren't fooling Skychild! That was sweet of Justin to make Clay's mom a journal, and the book for Clay's dad sounds like it was a hit too! Ohh, and Justin and Clay got each other transformers! That's adorable and...
  “After all, that’s what we have most in common, right? We both love robots, especially ones that can transform and, uh, slot together perfectly.”
OMG! That's hysterical! Sounds like they found the perfect gift for each other! Haha, and of course Skychild noticed that exchange too!What a delightful Christmas chapter. I'm looking forward to reading the New Year's one in bed tonight.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 6
            Tue 07
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:55AM +07 
        Uh, well, it's been a lot of long hours here since Thursday, even had to work through the weekend which isn't the norm for me, but I'd honestly be surprised if things heated up any more than they already have. Given our force posture and relative strength, it'd be madness for Iran to retaliate with a direct attack, it's much more likely that they'll do what they always do and use their proxies to harass and attack our bases, soldiers, and allies. Plus, I would expect them to play the long game and wait and see the outcome of November's election before committing to a path of action. In any case, I'll be glad when this crisis simmers down and things return to relative normalcy.I figured that it would have to be locked so they'd have privacy as well as security, but Clay's parents probably have a master key in case of emergencies. Although, two teenagers sleeping in on Christmas morning is hardly an emergency. But yeah, Clay definitely used that as an excuse to hmm...I reckon he probably sucked Justin off and maybe got a handjob in return. I still have to figure out who is the top and bottom, or at least, which one prefers one position over the other. I think given Clay's relative inexperience, he'd be more interested in trying both. There's also a reveal that Justin makes late in season 3 that makes me question how he views sex in the first place. He's definitely falling in love with Clay so that could make things easier, but I'm not sure I even want to confront that whole side of Justin's character. I'll do some research before I start on the smut parts of this pairing.That's true, kids have zero patience on Christmas morning, lol, meanwhile the rest of us are just ok to wait for the coffee to be done and the breakfast to cook!I hadn't intended for it to go super emotional like that with Justin and the stocking, but it seemed like a perfect moment to convey how much Clay's effort meant to Justin.Oh yeah, Skychild is totally onto them! But I do think Justin cares a little less about public perception than usual and he's not apologetic about it even if Clay's parents still seem oblivious.I find it hard enough to buy presents for people irl, it's almost impossible to think of good enough ones in stories! If you look up pictures of their space in the coach house, you can see a lot of robot themed stuff; posters and figurines and the like, so it is a genuine interest. Plus, in season 3, when the social worker was out to inspect the house and interview the family, she asks Clay how he feels about Justin and (despite being super distracted and kinda sullen) Clay talks about how they have a like of robots in common. Fun other little tidbit for you, late season 3, Clay admits he writes fanfiction :D And he admits it to Justin, which is just the cutest thing ever!Transformers that slot together...I mean, it is accurate on so many levels ;pErr, I hope you weren't disappointed that the final chapter for this update wasn't about New Year's. I was a week late for Christmas, but I got inspired for Clustin over my break and sometimes you just have to write and let the inspiration burn through.Thanks for commenting on this story though and I'm glad that you've enjoyed despite not being familiar with the show or the characters.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 7
            Mon 06
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 03:33PM +07 
        Fantastic chapter! I’m on my phone, so I’ll have a more thorough comment in the morning, but I just so enjoyed their Trivial Pursuit game! And the ending with Justin gazing up at the heavens and pondering how radically his life had changed thanks to Clay was so beautiful and sweet. The “Nothing, everything, you” line was perfect, as was Justin deciding to hold Clay’s hand, damn the possible consequences of someone seeing! Although I suspect Clay’s parents wouldn’t be too bothered and will likely be okay with things once they find out. Actually, I kinda suspect they already know, or at least consider it a possibility, even if they’re a bit more subtle than Skychild and perhaps are waiting for Clay and Justin to tell them in their own time.Anyway, I’m looking forward to more whenever you decide it’s time for another round of updates! Hope your week gets off to a good start! ...in spite of how uncertain things seem to be on the international stage right now.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 7
            Tue 07
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 01:13AM +07 
        Thanks for commenting on this chapter, especially on your phone, this is pretty in depth! I love Trivial Pursuit, it's pretty much the only board game I'm good at, lol. I don't think it's very obscure either, even if people call the wedges or cheese different things. I really wanted to end with Justin's POV given that he's been the focus of this part while Clay was the focus of the first part. Plus, I think he's seeing that Clay isn't just interested in him for his body or as a cuddle buddy, that there's something more between them.Hmm, could very well be, although they're still going ahead with Justin's adoption. It's probably for the best just to get some legal protection for him. For context, Clay is at least a few months older than Justin at 18, Justin being 17. So, if nothing else, birthday chapter is a thing that has to happen!Thanks, today has been good so far. Other than some saber rattling, I don't expect any real escalation. I had been hoping to use this weekend to get back on track with updates to my other stories, but I think I'll be satisfied if I just get an Eternity out this week and then TMW's epilogue at some point this month  XD Anyway, hope your own week is starting off well and not too busy. If you have an expanded comment on this chapter I'd still love to hear it!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 7
            Wed 08
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:07PM +07 
        I did have a few more thoughts on this chapter! I liked the part about Christmas dinner mirroring Thanksgiving dinner, but somehow with more food! Growing up I was never an especially big fan of holiday dinners, Thanksgiving or Christmas. But as an adult I like them better since we do a Friendsgiving every year that I thoroughly enjoy, and my boyfriend/husband's (LOL, still not used to the term switch, and it just feels more natural referring to him as my boyfriend) family does a really fun and tasty breakfast style take on Christmas dinner that I absolutely love and look forward to all year! His mom makes the world's best fried eggs! Anyway, all that aside, it was just nice to see Christmas dinner getting some love in this chapter since people always rave about Thanksgiving dinner and treat Christmas dinner like the ne'er-do-well cousin!
  Justin wasn’t entirely sure what Clay’s uncle had been doing before he became a potter, although it must have been something disturbing as Frank got a far away look in his eyes and the grip on his coffee cup went white-knuckled. 
Yikes, it sounds like Frank went through something dark before becoming a potter. My first thought was maybe he was a war vet with PTSD. But then my second thought was that he had been involved in organized crime. My third thought was that before he discovered pottery, he had an ill-fated love affair with glassblowing that left some scars (burns mostly, I assume :P).
  Any lingering awkwardness was forgotten as Lainie reluctantly allowed Skychild to say grace, interrupting her a few seconds into the blessing to remind her sister-in-law that she was not the commune right now and there would be no nude dancing in the garden after dinner.
Haha, not even a nice little topless frolick by the gardenias? Man, Lainie is strick.I got such a kick out of the Trivial Pursuit game! I'll save my thoughts on that for the other thread though.
  “Oh, and Clay and Justin, in case you’re asleep when Frank and I leave tomorrow morning, I wanted to invite you both to our commune in the spring or summer break. Your positive energies and melding auras will just be a joy to every-”
Yeah! I bet they'd be a big hit with their melding auras! Really though, it sounds like it would be a pretty interesting experience, and definitely the kind of thing to do while you're in college. Like, I still think it would be an interesting experience, but no way would I do it now. But at 18 or 19? Sure! The part with Justin pondering how different his life was now versus where it had been a year ago and where it had been heading was really great and gave that extra emotional thrust to the whole chapter.Wow, and the revelation Justin had about his and Clay's relationship coming, "with no strings, no limitations, just…love" was so profound!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 7
            Fri 10
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:01PM +07 
        It has been a looooooooooong day, so long in fact that I'm just finishing my "day" that started on Tuesday night...ugh. I don't want to look at another cup of coffee for a week, of course, I'm still buzzed so might as well do something useful with the time even if I can't work anymore tonight, lol. Figured I'd grab this comment, Brog Hugs is meant to be calm and relaxing after all!I always felt that Thanksgiving was very much a going through the motions affair back at home, like we did it just because it was expected by the rest of the family, but man, was it always awkward and a chore! But Christmas dinner felt different, even if it was pretty similar as a meal, so I've always enjoyed Christmas more and just feel like that's the one dinner you should put effort into. Of course it probably has to do with the fact that the last few Thanksgivings I've been working so I get the free dinner on base with no washing up or prep :PYeesh, still not used to calling him "husband", eh?! It must be a big leap though after so long together as boyfriends, it sounds so official! I'm definitely not ready for that, haha.Haha, yeah, I left that part open so readers could take what they wanted from it, but I like your suggestions. I imagine spinning pottery and painting it and stuff is very calming and creative and probably a good way to deal with PTSD, plus you're creating something instead of destroying something. I like the idea of Frank being a knee-breaker for the mob in Vegas or back East, haha, and then turning those skills to spinning pots! Although the third one is the best :D I just imagine that his glassblowing career started going wrong the day he had unending hiccups!I know, right? How can they celebrate the pagan holiday without some shirtless dancing?! Plus, you know it's subzero in the MidWest where their commune is and that ain't no time to be frolicking naked around the oak tree!I think that might be a post series experience for them to have once season four wrecks them up! Well, I imagine you've already found yourself and don't need a semi-nudist colony of aura healers and secret past potters to get freaky with :P But Clay and Justin might enjoy something like that before college starts up...Thanks, glad that his reflections still managed to land with enough emotional impact despite you not being familiar with his backstory. I imagine that he didn't want to think about it right then and there but he was still happy about the changes that had happened in his life since Clay "rescued" him.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 7
            Wed 08
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:19PM +07 
        Hopping back into this comment -- Yeah, I think I've only ever played Trivial Pursuit once or twice. It was fun when I played it though. I'm guessing it's the kind of game that's routinely updated to modernize the questions? I recall several of the questions of the edition I played seeming to be heavily rooted to the 80s and 90s.Ahh, I really love board and card games! I can get a bit competitive though, so sometimes I opt to not go down that rabbit hole! Me and a friend have an agreement not to play chess together anymore, and us and a third friend have a no-Risk pact going! That worked really well with doing the first part from Clay's POV while this second part focused more on Justin's. It's good seeing how they each view each other and what's going on between them, and doing this part form Justin's POV in particular made sense given that he didn't have those holiday memories and traditions from childhood and the whole thing was such a new experience for him.
  Hmm, could very well be, although they're still going ahead with Justin's adoption. It's probably for the best just to get some legal protection for him. For context, Clay is at least a few months older than Justin at 18, Justin being 17. So, if nothing else, birthday chapter is a thing that has to happen!
Ah, yeah, that makes sense to get those legal protections in place. And I'm sure just in general it means a lot to Justin and makes him feel more wanted and secure in his standing with that extra layer in place.Thanks, it's been very reassuring hearing your assessment of the whole situation. This past weekend I dreaded checking the news for fear of seeing a headline about all out war breaking out.I better get with it on catching up on TMW then!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 7
            Fri 10
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:30PM +07 
        Well, I'll grab this comment too (still awake, still alert, grr), if only to encourage you to catch up on TMW ;PUh, yeah, there's a bunch of different versions of Trivial Pursuit; ones for different countries, a kid version, different languages etc. I have the "modern" one from 2015 or so,  plus the Genius level card pack and my parents' original set that they gave me back in 2008 when I was starting college-I don't think they realized I wouldn't be doing much board gaming that first year XD But it's from the early 1980s so all the Entertainment questions are super hard because of the age, and everything refers to the Soviet Union and the Cold War and stuff, it's pretty fun to play if only because of its age!Lol, sound like a lot more than "a bit competitive" if you guys have a standing agreement not to play! I don't mind competitive as long as we all have fun and no one gets sore about losing. I think that's why I like Trivial Pursuit over a lot of the other games; you either know the answer or you don't, and no one is going to be strong at every subject.I only hope it's not jarring for new readers to go from Clay's POV to Justin's, I'll probably do both moving forward.Oh, for sure, I mean he has Clay and that's great, but hearing that Lainie and Matt want him to be their son has to be such a reassurance to Justin that he has a safe place to call home now. Hah, I think my assessment wasn't quite up to snuff, but then again, a lot of the intel I see is classified so I can only ever speak in general terms. It's interesting though because Iran gave Iraq's government plenty of notice prior to the strike and the public consensus is that this was done for domestic consumption within Iran itself (There's a special branch within the US military that tracks rocket and missile launches across the planet from allies and enemies alike, so we always get advanced warning of ballistic missile launches). They get to say they struck back at the US, but they don't actually provoke a devastating response from us if they had killed an American service member. As every media pundit I've seen in the past day has called it, the strike was an "offramp" so both sides can stand down and go back to the way things were. War is still highly unlikely but this POTUS can be...unpredictable so it's a case of tensions easing and hoping Fox News isn't taking the place of actual policy advisors XD Iranian sponsored militias are still causing trouble in the region though; that's been a major concern the past 36 hours. I think things will calm down in the days to come, although that incident with the crashed airliner could be a trigger point. It's a tragedy certainly but whatever way you put it, Iran doesn't look good; they either mistook it for an American attack jet and shot it down, or it was an accident and they're just dumping suspicion on themselves by holding onto the black boxes. Anyway, didn't mean to turn this into a mini-briefing, lol. But seriously, yes, catch up with TMW :P I'm really curious about your thoughts on the last three chapters since they have the most significant events of the latter part of the story. If you have time, of course, don't take anything away from writing more Iron Claws!Ah, finally feeling a bit tired, lol. Gonna grab a quick shower and then collapse into bed. I'll get to the Iron Claw reply tomorrow, hopefully.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 7
            Sun 19
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:02PM +07 
        Well, I've got some good news about Eternity and some bad news. The bad news is that I've formally capped the chapter count at 200 and when the story ends, it ends with no continuation or sequel or anything like that. The good news is that I've planned out the remaining 50+ chapters and the final story arc. It's a good one; plenty of mystery and intrigue and a dollop or two of horror, and a lot more smut that in the chapters 100-150, including a NOT smutty spinoff foursome late in the plot arc! It's one of those things that just happens and I think the characters are mature enough by this stage that they won't find it awkward or weird to deal with. I'm happy with the ending, it'll have a nice symmetry to it, I think. Of course, the other good news is that it will be at least Jan 2021 before I'm finished with it, so there's a year's worth of weekly updates still in it and at least two actual smutty spinoff situations! I don't know when you'll get around to reading it-and it'll be here when you do!-but, uh, I think you'll enjoy the final arc. I tried to make it as close to what a season of 10 or 12 episodes would be like on the show itself.Anyway, thought I'd tell you that before I go out, it's a good feeling doing all that planning :D
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 7
            Sun 19
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:20PM +07 
        I was just finishing up an Iron Claws writing session when I got this message and it was so great to get this update about Eternity! I saw you just posted the latest chapter, and I was actually just thinking that as I recall you'd talked about aiming for a total of 200 chapters, so this is very much what I was anticipating, and I think another 52 chapters and a year's worth of updates is quite a great reason to rejoice! 
  It's a good one; plenty of mystery and intrigue and a dollop or two of horror, and a lot more smut that in the chapters 100-150
Wow, that does all sound really awesome! Mystery, intrigue, horror, and smut! What's not to love! :D
  including a NOT smutty spinoff foursome late in the plot arc! It's one of those things that just happens and I think the characters are mature enough by this stage that they won't find it awkward or weird to deal with.
Ohh, fascinating. So hmm, a non-smutty spinofff? It sounds like that means some sort of quad relationship? But like relationship relationship? Quite intriguing indeed! My preliminary hunch would have been that it would have been between Stiles, Liam, Corey, and Theo, but as I recall you indicated that Corey would be leaving the story after the arc you're working on, so that can't be it! My other guess would have been Mason and Brett...but I don't know how likely it is for Mason and Brett to reconcile given everything that's happened...haha, I guess I'm just in for an awesome surprise treat at some point!Oh for sure! I know I'll absolutely love it, and I'm eager to get back into it. I'm probably going to focus on reading TMW next though. Actually, I'm hoping to fit in a nice solid reading session tomorrow night, hopefully after finishing and posting the next Iron Claws chapter. I'm really happy with the way the chapter is going, yet at the same time it still needs a lot of work if that makes any sense. There's a lot going on from just a storytelling and logistical standpoint, but then also of course a lot of emotion tied to the whole thing, and it's required a fair bit more research than a typical chapter. It's one I'm really excited about though. 
  I tried to make it as close to what a season of 10 or 12 episodes would be like on the show itself.
Ahh, nice! I love that! And it's awesome how Eternity has spanned from the beginning of Season 4 all the way to this final post season arc! That's quite an accomplishment and it's been such an amazing ride!That's very much what I'm going for with my zombie fic, and I actually have the ending and all the major arcs planned out too...haha, just obviously hundreds of thousands of words left to write! On that note, WOW, Eternity is knocking at the door of 300K words! And almost 24K hits! That's so incredible and really speaks to what an awesome story it is! Enjoy going out! I hope you meet someone hot and fun to dance with! I'm hoping to squeeze in one more long writing session before bed.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 7
            Mon 20
                                                 Jan 2020
                                                 12:17PM +07 
        So glad you're alive :P JK, but glad to hear you've been working away on Iron Claws the last two weeks! I'm in the middle of my TMW chapter myself (no work today/Monday), have two short sections left, but two important ones. So a bit of a mental break is always a good thing.Yeah, I'm closing in on the conclusion of this arc and it should go according to plan allowing for the nice round 200 chapters total! There's some leeway in the bridge between arcs if one goes over, but I planned it out so there's not too much happening in each chapter. The Guardian arc was only meant to be about 12 chapters and it easily doubled that, so I've been more frugal this time around. It's the first time I've planned 52 chapters in one go though XD But I think that was actually helpful in deciding how to portion out the story and also allow me/us to have a long leadtime for the ending. There'll be a good six or seven Stiam emotional and relationship chapters that don't have do with the Geneticist arc.I want it to go back to the roots of season 1 where there's a mystery and bodies drop and the pack want to help, but don't know how to. And especially how to help without revealing the supernatural. They'll have some adult help, but not from the quarter you'd expect.Yes, so, I'll try and clarify what I meant by the not smutty spinoff foursome. There'll be a moment where a trauma has occurred and Stiles and Liam and these other two guys have dealt with it, but there's a tension between them. Sexual, for sure, but also this desire for pure escapism; to get away from everything that has happened so far. So the four hook up and have this night of wild sex and then the next day things are...awkward. Until the next crisis. But the characters ultimately ok with hooking up together even if it's unlikely to ever happen again. It's not a smutty spinoff because I think it makes sense and is a valid reaction in this story world to what's happening. But it will also be the most explicit of the sex the story has seen; rimming, flip flopping, multiple partners, all vers, a DP (or two), and plenty of cum! So not a fully fledged relationship, but definitely a "canon" hook up. Yeah, Corey is gone at this point-kind of-but not available to this pairing. Mason and Brett seem to have fixed their differences to some degree at the story's current point, but that's a chapter point in its own right that Liam can't deal with right now. There are other characters it could be of course...I get that completely, some chapters just take a lot of work to bring to the page. Especially if there's extra research to do so it feels more realistic. I'm looking forward to reading it!Yeah, three years this, err, March, I think? It's been an epic  story with them so far, although I think I've fallen out of love with Stiam as a couple. But Stiam smut is still a favorite, especially your Werewolves can't get off!. Now that has been a staple ;P Yeah, I reckon there's another 100k in there if each chapter is between 1500 and 2000 words, with smut and battle chapters higher. The hits are kinda crazy though, especially after I took that hiatus last year. But glad people enjoy the story!Eh, it wasn't that kind of going out, I went for a few drinks with some of the other officers. And we never actually left the base XD so I'm not sure it even counts as going out! Hope your writing sessions are going well, I'm about to hop back into TMW again for the last time!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    xRisiesx
              on Chapter 8
            Sat 15
                                                 Feb 2020
                                                 08:33PM +07 
        So happy that you updated, I miss these boys so much...Sweet chapter, loved it😊
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 8
            Sun 16
                                                 Feb 2020
                                                 12:38AM +07 
        Thanks! Glad you enjoyed it! I miss them too, probably why I'll keep doing festive updates until the new season comes out!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 8
            Mon 17
                                                 Feb 2020
                                                 12:05PM +07 
        I finally finished my smut update for Corey's LP69 and this story was the perfect post-writing treat!Hmm, I wonder why Clay is acting all shifty. He must have been reading a Buzzfeed listicle and doesn't want Justin to know. I get it. Everyone has their guilty pleasures.Awww, and Clay's not a fan of the V-day atmosphere at school. I suspect that's because he and Justin are forced to be in the closet at school and that makes it harder to be around all the other, open couples being all lovey dovey when they can't. Haha, aww, Clay's being all cute and flustered now that Justin's busted him doing his "research."Ooh yum! Justin got him truffles! And sex! What an awesome gift!Very delightful story. I'm so glad you decide to write a quick update for this series. I hope you're enjoying some well earned rest and relaxation after all your traveling and your big evaluation! Congrats on how well it went!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 8
            Tue 18
                                                 Feb 2020
                                                 02:37AM +07 
        I saw that you had updated this morning/last night and I had planned to read it when I got off work, but I was just too tired to stay awake, lol, more a reflection of the jet lag than anything else! So, I'm keeping it for later after I do some work on my Stiam smut update for Eternity, looking forward to it!Haha, Clay's guilty pleasures are a little more naughty! But then again, it can be awkward for the boyfriend to find him watching porn...That's pretty accurate, Clay can also just be a bit gloomy full stop. But I remember Valentine's Day in high school and it was simultaneously the most awkward and embarassing day of the year. It was a small high school too, only about 400 people or so, and that was at the height of its population, so everyone knew everyone else and I distinctly recall the awkward horror of some girl coming over to me and asking to be her Valentine and just wanting to have the ground swallow me up! At least Clay already has Justin, he wasn't lusting after the football team's RB... Err, I mean, yes, they're not out and neither of them particularly want to be so it's a stressful day.I have to admit I do love truffles! And they seemed like something Justin would grab to show Clay he means something to him without going overboard. The sex is off page, haha, but it definitely happens. It'd be a good jumping off point if/when I write the accompanying smut collection for this story.Yeah, it literally just came to me on Friday as I was doing some of my own "research" for the Eternity chapter, and I figured I'd write a short update rather than just think about it. I'll probably do another one for St Patrick's Day in about a month.I'm mostly caught up on sleep, although the weird dreams haven't stopped. Today's one was me teaching POTUS (the current one!) how to use a Fitbit as a tsumani drowned DC. I have no idea what that means and I'm afraid to find out XD I'll just be happy to get this Eternity smut done; I've been having a really weird feeling about the story the past week or so. I think it's because a reader left a very upset comment about how they didn't like Liam at all and I'm not sure if that's due completely to his recent storyline or because of the evolution in the way I've written him. Anyway, I got smut to write!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    xRisiesx
              on Chapter 9
            Sun 12
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 06:50PM +07 
        Ahh, I love their dynamic do much😊 Happy Easter!🐣🐰
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 9
            Sun 12
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 09:08PM +07 
        Thanks, happy Easter to you too!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 10
            Mon 13
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 10:13AM +07 
        What a deliciously erotic installment! I was curious what you'd do with them for Easter, and this was such a delightful surprise. They definitely seem to be getting to a more sexual point of their relationship. Or perhaps it's just that more was overtly depicted on the page. It certainly had that can't-keep-their-hands-to-themselves vibe though! I particularly enjoyed the part with Justin showing off his abs. I got a kick out of them making their own Easter treats too. Easter's always a time of chocolate rabbits and candy, but I've never made, or even known anyone to make, homemade Easter treats! I always have to remind myself I don't like Rocky Road as much as I think I do though. It's the marshmallows. Marshmallows are good in hot chocolate or s'mores and things, but I think they're a rather conflicting texture for ice cream! Hard and crunchy, like nuts or bits of chocolate, are wonderful in ice cream, but marshmallows really spoil the consistency! Their concoction sounded quite good overall though. I hope you're having a great Easter! It's a pretty lowkey, regular Sunday for us, but still quite pleasant.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 10
            Tue 14
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 02:03AM +07 
        Thanks! I'm glad you enjoyed it! There's another chapter I'll get started on later, but it's just the usual hugs and comfort. This chapter was a lot more sexual, that's why I changed the rating. I had a few ideas for Easter, but a chill day for them seemed ideal, especially since I wasn't going to be doing too much myself, lol. That and the whole theme for this story is them spending time with each other. I'd say they're having a lot of sex, like 2-3 times a day at least, and Justin is definitely enjoying bringing out Clay's horndog side!Ah, really? Yeah, that's an old family tradition that was carried on while I was a kid and then I sometimes do it myself when I feel like making the effort. I remember one year, my cousin and I made our own Easter eggs by melting chocolate and using these molds his older brother made for us, that was pretty fun! And I just realized that I probably should have specified that the rocky road they're making is the non-ice cream, no bake variant. That's pretty uncommon here, since most people think rocky road, they think ice cream. But this variant is simple; melted chocolate and butter, mixed with marshmallows and the broken up graham cracker (you can use nuts like Justin says, but I'm allergic so obviously have to substitute). Toss it all in a tray and into the fridge, leave for a couple of hours and...done! Cut it into squares and it's that perfect mix of chocolate and crunch and soft chewiness, mmmh. But all that said, I agree with you about marshmallows and ice cream, no thanks to chewy bits!Yeah, it's been weird not eating in the chow hall at a holiday and I spent yesterday playing video games mostly XD Glad your day was nice and relaxed! A good way to head into the next week. Keep safe!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 10
            Wed 15
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 06:51AM +07 
        Ahh, I thought you had changed the rating actually, but I wasn't positive! It did one of those content-restricted, "Are you sure you want to proceed?" deals when I clicked the chapter on Sunday and I was surprised.
  I had a few ideas for Easter, but a chill day for them seemed ideal, especially since I wasn't going to be doing too much myself, lol. 
It can be tough to envision the characters off on a wild adventure when you're cooped up yourself -- or just enjoying some quiet time in. I think part of the reason I've had so much trouble re-focusing on my own writing is because I'm having trouble getting in the headspace and almost feel like I should be addressing the pandemic/social distance, even though that wouldn't fit at all with the plot of any of my stories. I have been toying around with doing a new fic addressing it, but on the other hand, I think there's a lot to be said for escapism and if I could concentrate and get cracking, I think getting immersed in Iron Claws or another project without Covid-19 content would be really beneficial. And I also feel like maybe it's more helpful to serve up to readers right now. Meh, I'm just rambling.
  That and the whole theme for this story is them spending time with each other. I'd say they're having a lot of sex, like 2-3 times a day at least, and Justin is definitely enjoying bringing out Clay's horndog side!
Nice! They're really getting the perks of their privacy, relationship, and general randiness!I did realize that the Rocky Road in question was a non-ice cream variant! I guess the ice cream thing just popped in my head -- but absolutely you're right, in hard squares of chocolate the marshmallows work much better! Sounds like a really fun childhood experience to draw from too, especially with homemade molds to pour it into!I hadn't thought of that with regard to Easter meals being cancelled in the chow hall. Sorry to hear that. At least you got some solid gaming time in though! And of course managed these updates!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 10
            Thu 16
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 03:12AM +07 
        I did, it felt right with the abrupt uptick in their physical relationship. But it's only Mature, I'm still going to do a smut version of this series later, so I'll keep things more inferred here. Really? You get those warnings? I can't remember the last time I got a warning preference, weird!That makes sense, I think most people are divided into those who want to escape the horror of what's happening and those who want to know every little detail about the pandemic.  It can be difficult trying to straddle those two extremes and I can agree with you on just how difficult it is to try and continue your writing schedule as normal. Eternity has been the real problem child as I'm about to launch into the next arc properly in the next week or two and it's one of those "it'll get worse before it gets better" story arcs. Maybe people need more optimism right now. The other two, Carpe Diem, and the Maypole just need time. I'll give the latter my weekend and the former I'm hoping to tackle tomorrow or Friday in terms of planning the next chapter.I'd be interested in seeing what you'd come up with for a pandemic inspired story though, I felt in a lot of ways your Survive and Thrive Thiam story had a lot of those post apocalyptic vibes to it. With the mystery of how they got there and with no one else other than their benefactor being around.Incidentally, I did have an idea this morning...while I was following along Tom Daley's butt workout, which I'm sure had nothing to do with the idea :P But, uh, I'll pitch it to you and if you want to run with it, go for it! If not, I'll probably get to it in the summer. So, it's primarily based around Nolan, with Gabe later, but honestly, Gabe could be swapped out for any other guy! I'm drawing a lot of inspiration from your version of Nolan's family life, or lack thereof. It starts off with Nolan getting a call from his Dad saying he's in Beijing, there's talk of a lockdown, he's going to be there a while, maybe a month or longer. Nolan is worried at first, but then after he hangs up he realizes that he's going to have his house all to himself- more than usual. He thinks about throwing a party, like all teenagers are supposed to, but then remembers he doesn't really have any friends and he's not really one for being in the center of attention. But if he's alone for four weeks...and everyone else is going to be locked down too, that means he won't have visitors, there won't be anyone to, for example, spy on his mail or his packages. So, Nolan decides that since he's still a virgin he should prepare for the day he's not going to be-or some similar motivation. And he orders a couple of sex toys online; maybe two sizes of butt plugs, a dildo, and a big pornstar size carton of lube. He's 18 so it's legal, it's just not something he wants anyone to find out about. I'm thinking that the first chapter opens with him reflecting on all that while looking at the freshly arrived box from Amazon or whoever he bought it from. Then he opens it up and is introduced to a world of pleasure unlike anything he's experienced before. The second chapter opens in much the same way, except this new box has different toys; a prostate massager, maybe a vibrator, anal beads, and he enjoys that even more than before. Third chapter then is him outside, in the back yard, on a deck chair, dildo in his ass, fleshjack/cloned ass on his cock, maybe he's trying out some nipple clamps, and just enjoying sunbathing and getting off. That's when Gabe arrives to check on his friend, willing to talk from the 6 feet etc. He doesn't get an answer from the front door and instead goes around the back, approaching Nolan from behind. He sees what's going on, gets hard, go full terrible porn logic and shows off his big dick to Nolan. Nolan is surprised, but Gabe is eager and well, social distancing be damned! (That's going to be a weird warning to issue at the start of the chapter, lol!) From there, it treads the familiar ground of them hooking up, except since Nolan is alone at home, they do it everywhere, every room, every surface, in the pool, in the back garden, on the deck chair, on the hood of Nolan's car! I have this incredible image of Nolan naked on his back on the dining room table-this big, dark wooden slab-his feet planted on the edge, toes curled around it for grip and then Gabe pulls him close and just eats him out on the table!There wouldn't be much dialogue, except I think I'd have Nolan talk to himself since he seems like the sort of odd fish to just talk aloud to himself and have these verbal arguments in that big empty house. And I like Nolan for this more than the others because it fits his personality, but also because he's crazy hot and I haven't read any good stories with him other than yours.But, uh, yeah, there it is... That was a lot, huh? Maybe it perked up your midweek work day ;P Regardless of who ends up writing it, I'd be interested in throwing the idea around a bit more.My goal for this evening before I go to work is to make rocky road (no ice-cream), lol. It shouldn't take too long!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 10
            Mon 20
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 10:04AM +07 
  Really? You get those warnings? I can't remember the last time I got a warning preference, weird!
Yep, but it's really only when I happen to get logged out/not be logged in, and since I might potentially read something from my phone, a couple different computers, and a couple different browsers on those computers, it's pretty common for me not to happen to be logged in/for a session to have expired :P
  Eternity has been the real problem child as I'm about to launch into the next arc properly in the next week or two and it's one of those "it'll get worse before it gets better" story arcs. Maybe people need more optimism right now.
Ah, yeah, I can relate to that a good bit with Iron Claws since what happened to Mason and Ethan in recent chapters is just a prelude to the horrors Isaac and the pack will be facing coming up...and you're right now it feels like perhaps I ought to be putting out more positive/optimistic content. It looks like you overcame your temporary block with Eternity though and I see a new chapter recently came out! Glad to see that! I need to have a good long reading binge soon!Ahh, that's interesting that Survive and Thrive has those post-apocalyptic vibes. I can see it now that you've mentioned it, but I hadn't considered that before! Wow, that smut scenario with Nolan is smoking hot! I did a Valentine's Day Glee Niff (Nick/Jeff - two Warblers who were named but never had actual storylinese) smut fic one time with the premise being Nick and Jeff were a tame couple and Nick had ordered stuff like candles and scented bath salts while his roommate Sebastian had ordered a box of sex toys for his weekend with Sam (Sam/Sebastian was my favorite ship), but of course the packages got switched and Nick and Jeff had to make do with vibrating butt plugs and Fleshlights! Anyway, it was a fun one to write, and I'd definitely enjoy tackling another fic with a character discovering the joys of sex toys via online ordering!Actually, last week's episode of Last Week Tonight with John Oliver featured a clip with an Amazon worker complaining about having to package and ship people's dildos during the pandemic, and John Oliver then pointing out that if it makes it easier for people to stay home and self isolate, dildos could be considered essential! But anyway, my thought was that Nolan could get the inspiration for ordering the sex toys by hearing that and convincing himself it's the noble, heroic thing to do! :PI think if I did the fic, I might change it to Corey instead of Gabe who finds him and joins him, my thinking being that since Corey is a chimera he's immune to the virus and so he's doing his part by being a front line delivery worker. Well that, and of course I always love the Nolan/Corey ship. I'd really enjoy reading your Golan take on it though! 
   I have this incredible image of Nolan naked on his back on the dining room table-this big, dark wooden slab-his feet planted on the edge, toes curled around it for grip and then Gabe pulls him close and just eats him out on the table!
Wow! That is quite the image! As far as other ideas, I was also thinking a fun addition could be that not only is Nolan's dad overseas, but perhaps Nolan is also checking out Grindr or something for the first time and really eager to have his first experience, and maybe he's talking to this hot guy whose dick he just can't wait to climb on but they've been going back and forth all week, finally decide to do it the next day, so Nolan's all excited and messages the guy as soon as he wakes up, only to get the news back that, "Dude, we're under lockdown. We gotta cancel." I haven't written smut in quite awhile though, and realistically I know it'll take forever for me to actually tackle it, so you should totally go for it! I'll let you know if I feel inspired to give it a go in the next couple weeks. Heck, it could be really fun if we both ended up writing our own versions, and I bet readers would get a kick out of that! Also, Nolan in nipple clamps, sunbathing on a deck chair with a dildo in his ass would be quite the setpiece and the perfect scene for Gabe, Corey, or whoever to walk in on! (And Froy certainly has very sexy nipples and a great chest!)How'd the Rocky Road come out? Sounds yummy! I hope you had a great weekend!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 11
            Wed 15
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 06:30AM +07 
        This chapter was really packed with emotion!I'm glad to see Clay and Justin got to enjoy their quality one-on-one time with everyone else out. Sounds like their secret relationship is getting harder for them to keep secret though. Also, is this a typo?
  Justin sipping coffee and looking at the birds as they flitted and flew across the lawn to peak at the nuts in the birdfeeders hanging from the sturdy branches of an ash tree.
I was thinking perhaps it should be peck, or a bit less likely, peek.Daww and this part in particular was so sweet:
  Justin was looking forward to spending the entire day with Clay all to himself. Happiness surged through the center of his chest as he smiled over at Clay.
LOL @ Justin devoring the chocolate croissants and then going for those Easter Eggs!And dawww again at Clay saying he'll always take care of Justin.
  “Let’s get set up, huh? There’s plenty of movies we can watch today other than the traditional one.”
Err, maybe I'm being super dense, but what's the traditional Easter movie? 
  It was hot in the coach house, but they didn’t put on the aircon, using the extra warmth as an excuse to strip down to just underwear, Justin in his well-fitted trunks, Clay a little more self-conscious in his boxers. 
That certainly paints quite the picture! It's no wonder things heated up from there!Haha, awww, and Clay was right about Justin's over-indulging catching up to him!Then things took quite the emotionally intense turn with Clay wishing he'd gotten involved and helped Justin sooner and Justin emphasizing that Clay's his shining light and how much he means to him! As I said, I suspect they'll have more and more trouble keeping their relationship secret as things get more serious, but it's lovely that they got to spend this special day with each other!Really great holiday installment! And I'm eager to see how things go with that potential summer road trip in a few months!I hope you're doing well and keeping your spirits (and health!) up throughout all this on-going pandemic mess. I've been kind of dragging today. My cat, the same one who had the iris melanoma last fall, has been diagnosed with a sarcoma on one of her hind paws. The oncologist confirmed the cancer hadn't spread though, and the surgeon is optimistic it can be removed without the need to amputate her leg -- but it's not a sure thing and it's gotten me down a bit and worried. Of course I know the situation could be a lot worse, both for her and her prognosis and just in general, especially with the way the state of the world is right now. Anyway, reading about Clay and Justin's Easter hijinks was certainly a good escape :)
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Thu 16
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 02:36AM +07 
        Thanks for commenting! I really wasn't expecting it since it was a work day, but great to hear your thoughts. Have you watched the series yet? I imagine it probably isn't as powerful, but I'm glad to hear that at least the chapter had that emotional edge to it. Originally I hadn't planned for it to turn out like that, but it did feel somewhat natural that they'd have that first day alone be very sexual while the second day is more "normal" and less about celebrating their freedom, haha. Yeah, I'd say it's more of an open secret and everyone is just waiting for them to come out about it. Or rather, waiting for Clay to say something. Given all the other issues that this group of friends and aquaintances have had to deal with, Clay and Justin hooking up is really no big deal.Yes, that's definitely a typo XD Strange thing is, I remember writing it and thinking that I had spelt it incorrectly, looked back at it and went "Oh no, it's fine." I must have been thinking about something else completely, lol. But thanks for pointing that out, glad the rest was ok, I didn't have much time to write on Monday.The traditional film that Clay is referring to there is Chitty Chitty Bang Bang which he revealed in the first chapter of the update to be the film he and his Dad would watch every Easter. But, no, I'm not aware of any Easter movie that's widely watched. I probably should have made that part clearer.I like how they're now so comfortable with each other that they can just be naked around in each and not immediately (a) have sex or (b) hop into bed. Yeah, I think they're ready to stretch their wings a little and travel for a bit. I'm thinking beach days and restaurants on the coast, maybe even turn it into a camping trip? It'd honestly be a welcome distraction if we're still social distancing in June and can't actually go to the beach :DIt's tough right now, not just hearing about it every day, but also losing out on a lot of the community that I'm used to being a part of. We can workout outside, but the gyms are closed, even on base, shopping feels like going into the post apocalypse half the time. Although, having said that, British Olympic diver-and total thirst trap-Tom Daley has been releasing near daily home workout videos which are actually pretty good. Plus, he's wearing sneakers and exercise shorts and absolutely nothing else :P I know the CDC guidance is for everyone to wear a face mask or covering when going outside, but the DoD made it required for all Defense installations (except the interior of dwellings) so, we're now doing work in non-surgical masks, adapted scarves, even a few ski masks. But god damn is it hot! (And not in the good way) I don't know how medical personnel wear these without dripping with sweat. The only comparable experience I've had was when we completed a 12 hour field excercise in our MOPP gear. That's Mission Oriented Protective Posture, which doesn't really make sense to the lay person, lol. But basically that's the gas mask, your carrier for extra filters, manual, spare parts, chemical testing slips, nerve agent antidote, then the outer garment, boots, and gloves (the JSLIST). You see the outfit on TV and the movies sometimes. 12 hours in a field tent in the middle of summer trying to conduct regular operations in the middle of a (pretend) chemical attack by aggressive forces... Yeah, at least we're not that bad yet :POh man, that sucks about your cat! I'm impressed that the vets are still open though, that's good that he thinks he can remove it and leave her intact. Is she particularly old? I imagine it would be very puzzling for an animal to lose a limb and all their mobility, but like you said it sounds like your vet knows what they're doing and are confident about it. I hope she pulls through!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 11
            Mon 20
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 08:39AM +07 
        Nope, I still haven't watched the series yet. It's on my list though! I see what you mean about their first day being very sexual while the second day is more "normal" and they've calmed down a bit. That does seem very natural. LOL, ah yeah, I see what you mean. After everything else that's been going on around them, I see how a couple of their friends being gay and hooking up wouldn't be super earth-shattering! I always felt like that was part of the reason there wasn't too much relationship drama on Teen Wolf too. I think everything else they went through put things into perspective. I know what you mean about typos. The way I write, I often sit idly for awhile trying to figure out exactly how I want to phrase something in my head, then write in a mad burst at top typing speed, and sometimes I'll make a typo and notice it, and mean to go back and correct it, but it's sort of only occupying like 10% of my attention as I'm planning the next sentence, and if I work out that next one too quickly it's easy to not quite get around to fixing the error!Ohhh, I see what you mean. Traditional to Clay (and his dad) versus being traditional to everyone. I don't know why that didn't click! Yeah, that level of comfort really comes through and seem like a substantial milestone in the relationship. Beach days and restaurants on the coast sounds so delightful for their summer trip! Personally I'm not really one for camping or going out into the woods, but spending time on the coast -- especially with restaurants and amenities nearby -- is always a treat! It would be a delightful distraction for sure if things are still mostly locked down come June!That loss of community must be one of the hardest parts. I don't know how feasible it would be, but I was thinking maybe if the base was on a tight lockdown you could all sort of in effect be social distancing together, since no one new would be going in or out...but then again I'm sure it's often necessary for some people to go in and out. We've mostly been having our groceries delivered -- so fortunate to be in a place and situation where that's possible -- but the few times we have gone shopping ourselves definitely does have that almost post-apocolyptic feel to it.  
  Although, having said that, British Olympic diver-and total thirst trap-Tom Daley has been releasing near daily home workout videos which are actually pretty good. Plus, he's wearing sneakers and exercise shorts and absolutely nothing else :P
Ahh yes! A friend of mine is a big fan of Tom Daley's workout routines and has been sharing the highlights in our group thread! LOL, Tom certainly does know how to get the blood pumping! :P
  so, we're now doing work in non-surgical masks, adapted scarves, even a few ski masks. But god damn is it hot! (And not in the good way) 
Ha! It's actually a good thing you clarified because my first thought when I read that was, "Wait, the guys in ski masks are doing it for you?" Certainly an unexpected kink, but I guess it could fit somewhere on the furry/mascot spectrum!Oh damn though, that does sound absolutely sweltering! Heat exhaustion must be a big concern with field exercises like that. Thanks, yeah, I feel fortunate that we've had access to such good veterinary care for her. She is fairly old -- she'll be sixteen in June. I've had her since college. I got her right after I moved out of the apartment I was sharing with roommates and got my own place. I just gave her her last meal of the night and now she has to fast until I drop her off tomorrow for the surgery. Thanks for the well wishes!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Mon 27
                                                 Apr 2020
                                                 03:27AM +07 
        I can't believe it's been a week since this reply, April is just whipping by and this last week has felt so busy I haven't really had time to do anything after work other than fall asleep, haha. I'm sure you can relate to that with all the extra hours you put in!That's such a good point about the lack of relationship drama on Teen Wolf. I felt like any other show would have made a massive storyline/subplot about Scott and Malia getting together when Malia had been with Stiles before hand. Here, it's just like, Meh, I'm happy for ya, but can we deal with this otherworldly horror now?! I think in the 13 Reasons Why universe there would be some surprise that Justin and Clay are together and there would likely be some negativity out there considering some of the other plotlines, but in the grand scheme of the secrets they keep about each other, this doesn't even register.Haha, I usually don't notice typos and grammar issues until I read through the chapter afterwards. Although some times I get caught up in the moment and my brain autocorrects for me, lol. I think I just get lost in the flow of what I'm writing and I try not to stop unless I'm at a natural paragraph break otherwise I'll lose my train of thought. It's been the biggest challenge of continuing to write during the pandemic; I start off, all going well, then get an alert, or start thinking about the real world and then I'm outta the zone. It's super frustrating.Yeah, I'm thinking that they'll probably stay more coastal and maybe AirBnB it rather than go camping. Clay is 18, and Justin will be 18 "soon", so I'm thinking that Clay's parents give him cash for his birthday with a not subtle nod that they go on a short vacation with it. Any romantic notions of camping I have lost through my career, lol, too many nights in uncomfortable-but waterproof-camo  in the desert, in the forest, in the mud...yeah, I'm ready for them to have some fun and luxury!Well, the Pentagon last week extended the movement freeze until the 30th of June so even if the rest of the country "reopens" , we'll be restricted to base and the local area. As much as that's irritating, it's also kinda telling. I mean, at least they're doing what they think is in the force's best interest and aren't being swayed by politics or some ludicrous idea that people should sacrifice themselves for the economy :POh for sure, the base is in lockdown; only active duty soldiers inside the main buildings, family members and contractors have limited access, and the exchange is still open so groceries and clothes and, well, everything, is available. I have been finding ways to connect with people-from a safe distance! And you're a lot safer outside than indoors so I see a lot more families and soldiers out running, jogging, walking, that sort of thing. Ah, that's good to hear that you have a delivery option, and don't have to expose yourself to that level of danger. Although, I understand that Texas is "reopening" this week? It'll be interesting to see if people do go back to work despite the risk and if we're going to have that second wave. In any case, I hope you're still going strong and your husband still has his job!Haha, now that would be quite the kink!Yeah, it's been a long week, and even though I'm more used to the masks now, it's still such an ordeal to go through every, err, night before work. Those suits are hot, but it's more about trying to continue your normal activities when you're wearing thick rubbery gloves and have a limited field of view; you have to figure out how to shoot effectively, how to type (nightmare!), how to get the damn things off at the end of the day!Wow, that's an old cat! She certainly has a long history with you though, that must mean a lot. I really hope she's ok and there were no complications! Err, I just realized that was last week! Sorry, I should have checked in sooner!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    TVTime
              on Chapter 11
            Sun 03
                                                 May 2020
                                                 05:51AM +07 
        Oh yeah, I can definitely relate to being so tired you don't have the energy for anything after work but a quick bite to eat and falling asleep! Sorry to hear it's been so busy for you though, and I hope things are settling down a bit. You're right: April was just here and gone in a flash! On the bright side though, we got the new contracts we needed at work to keep our revenue and cashflow up, so that's a big load off my mind! Haha, now back to the day-to-day grind :PYeah exactly on the (lack of) drama about Scott and Malia getting together. Although of course, Stiles and Malia's breakup was pretty lowkey so I'm sure that helped too. As I believe we've discussed in the past, I didn't even realize it had officially happened at all until you said you took that scene in Stiles' Jeep between them in season 5 to be the end. 
  It's been the biggest challenge of continuing to write during the pandemic; I start off, all going well, then get an alert, or start thinking about the real world and then I'm outta the zone. It's super frustrating.
That's exactly how I feel. Although based on our output you're definitely better at powering through it and keeping your productivity up! I saw you just posted Stiles Stilinski and the Cursed Maypole! Reading that is my next top after finishing up this comment! Can't wait to check it out!That sounds like such a fun adventure for them! And based on the timing it sounds like it could almost be like their version of a "senior trip." LOL, is that even still a thing these days? I realize I never hear about them anymore! But basically where after graduation everyone goes on a trip, independent of the school, just privately arranged. We all went to Florida for about a week the year I graduated. My senior class was roughly about 130 people, and I'd say at least 100+ of us went, so pretty good turnout! Some people did opt for private trips with their significant others or a couple close friends though, so it would definitely seem to make sense for Clay and Justin to do that! Ah yeah, I can see how camping would have lost it's romantic appeal for you! A movement freeze until the 30th of June does sound like it would be both prudent yet frustrating. That's a good point though about it being indicative of them doing what they think is best for the force and not being swayed by politics. 
  or some ludicrous idea that people should sacrifice themselves for the economy :P
Yeah...our lieutenant governor in Texas did go rather viral (err, no pun intended!) for suggesting just that. The state is now in the process of a staggered, gradual re-opening. Personally though, we're not going to change our behavior accordingly. My husband won't be going back to work until May 20th, and of course I'll still be at home anyway. Glad to hear you're still finding ways to connect with people even from a social distance! And that's a great point about being safer outdoors. LOL, actually I believe a lot of restaurants around here are opening their outdoor patio areas first as they start ramping back up. Yikes! Trying to type in those gloves must be super tough. I didn't realize you'd have to do that! I guess I was just thinking they'd disinfect the keyboards before everyone's shifts and then only that one person would use them until they were done. LOL, this might make 2020 the year of typos then! So regarding my cat, unfortunately they did need to do the leg amputation. The surgeon called the morning her less invasive surgery would have taken place and said that the final CT scans showed that the tumor was deeper than anticipated, and that removing it would require taking so much muscle tissue that she would likely lose use of the leg anyway, and then there would be a higher risk of the cancer coming back if they hadn't gotten it all. So we had another consultation the next day to be sure and to visit her again before the surgery, then she went ahead with it. Her recovery is going well though! I was expecting her to be very out of it for a couple days and to be too weak and sore to do anything but lay around, but instead she was dragging herself around from day one and very eager to get back into her regular routine as much as possible. She had to wear one of those had cones for a couple weeks to keep her from grooming the area, but yesterday we took her in for her follow-up and they removed the staples and said she didn't have to wear the cone anymore. She's gotten to the point where she can move around fairly steadily for several steps at a time and even kind of "scurry" short distances -- like if we're coming with her medicine and she wants to hide, lol. So all in all it's going pretty well despite the setback. Anyway, I hope your weekend is off to a good start! Time to go check out Stiles Stilinski and the Cursed Maypole!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Windofstrategy
              on Chapter 11
            Thu 21
                                                 May 2020
                                                 06:44AM +07 
        This has been absolutely adorable.  I have enjoyed this entire ride and I would love whatever comes next ^_^
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Sat 23
                                                 May 2020
                                                 04:23AM +07 
        Thank you! I figured they need some no-stress hotness for themselves for once! I'll probably keep on with the summer update, but I'm tentatively thinking about a season 4 adaptation-in a whole new story-after the trailer dropped this week. But thanks for your comment on this story!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Angel2912
              on Chapter 11
            Wed 30
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 03:27AM +07 
        hiI just read this story and i really like it. I hope you will finish this story.  It is good, but its still needs an end en ofcourse some smut.....Would love to read more 💛
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Wed 30
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 05:09AM +07 
        Thanks for checking this out and leaving a comment! I still haven't watched the final season-been putting it off for a while as I just don't want things to be over.  As for this story, I do have more to write for them; Covid kinda disrupted my plans in terms of allocating time for the story. I am planning to do a Christmas special with Clay and Justin, likely stand alone from this story. But thanks for expressing an interest in seeing a continuation here!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Angel2912
              on Chapter 11
            Wed 30
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 09:45PM +07 
        yes please continue this one. It needs to be finished. Like coming out. And the smut you promised 🤣❤
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 04:14AM +07 
        Yeah, I'll continue with it later in the year, probably November sometime. I'm pretty busy with work right now and I have a full schedule of other stories to write and update. But thanks for your interest.
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
              Neptune
              on Chapter 11
            Wed 30
                                                 Sep 2020
                                                 01:45PM +07 
        Hello I also like this story as I stumbled across it. Iam a big Justin/Clay fan. As in the boys being together.I just read that you haven't seen season 4 yet. Although the story is great, but it broke my heart alott.Story's like this make me feel a lott better. Thats why I think you should finish this story. I think you can heel a lott of people. I think a Clustin storyline in the show would have been much better. They could have a very very very big hit. So I cross my fingers you will finish y his one. Sure as hell I need it. Xx
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
                    Uthizaar
              on Chapter 11
            Fri 02
                                                 Oct 2020
                                                 04:17AM +07 
        Thanks for checking this story out and I'm glad that you like it. I wrote it mainly because the series is so full of drama and misery and I just wanted them to have some moments on their own. I'll have some free time in November to give to this story and I'll probably update it then. Thanks for commenting and expressing your interest though!
      Comment Actions
    Reply
    Thread
        Parent Thread
      Pages Navigation← Previous 1 2 Next →
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
