      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
  Skip header
Actions
    Chapter by Chapter
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               F/MM/M
              Fandom:
               Teen Wolf (TV)
              Relationships:
               Peter Hale/Stiles StilinskiChris Argent/Peter HaleChris Argent/Peter Hale/Stiles StilinskiChris Argent/Stiles Stilinski
              Characters:
               Chris ArgentPeter HaleDerek HaleStiles StilinskiScott McCall (Teen Wolf)Jackson WhittemoreErica ReyesVernon BoydKira YukimuraIsaac LaheyLiam Dunbar
              Additional Tags:
               Bad Alpha Scott McCall (Teen Wolf)Spark Stiles StilinskiWolf Stiles StilinskiFull Shift WerewolvesAlternate UniverseAlternate Universe - Canon DivergenceFanartKanima Jackson WhittemoreBanshee Lydia Martin
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-10-07Updated:2020-10-10Words:5178Chapters:4/?Comments:99Kudos:189Bookmarks:47Hits:1948
      SparkWolf
      skargasm
          Summary:
              Stiles is bitten by a rogue alpha whilst out patrolling alone as Scott has bailed on him. Somehow, something has gone wrong with the bite and Stiles isn’t reacting in the normal manner. Frightened and alone, he runs and hides from the Pack.
Will anyone within the Pack be able to find him and help him regain control of himself?
  Notes:
      For Afrieal.
      Yeah, it's that time again!! 
I have a fic ready and waiting to post for Spook-Me, but I'm not allowed to post that until October 26th, so in the meantime, here's a new WiP, courtesy of Tummysassandass. Using prompts from ficlets (100 - 1000 words) and inspiring tables, welcome to yet another weird ride with Skar!
    (See the end of the work for more notes.)
      Chapter 1: Come, break me down - bury me, bury me
    Chapter Text
Even running full pelt, Stiles knew he couldn’t outrun it. Leaves and branches slashed at his face as he ran, but he did his best to ignore the numerous scratches and marks being inflicted on his body. He could sort them out later – if he survived.His knowledge of the Preserve stood him in good stead, preventing the chasing wolf from catching him too easily but he knew that his luck wouldn’t hold – couldn’t hold. If Scott had been here, things might have been different. If Stiles hadn’t decided to patrol even after his best friend bailed on him, he wouldn’t be in this position. If he’d brought something more with him other than his knife and some mountain ash, he might have been able to turn and fight.What ifs. No point thinking about them now. Now he needed to get somewhere that he could hide and use his cell to call for back-up. The other members of the Pack were also out and about, trying to track down what they thought was just an omega wolf invading the territory. A fallen log caught his foot and he stumbled, falling into a clearing. The Nemeton. Damned thing was always somewhere different – never where you expected – almost never where or when you needed it. He tried to regain his footing, but ended up splayed on the ground near the growing stump of the Nemeton. He rolled to his back in time to see the wolf clear the trees, its eyes glinting red in the dullness of the moonlight coming through the trees. Shit – they hadn’t realised it was an Alpha. Damning Scott in his mind one last time, Stiles fumbled for his blade, determined to give this thing a fight.  The beast growled at him, fangs long, curved and menacing, claws extended. With a swiftness that he should have expected from his experience with wolves, it leapt at him, teeth sinking into his shoulder. He screamed at the pain, jabbing at the heavy body on top of him as agony sliced through his body. It grunted, rearing back from his blade, then slashed at his hand. He managed to hold onto the knife stabbing upwards, the spelled silver weapon sinking in with difficulty. The wolf roared, falling off of Stiles and clutching at it’s chest. The wolfs-bane could clearly be seen racing towards its heart and Stiles dragged himself away from the writhing form, tears falling down his face from the pain running rampant through his body.He tried to get to his feet, stunned when he couldn’t maintain his balance. How bad was the damage? He looked over his shoulder at the body of the wolf, wary that it would continue its attack. He was relieved to see that it was losing its fight against the wolfs-bane, but that didn’t help him – not at the moment. Blood was oozing sluggishly from the wound on his shoulder and he stumbled again, realising that he could no longer feel his legs. Shakily putting his hand to his shoulder, all he could feel was wetness, ripped fabric and ragged flesh.  He tried to pull away his hoody and shirt to see the damage, but his eyesight was failing him. It wasn’t that dark – why couldn’t he see more clearly?His chest was heaving as he struggled to breathe, his body shaking as he lay next to the Nemeton, the roots uncomfortable underneath his back. Determined he wasn’t going to die here, next to the body of the werewolf that had bitten him, he used the stump to pull himself to his feet, staggering away. Stumbling, staggering, he made his way around the stump, trying to remember if it had always been so large. It felt huge, unfeasibly big – he had walked so far but was still able to see the Alpha trying to get to its feet. Fighting to breath, he fell again, tumbling through the ground until he came to rest in a heap. The cave or whatever it was dark and warm, no light coming from where he had fallen inside. He realised he must be beneath the Nemeton, but it wasn’t the cave used by Julia Baccari – he had never seen this place before. He couldn’t decide whether he should try to get out again or hide from the Alpha where he was. Feeling his shoulder again, he realised that he might not have a choice. The blood wouldn’t stop, his right arm hanging uselessly by his side. Dragging himself further into the cave – choosing the safety of the cave over possibly facing the alpha again, he pulled himself up against the wall into a sitting position. He managed to pull out his cell, and with shaking fingers he tried to write a message to the Pack’s group.
  Alpha. Bitten. Nemeton
Writing the three words took all of his energy and he gave a tired laugh. He had never thought that this would be how he died. He had always imagined it would be an epic battle with his Pack by his side. Instead he was alone – no one knew where he was – no one was coming to save him.His last thought was that the Nemeton might accept his death as a good sacrifice.
“What do you mean, you weren’t with him?” Peter shouted at Scott, his incredulity shared by the other Pack members.“I had to bail – something came up,” Scott replied, at least having the decency to look shame-faced.“Scott – we agreed to buddy up so that no one was facing this thing alone. What the hell could have come up that justified you leaving Stiles alone?” Derek was obviously trying not to sound accusing, but was failing abysmally.“That doesn’t matter now – we need to find Stiles,” Scott replied, refusing to meet anyone’s gaze.Tight-lipped, Peter nodded and turned to Chris, gesturing to his backpack. “Do you have the map we were using to give everyone their search assignments?”“Yeah – here.”“We start looking – now.”
      Chapter 2
    Chapter Text
Awake.Aware.Afraid.Disentangling itself from the bundle of rags imprisoning it, it made its way carefully through the underground cave until it found a back way out. It didn’t want to go through the main entrance – even if it was concealed, it could be found – by the chosen few. Better to go out this way – hide until it was sure the noises outside came from allies. The dampness of ground underfoot, the last of the moon lighting the way, the scent of the Preserve filling its mind as it began running through its territory. It would return.”Wait – I smell blood!”“There!” Derek rushed forward, coming to a halt at the body of a werewolf. “It’s alive.”“Good – then I can kill it!” snarled Peter, stepping forwards. He dragged the wolf to a sitting position, noting the wounds bleeding sluggishly on its torso. The smell of wolfs-bane was strong, and it was obvious the wolf was dying. “Who did this to you?”“This is Stiles’ knife!” Chris exclaimed, coming to stand next to Peter holding the silver blade. “It’s etched with runes and infused with mountain ash – I would hazard a guess that it caused those wounds which is why they’re not healing.”“No shit,” Peter growled, shaking his captive roughly until Chris put his hand on his arm, stilling his motions. “We need him alive to help find Stiles.” The wolf gave a pained laugh, coughing. “Speak and we might make this easier on you.” It transformed slowly, taking the form of a grizzled looking man in his late forties. “Huh, make it easier on me – I don’t think so somehow.” He coughed again, blood spraying from his lips. “I know I’m done for – boy struck true.”“The boy – what did you do?”Sporadically coughing, the dying werewolf replied. “What we all do when faced with such a delicious morsel – took a big juicy bite, didn’t I?! Funny – wonder if he’ll turn into an alpha? Wonder if he’ll turn.” He looked between Chris and Peter. “Or even worse – for you – I wonder if he’ll turn at all. Can’t smell or sense him at all – maybe he dragged himself away to die!”The spray of blood splattering his face took Peter by surprise, staring up at Chris in shock. The other man was holding the blade in front of him as though it had acted independently. His aim had been excellent – he had almost decapitated the wolf with the anger behind his surgical strike, the near headless body slumping from Peter’s hands to the ground, the blood seeping into the roots of the tree stump.“What the fuck, Chris?!”“I’m sorry – I – it was him talking about Stiles dying – “ Peter nodded his agreement, turning to face the rest of the Pack who had been watching dumbfounded. “You heard him – whoever he was. He bit Stiles, which means he’s scared, injured, and in need of medical assistance. We have no way of knowing how he’ll react to the bite – Deaton hasn’t answered my message as yet.” Peter stood up, wiping his bloody hands down the front of his jeans. “Be careful when you find him – he may not react well depending on how far along he is.”“I didn’t attack anyone when I was first bitten – in fact, it took Stiles to tell me that I’d changed!” Scott protested, crying out when Jackson punched him in the face and knocked him backwards. He pushed up close to Jackson, fists clenched. “What the hell was that for?”“Because this is your fault, you fucking useless bastard! I don’t even like Stiles and I wouldn’t have let him go out and face this alone and you were – ““Fuck off, Jackson! You’ve hated Stiles since he figured out the way to control your kanima and – ““Which proves he’s a helluva a lot more use to us than you are, McCall!” Before things could degenerate into a full brawl, Peter shouted at them.“Enough! You can compare dick sizes once we’ve found Stiles! Spread out but stay in pairs – howl if you find anything. Clear?”“I don’t have to listen to you,” Scott muttered, scowling at Peter. Derek stepped forward and grabbed him by the shoulder, pushing him towards the right.“Shut the fuck up and come on, Scott,” Derek said, giving Peter an apologetic look over his shoulder.“But you’re the Alpha – why the hell are we listening to him?” “I won’t tell you again.” “Jackson, go with Isaac – Erica, Boyd – Kira I need you to get back to Lydia and let her know what’s going on, then go to the Sheriff. Stiles may try to go home. Chris and I will go this way,” Peter listed his instructions, pleased when no one else complained, just nodded and jogged off in the appropriate direction. “Chris – can you track him?”“I’m not sure – can’t you pick up his scent?”“The only thing I can smell here is the damned Nemeton – it’s like its blocking me somehow.”“This is the Nemeton?” Chris turned and stared at the tree stump with new eyes. “You couldn’t tell?”“Peter – what are you seeing?”“What do you mean?”“Until you told me it was the Nemeton, all I could see was an indistinct, old tree stump. As soon as you said that, it – changed – and now I can feel it’s power, tell where we are.” Peter frowned, moving forwards to touch the tree stump. A frisson of power pulsed through his fingertips, a sense of Stiles reaching him but not clear enough or lingering for him to grasp it fully.“I don’t – fuck, I hate magic!”“I’m with you on that,” Chris replied, staring at Peter. “Do you think the others realised?”“That this was the Nemeton? No – I don’t think they did. Derek didn’t react to it – as Alpha, I would have thought he would have had a clearer link but – we don’t have time for this now.” Peter looked around at the ground, trying to get a hint of Stiles’ potential direction. “This is his blood – it looks like he leant against the Nemeton. There should be blood splatter to follow, a clear scent to track, but it just – disappears. I don’t understand.”“Well it’s more of a start than we had – let’s go.” Frustrated, Peter followed Chris’s lead, looking into the darkness of the trees for any hint of Stiles.It circled back, watching from the darkness of the trees as the watched the wolf being despatched. A sense of justice at the death but not enough for it to move forward. They could still be the enemy. It didn’t like the scent of them all – there was disharmony, discord within their Pack. The Alpha said little, letting what must be the Pack’s Left Hands deal with the intruder. One held him, the other killed him. More words, then they split off until it was just the Left Hands by the entrance to his cave. They were so close – a few more steps and they would be able to find it. It whined beneath its breath, not sure whether it wanted them to find it or not. They moved away and it followed.
      Chapter 3: Loyalty Questioned
    Chapter Text
“Where the hell is my son?” Kira looked at Lydia, hoping she had something that would help the situation.
“Noah – “
“No! Look, Lydia, I have a lot of respect for you but I swear to God, if someone doesn’t tell me what’s going on, I’m going to – “
“Noah.” Derek’s voice from the doorway was a relief and Kira moved towards him, relieved to see that he looked unharmed. Not that there had been a danger of anything else – after all, they had killed the werewolf that had represented the threat to the territory. She jumped slightly when Derek pulled her into an embrace, embarrassed by her reaction to his closeness. 
She knew that to him, this was just pack comforting pack, but for her – for her, it was more. Not that she would do anything about it – she had no idea if Derek even found her attractive. She blushed, embarrassed and slightly ashamed that her mind had wandered to such things when Stiles was missing and possibly in danger. Now wasn’t the time.
Even so, she was pleased when Derek didn’t release her as he stepped further into the house, coming to a standstill in front of Noah’s wheelchair.
“I’m sorry. We’ve searched the entire Preserve, and so far no one has found him.”
“What does that even mean? There’s miles of land – “
“There is, but we should have been able to scent him – find something. We’re waiting to hear back from Peter and Chris, but the others have reported the same thing: there is zero sign of him.” Derek put his hand onto the man’s shoulder and Noah shrugged it off, using the electric controls on his wheelchair to jerkily move out of reach.
“If there’s no body, he could still be out there! Why have you stopped – “
“We haven’t stopped – we’re just resting and then we’re going back out there. I wanted to tell you in person what was going on. Stiles would want us to take care of you.”
“I don’t need taking care of!” Noah shouted, the tears falling down his cheeks belying his words. Derek pulled Kira closer, tucking her against his side, and she wondered if he even knew what he was doing. She avoided Lydia’s shrewd gaze, not wanting to admit that she was making the most of this opportunity: such contact with Derek didn’t normally last this long and she was savouring it. She justified it with the thought that she was providing him with comfort. “How the hell did this happen? When he left, he was meant to be meeting Scott – the plan was that you pair up to try to track the rogue!”
They all turned as Scott came into the kitchen, closing the door behind him. 
“He was meant to be meeting Scott,” Lydia confirmed, folding her arms across her chest. ”I’m not quite clear on what happened.”
“I – I had something I needed to do before meeting Stiles. I told him I’d be there later – he must have decided to go anyhow,” Scott said, his voice low.
“You mean you let him down – again! How many times does someone else have to pay for you ducking your responsibilities Scott?” Noah thundered, wheeling forward until he was directly in front of Scott. “Ever since you got bitten, Stiles has been there for you! Even after you killed that asshole and made the transition to Alpha – he has always been by your side! And you – you’ve been an asshole! I haven’t said anything because Stiles asked me not to but – the Hales didn’t have to accept you on the land, they didn’t have to take you into their Pack. You’ve done nothing but take advantage of their generosity, use your friends and act like an entitled asshole. If something has happened to my son because you let him down, I swear to God I will find a way to end you.” Despite how low his voice was, they were all completely convinced that Noah would follow through on his threat. Regardless of being in a wheelchair, he would find a way.
Ever since the Sheriff had been shot in a bungled robbery, the bullet lodging in his spine and ensuring that he would never walk again, his house had become Pack central. He played a heavy role in organising a lot of the Pack activities, he and Stiles working together on any plans that were needed to handle any supernatural incursions into the territory. He might be unable to walk, but the Sheriff was an integral part of the Pack and none of them wanted to let him down. 
Scott flinched away from his censure, not meeting his gaze. 
“Where the fuck were you when you should have been meeting Stiles?” Lydia’s voice was flat, her tone slightly menacing.
“I was – I was meeting someone.”
“Who?”
“A guy.”
“Makes a nice change,” Lydia said, referencing the fact that Scott seemed to spend a lot of his time chasing girls instead of being there for his Pack. “What for?”
“I don’t answer to you,” Scott said, eyes glinting red. Lydia stepped forward, facing him down until he lowered his eyes and head, accepting her dominance even though he was an alpha. They all knew the power Lydia wielded as a Banshee – she had worked hard on her training to ensure that she was as powerful as any of the wolves in the Pack. 
“Then you can answer to me,” Derek growled, allowing his eyes to turn red. Kira clutched as his waist, not holding him back but grounding him as his anger felt like it was burning through her, lighting up her powers in turn. “Who was this guy and why were you meeting him?”
“It’s got nothing to do with this! Why are you all turning on me instead of asking why Stiles still went out there alone? He didn’t have to – “
“He didn’t want to let us down – something you might consider since you don’t seem to have an issue being the one member of this Pack that we can’t rely on!” Derek shouted. “Now who was he and why were you meeting him?”
Scott tried to resist Derek, fists clenched at his side, eyes a dull red as his face began to transform. Lydia pushed out with her hands, knocking him backwards so that he slammed into the door and landed on the floor.
“Scott – “
“His name is Liam! And he’s – he’s someone I’ve been seeing!”
”We’re going round in circles,” Chris said, sitting with his back to the stump of the Nemeton. “Why do his tracks keep disappearing?”
Peter was stalking around the copse, using the last of the moonlight to guide his steps. There was something they were missing, he was sure of it.
“I don’t know! This makes no damned sense!” Scowling, he threw himself down next to Chris, dropping his head into his hands. “I can scent him – sometimes so closely, but then other times it just – goes. I’ve never known anything like this! We should have found something! If he was mauled further by an animal, dragged away – we should have been able to track that!”
“There’s no sign whatsoever that he was dragged away – he just seems to have disappeared.” Chris checked his cell before returning it to his pocket. “Derek is with the Sheriff now – he’s demanding to know what the hell is going on, where Stiles is. This makes no sense, Peter – in all my times hunting, I never heard of a body just disappearing.”
“Maybe it’s time to go back to the Pack, regroup and think.” Peter allowed his head to thunk back against the trunk of the Nemeton. “If something bad has happened to him, if he’s been – “
“Don’t say it – just – we’ll find him.” Chris’s hand landed on Peter’s arm and he covered it with his hand, taking solace in the company of Pack even whilst his thoughts were racing about what might have happened to Stiles. He couldn’t bear to think that he might be dead – that the bite hadn’t taken and he had crawled away and died alone.
There was a loud rustling nearby and they both jumped to their feet, Chris pulling out a gun whilst Peter’s claws extended. As they watched, they could see that there was a pair of eyes watching them from the darkness. Whatever it was, it was huge, the eyes level with Chris’s chest, a bright yellow staring right at them.
“Come out – we don’t intend to harm you,” Chris said, aiming his gun at the mass that was slowly becoming clearer as it moved closer. It came out of the trees, paws padding silently on the ground as it came into the clearing. 
The wolf was massive: broad, muscled chest, huge paws, eyes glowing with an intelligence that seemed eerily human. It stepped towards them cautiously, as if allowing them time to adjust to its presence, until it was standing directly in front of them.
It lifted its head and looked directly at them, a challenge and a plea within its eyes. It was Peter that spoke the thought that had occurred to both of them.
“Stiles?”
      Chapter 4: How can the love be so fake while the hate is so real?
    Chapter Text
    “I’m an ALPHA! They treat me like I’m nothing, like I should just follow along with – ““Scott – ““It wasn’t my fault Stiles decided to be a dumbass and go out there alone! I mean – yeah, I said I would meet him but – ““Scott – ““What, Liam?” Liam cowered backwards, instinctively unhappy that he had upset his alpha. “I – I’m sorry I lost control earlier. I just – I got so angry! But you said – you said it would get better, that I could be part of your Pack.”“And you will be – we’re just starting to build a Pack, Liam. You’re going to be fine – I’ll take care of you,” Scott replied, putting his hand on Liam’s arm. The touch immediately grounded the younger boy, and he relaxed into the touch,“Stiles is – is he dead?” he asked. “I don’t know. I need to find him – talk to him. He’ll understand what happened.”“And he’s going to be in our Pack, right? That was what you said – that with Stiles on our side we could set things right.” “Yeah, that’s right. The Hales left for a long time – why they think they can come back and take over just doesn’t seem fair. Okay, so I needed their help when I was first bitten but I’m an alpha now – they should just back off,” Scott complained, walking away from Liam. “But you said the territory was theirs’ – ““It was theirs but now it should rightfully be ours! I need to think, plan our next move.” Turning back to Liam, he flashed his red eyes. “You need to lay low – they know I was with someone tonight and I don’t want them scenting you and realising what’s happened.”“Are you ashamed of me?” Liam asked timidly.“NO! I just don’t want them ruining things! Lydia, Kira, Isaac – they will all be in our Pack. They just need to see that the Hales aren’t the only choice in Beacon Hills.”“Okay, okay. I gotta go – my parents’ have said if they catch me sneaking out again I’m gonna be grounded for the rest of my life.” Liam sighed, feeling his face return to normal for the first time since he and Scott had met in the old rail car. “It’s so hard listening to them when I’m strong, so much more powerful – if they knew – ““NO! Liam, they can’t know, okay? You don’t tell anyone! That’s an order from your alpha and you have to obey them, okay? Listen, I’ll teach you more – I was going to get my hands on some of the Hale’s books but then everything went wrong tonight because Stiles went out alone.” Scott raked his hands through his hair and Liam could sense his alpha’s agitation, riling him up until he was digging his claws into the palms of his hands trying to retain control. “I’ll find Stiles and I’ll fix this – get it all back on track! Beacon Hills is going to be run by the McCall Pack and I don’t care what Peter, the Sheriff or Derek have to say about it.”You think that’s – ““Chris – would you put the gun down please?”“Are you out of your mind?” Chris exclaimed, still staring at the huge wolf that was in front of them. Admittedly it hadn’t attacked, but there was no way Peter was right and this was Stiles! A full shift werewolf – a bitten one at that – was practically unheard of, and in such a short space of time? There was some weird shit going on that Chris had never experienced before and he felt much safer with a weapon in his hand. “Peter – ““Look – do you trust me?”“I – ““Chris – underneath the sarcastic comments and the fighting – do you trust me?” Chris gave it a moment’s thought and realised that, despite everything they had been through, he did trust Peter. Possibly more than anyone else in his life. Before he could examine that feeling more closer, the wolf began growling, his jaws opening to reveal gleaming white fangs as it stepped closer to Chris, coming right up to the gun he was pointing at its head. “For God’s sake, Chris, put the thing down before Stiles bites your god-damn hand off!” Instinctively obeying Peter’s instructions, he put the safety on and lowered the gun, feeling like he should close his eyes so he didn’t have to see his death coming. Hot breath on his face, the sharp smells of the Preserve, a mass of heat and muscle pressed against his body as the wolf stepped into his personal space and began to scent him. “You sure this is Stiles?” Chris muttered, very aware that the wolf was literally at his throat. He gulped when he met its’ eyes, stunned to realise that their colour was the exact same as Stiles’ when he was excited and talking through plans with his father. Was Peter right?“The scent – the one that kept disappearing whilst we were searching – this is where it came from. And I think – I think the bite took but it was affected by something – ““Something like the Nemeton?” Chris asked, breathing deeply for the first time in what felt like forever when the beast stepped away from him and turned to Peter. “Maybe.” Chris watched as the wolf – Stiles – walked over to Peter and faced him dead on. Peter’s eyes turned electric blue in response to whatever the wolf was doing before he tilted his head back the smallest amount. He wasn’t submitting as in acknowledging superiority – he seemed to be allowing the wolf to decide if he was friend or foe. It was a dangerous move – if Stiles decided Peter was an enemy, he could rip his throat out. “Jesus Christ!” Chris couldn’t hold back the exclamation when the wolf leaned forward and licked Peter’s throat, from the base all the way to his chin, before nuzzling against him and huffing loudly. “I guess he likes how you smell,” he joked in a shaky voice as a loud rumbling sound came from the wolf that was doing its’ best to ‘snuggle’ into Peter. “He can probably sense my wolf beneath the surface. I don’t want to change in case he sees it as a challenge,” Peter said quietly, lifting his hand and carefully placing it on the wolf’s head between its’ ears. “Stiles – Stiles we need to know you’re still in there.”The wolf stopped rumbling and stepped back, dipping its head and whining before turning away.“No, wait! We’re not turning you away!” The wolf turned back at Peter’s voice, seeming to understand. “Pack? You’re looking for your Pack, right? We’re your Pack, Stiles – we’ll help you get back to yourself!”The wolf yipped before rushing Peter, knocking him to the ground and lying on top of him, its huge size made more apparent by the fact that it almost hid him entirely from view. Chris saw Peter’s arms appear from beneath the mass of fur, wrapping around the wolf in a hug.“Chris?”“Yeah?” “Will you please get over here – I think it’s going to take more than me to ground it – him.” Peter’s voice was muffled by the weight on top of him, but he seemed sincere and Chris realised he was facing a big decision. He had always been on the periphery of the Pack – the Argents had not faired well with their destructive and violent attitude in Beacon Hills, and it had taken quite some time for a cordial relationship to be built up. But now – if he did this, it felt like he was committing himself to be Pack, to being a real part of the whole thing. Was that what he wanted? Did he want to be part of bringing Stiles back? Actually be in a Pack with Peter? Without giving himself too much time to think and trusting his heart and gut, Chris walked over and lay down next to Peter on the ground, gasping when Stiles’ eyes glowed when he turned towards Chris.“What do I do?”“Like I know?” Peter sounded slightly hysterical and Chris could understand why. “Just – I don’t know – touch him, touch me – just – “ Chris slid closer until he was shoulder to shoulder with Peter, then reached out and rested his hand on Stiles. Beneath their bodies, the ground shuddered, shoots and leaves appearing from the earth and wrapping around them. “What the – ““PETER!” Chris cried out, trying to pull himself free from the trailing branches and shoots that were wrapping around him. “Hold on!” Gripping tightly to both Peter and the wolf, Chris found himself being pulled beneath the ground, the night sky swallowed by the mounds of earth that covered them.
  Notes:
  To my enablers - Tummysassandass, Mephistopholes, Winterlynne_Norvic - and the usual suspects. 
Thank you to all of the new people who have joined the merry band - I hope you enjoy the latest workings of my strange mind. Special shout out to Afrieal, who came through with some really important information on Un/Broken.
September may be over, but mental health is still very much on my mind. Every mind matters. Look after your mental health. Reach out if you need someone - reach out if you think someone needs you. Let's get through this together.
Love alwaysSkarx
  Actions
      ↑ Top
        Comments (99)
  Comments
          Afrieal, 1andi_andy3, Princess_xoxo, history_doc, SebastianRyan, KGnomite59, AvidWolf15, storyscriber, Kloeschen, jjjean65, KA1913, AnonCoward, Paulie71, skupachk, sunshine04, oneill_twoLs, NyxFrost, historylife, roscoe24, Otakuforlife19, Silverz, Jonan, Eresu, Lightsunflower, Neverhappy, wooly_bear, missvhb78, stephletitia, NobodyKnowsWhoIAM, Reflection, Cashinx, kimyun007, greybinch55, Midnighter_dc, Qwertzu, ChipOfftheOldSoul, Sonnshinefordays, Turtle13, Desi_2018, Katsunie, megbly98, Kiwiwolf, akj, SundayCoffee, carriepup, BleedingBlueKunoichi, lenquo, thetealady, Planthoughts, Lavatsa, 
               and 77 more users
            Mimicat23, PinkImpala68, AccalyaWolfriend, Vafrous_Vee, garulfodansk, garnettac, myho_lex, FanGirling_everyWhere, fedtmule, Sarine, Loppss, maria80, KittyOfTheFoxes, Jiyn, SnazzySterek, MoeNemi, lazy_bouqet, druidicaasimar, white06rose, Cerberuskillz, OneEyedAngel, Parallelz, UrsaErythraeus, queosoteneresto, ria13428, DragonSlayerEmpress, Wrenster_9, ZaliaRW, Belbelleb, lovelost2, 1Brenna_nah_Kerridwen1, herkesishipleyen1, Fiaro, Korylady, LeviLockhart, Sammyfox, Loracine, Toooldforfanfics, TheGreenEyes, mariasanchez, Drich, Lucifer_Luci, CrookedLand, Wolf2, Bmurray946, d1sclosure, Mioo31, Book_wyrm_Adventures, amaris1983, Firefly, makaylcl98, Birdy507, Demented_Egbert, Zule17, Nivalis_Congera, TummySassAndAss, vix_spes, sarasnk, SadRose, RockyMtRose, Reader1000, Niecy8, Whatsa_stiles, sunandmoon33, HogwartsSchoolOfWitchcraftAndWizardry, Trish11, heroesfan33, drewrlove, PiperH98, briary, mephistopholes, Mischiefs_Broken_Heart, triden, devilscut, Fisherlou8, FastFadingFiction and Elisab68
             as well as 
          62 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
