      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    But not a slowburn at all
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      No Fandom
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      TANTRUM
      by
      gabtoledo
      Fandoms:
      All For The Game - Nora Sakavic
 Explicit
 Graphic Depictions Of Violence
 M/M
 Work in Progress
    10 Oct 2020
  Tags
    Graphic Depictions Of ViolenceNeil Josten/Andrew Minyard Katelyn/Aaron Minyard Kevin Day/Jeremy Knox/Jean Moreau Kevin Day/Jean MoreauNeil Josten Andrew Minyard Kevin Day Jean Moreau Thea Muldani Jack (All For The Game) Original Characters Nicky Hemmick Erik Klose David Wymack Abby Winfield Mary Hatford Nathaniel Wesninski Jeremy Knox Aaron Minyard Katelyn (All For The Game) Allison Reynolds Danielle "Dan" Wilds Matt Boyd Renee Walker (All For The Game) Laila Dermott Alvarez (All For The Game) Lola Malcolm Roland (All For The Game) The Moriyamas Stuart HatfordNathaniel AU Mob AU Nathaniel took over his father's place as head of the "family business" It's different from canon though Explicit Sexual Content BDSM Angst Fluff Andrew is a teacher Kid Fic Blood and Gore explicit violence Drug Dealing Dom Andrew Minyard Sub Nathaniel money laudering all the good shit a mob organization deal with Pet Names too many knives Nathaniel is Tattoed and Hot Casual Sex Praise Kink Bratting Bondage Slow Romance But not a slowburn at all Shameless Smut Flirting Soft Andrew Minyard
    Summary
      Andrew’s life as a university professor was utterly calm and boring. He had his daughter, his twin brother, his cousin, and his students. He had his demons too. Remnants of teenage times that were long gone. He wanted boring now, he wanted calm. Or that was what he told himself when the demi devil Nathaniel showed up and turned his life upside down with his brattiness, knives, pyromaniac tendencies, maniac tantrums, and sinful kisses.Nathaniel’s life as a crime boss was like being the king of hell. He had his knives, his employees, his family, and his empire to take care of. He had his enemies too. Remnants of a father that were long gone. He wanted to bring them down with whatever it took, there was nothing he wanted more than that. Or that was what he told himself when the man of golden eyes showed him that there was more than hell and his twisted up self with his hard discipline, whispers, dominant presence, secret smiles, and burning touches.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    59,526
    Chapters:
    7/?
    Comments:
    74
    Kudos:
    200
    Bookmarks:
    22
  Hits:
  3296
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
