      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: katekyou "alternate universe" sort:&gt;words
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Prologue
2. After Dinner Dessert
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warnings:
               Rape/Non-ConUnderageGraphic Depictions Of Violence
              Fandom:
               The Owl House (Cartoon)
              Characters:
               Amity Blight's FatherAmity BlightEmira BlightEdric Blight
              Additional Tags:
               AngstParent/Child IncestAngst with a Happy EndingAnd by ending I mean ending. things are gonna be kinda gross for a whileTraumaChild AbuseSexual AbuseNightmaresGood Siblings Edric &amp; Emira BlightDead Dove: Do Not EatOther Additional Tags to Be AddedGraphic DescriptionPhysical AbuseHomophobiaThe blight parents suck but what else is new
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-09-08Updated:2020-10-08Words:2452Chapters:2/?Comments:26Kudos:30Bookmarks:1Hits:1076
      Play Date
      Whatareyoudoinghere
      Chapter 2: After Dinner Dessert
        Notes:
          This chapter gets graphic so proceed with caution
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Amity never felt safe at home. Of course she didn't, there wasn't a single reason she should feel safe but it was always easier to feel okay when she was alone in her room. Her room was her space, nobody else's and while being anywhere in the house was never a guaranteed safe haven, her room was the closest she got. Maybe that's why she hated family dinner. It was a reason to force her from her only remotely safe space to come sit around the table with the people that made her feel unsafe. Sure, nobody could do anything when they were all together but there was always a thick tension and everyone at the table could feel it. She could feel her father's eyes on her as she ate, listening absent-mindedly as her mother rambled on about something that happened at work that put a dent in her perfect daily routine. Amity just sat silently with her eyes glued to the table while she tried to figure out the funny taste in her drink. It wasn't terrible or too noticeable for that matter but it bothered her. She finished dinner quickly and asked to be excused just as fast, saying she needed to study for a test they were having this week before leaving to go up to her room and wishing that her parents would let her lock the door. She sat at her desk for a couple of minutes, staring blankly down at the pages in her book. She couldn't read the words. They were all smearing together and her head felt fuzzy as if there were a cloud of static in front of her mind. It made her frustrated and she groaned loudly before rubbing her eyes. She opened her eyes again and felt off balance like she was laying down. She blinked a few times to clear the spots from her vision and realized she was laying down. When did she get up from her desk? She was laying on her bed, staring up at the ceiling and trying to remember when she had moved before feeling a cold hand on her leg. She let out an alarmed squeak before glancing over to see her father sitting on the edge of her bed. She saw his mouth moving but her ears felt like they were full of water and she shook her head, having to focus extra hard just to hear what he was saying. "Having trouble, doll?" His voice sounded distant and right in her ear at the same time. She blinked at him, mumbling something but not being able to quite get the words to form. "What was that?" He told her to speak up, shifting himself so that he was sitting facing her, reaching down to run a hand under her shirt. "M'head hurts…" She groaned and weakly attempted to pull his hand off of her beast but his arm felt like it weighed a ton and her muscles felt like they had suddenly been turned to jelly. "Shh, I know. It's alright." He knocked her hands away and she let them fall back onto the bed without much of a protest since it suddenly felt like she was trying to walk through mud everytime she moved. He smiled to himself before moving to take her leggings off. She kicked gently in protest but he still got them off without much of a problem. The one quick movement she was able to make was snapping her legs shut when he attempted to reach down between them. "Nooo…" She whined and tried to prop herself up on her arms only for him to push a hand into her chest, knocking her back down onto the bed. "Yes, doll. Take it easy." He grabbed her knees with a surprising gentleness and pushed them apart, earning another whine from Amity as she rolled her head over on her pillow to stare out the window. The curtains were half shut but there was no light coming in. When did it become dark? Was everyone else asleep? Is that why father was here? How much time had she skipped sitting at her desk? She muttered something incoherent about it being dark but he ignored her, opting to instead start silently fingering her. She whined again when he slipped one finger in and slowly started to pump it in and out but he hushed her softly and kissed her face. It really would've been sweet given any other context. She protested silently by attempting to squirm away but he held her in place by her shoulder with his free hand and told her to stay still. His voice became a bit harsher with that statement and it did make her freeze up. It was better when he was happy. It was easier. "Can...can we stop here? ...please." She pressed her palms to his chest in a feeble attempt to push him off of her when he undid his pants. He shook his head and she wept with scared anticipation as he leaned down and pulled her legs over his shoulders. It left an uncomfortable strain on her hips and she tried again to push him off despite her limbs still feeling like jelly. He let her try, it wasn't going to stop him anyways. He pulled his cock out of his pants and wasted no time at all forcing himself into her pussy, enjoying how it squeezed him so tightly. She was still so small and the size difference meant everything. Her legs already started to ache and she cried, biting into her lip and clutching the sheets until her knuckles turned white. For a moment, he just stayed with his cock fully buried in his little girl, admiring the intimacy of the position before beginning to rock his hips. The quiet mewls that Amity made everytime he thrust back into her made him feel almost euphoric. He was gentle at first but became more violent as he continued, earning himself more whines and squeaks from his daughter. When he felt that she was becoming too loud he swallowed up her sounds in a kiss, feeling his tongue slide over hers and indulging himself in the taste of her mouth. He could taste her chapstick and he bit down on her lip just hard enough to leave a mark without drawing blood. He kept their lips locked until he came, deep inside her. He could feel her shaky movements as she cried under him before pulling away and stuffing himself back into his pants. He sat on her bed, watching her cry for a moment before brushing her hair away from her forehead so he could plant a kiss there. "You did so good tonight, see how much easier it is without all the fighting back?" He softly pet her hair, mentioning the time last week where she had attempted to truly fight him only for him to slam her face first into the floor and dislocated her shoulder which shut her attempt down immediately. She just kept crying, eyes closed, refusing to look at him. "Don't make me drug you again, I like it much better when you can form a full sentence." He gave her another kiss before covering her with her blanket and leaving. "You should attempt to clean yourself up at least." He said before shutting the door behind him.
        Notes:
          This was originally a one chapter story but things happen so now it's a multi-chapter fic lmaoI'm always open to requests and suggestions! I actually love fulfilling people's requests so feel free to ask for something if you wanna see it!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (16)
  Comments
          JahanamQueen, dontmakemelaugh, Darien712098, Waterlilywritings, Simpingforlife, mangleeverdeen, and sexycoomer
             as well as 
          23 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
