      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: hetalia f/f sort:kudos
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Youth
2. Party Tattoos
3. Teenagers
4. Thistle and Weeds
5. Sunflower
6. Blame
7. Nevermind
8. Wake Me Up When September Ends
9. Shut Up and Dance
10. Run Boy Run
11. Rapture
12. Free Fall
13. Team
14. Once in a Dream
        Full-page index
      Comments 
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               General Audiences
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Categories:
               F/FF/MGen
              Fandom:
               RWBY
              Relationships:
               Raven Branwen/Summer Rose/Taiyang Xiao LongOther Relationship Tags to Be AddedMinor or Background Relationship(s)Blake Belladonna/Adam TaurusBlake Belladonna/Yang Xiao LongRuby Rose/Weiss Schnee
              Characters:
               Yang Xiao LongRuby Rose (RWBY)Blake BelladonnaWeiss SchneePenny PolendinaOscar PineQrow BranwenTaiyang Xiao LongRaven BranwenSummer Rose (RWBY)Jaune ArcPyrrha NikosSun Wukong (RWBY)Neptune VasiliasLie RenNora ValkyrieCoco AdelFox AlistairAdam TaurusVelvet ScarlatinaJames IronwoodNeon KattFlynt Coal
              Additional Tags:
               Background RelationshipsPast AbuseImplied/Referenced AbuseAlternate Universe - Normal High SchoolBlood and InjuryPast Alcohol Abuse/AlcoholismImplied/Referenced Alcohol Abuse/Alcoholisma bunch of queer charactersImplied/Referenced HomophobiaAnti-Faunus Racism (RWBY)RacismSlursNot Beta ReadSlice of Life
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-01-06Updated:2020-03-29Words:54734Chapters:14/?Comments:70Kudos:136Bookmarks:35Hits:2506
      Youth
      ReminiscentRevelry
      Chapter 14: Once in a Dream
          Summary:
            It's Ruby's birthday!
        Notes:
          Song: Once in a Dream by In the City
            (See the end of the chapter for  more notes.)
    Chapter Text
   “Once in a dream I thought I could be anyone I wanted, 
   Hard to believe but it felt real to me until the morning, 
   When I’m awake I still can’t shake the taste of freedom.” 
 Ruby liked having a Halloween birthday. When she was younger, she’d get candy from trick-or-treating, and Uncle Qrow always bought her a mixed bag of the good candies as part of her present. It didn’t usually fall on a weekend, so the day of her birthday would just be for her family to celebrate, and during the weekend she’d celebrate with her friends. This year, though, she wasn’t sure if there were plans. She was surprised that Penny and Oscar both offered her a chocolate bar when they got to their homeroom.“Your real present hasn’t arrived yet,” Penny said. She hiccuped slightly and dug her water bottle out of her bag. “But we’ll wrap it and give it to you when it gets here.”“Oh, you didn’t have to!” Ruby said, opening one of the bars and breaking off pieces to offer them. “I don’t even know when your birthdays are.”“March 17th,” Penny said. She frowned, reaching up to fix the bow in her hair. “Oscar’s is May 6th. Can you -”Ruby shifted to comb her hair with her fingers, redoing her ponytail and fixing her bow to where she tied it. “Your hair is really long,” she said, combing her fingers through to make sure there were no knots. “I want it to be as long as Weiss’s,” Penny said. “But I’ve only been growing it out for a couple years.”Oscar poked her cheek with the end of his pencil. “She used to keep it chin-length,” Oscar said. “But Blake started growing her hair out and she liked how it looked.”“Blake’s hair is  long,”  Ruby said. “Not as long as Yang’s, but still pretty long.”“Has Yang ever cut her hair?” Penny asked. She shifted nervously, crossing her ankles under her chair. “She’s gotten the ends trimmed, but I think the last haircut she got was in middle school.” Ruby wrinkled her nose, tugging at the ends of her own hair. “Someone stuck gum in it and Mama had to cut it to get it out. Yang was  mad.” “Somehow the thought of Yang angry is kind of scary,” Oscar said. “It is,” Ruby murmured. She shook her head, like it would shake away the bad thoughts and memories of Yang being angry at Cardin and his friends. She pointed at her paper, tapping the pencil against a problem. “Do you know how to do this one?”She shouldn’t have been surprised that some of her other friends and classmates had found out when her birthday was - Oscar seemed to have told Jaune, who’d told Pyrrha, who’d apparently told Nora and Ren, since the four of them waylaid her when she left her history class. Ren offered her a small box and she gasped when she opened it - it was a small cake, frosted to look like a rose.“Happy birthday!” Nora crowed. “Yang told Pyrrha in chemistry that you liked chocolate and Ren is like the  best  baker in the school. Jaune did the frosting, though.”Ruby tried to splutter out a thanks but Ren just waved a hand. “It was no big deal,” he said. “It was more trouble keeping Nora from eating all the frosting.”Nora leaned toward Ruby and whispered, “Buttercream. Secret Arc family recipe.”Pyrrha, it seemed, had the forethought to put a plastic fork in the box. Ruby took a bite, humming happily. “This is  amazing,”  she said around a mouthful. She spotted Weiss at the end of the hall and waved her over, spearing a bit of the cake and holding it out. “Weiss, try this!”Weiss did, blinking and nodding as she chewed, a hand raised delicately over her mouth. “That’s really good,” she said. “You made that?”Ren nodded. “A family recipe,” he said. “Much better than the box brand.” “Way better,” Ruby agreed. “And the frosting is Jaune’s family recipe?”Jaune nodded, rubbing his neck awkwardly as he blushed. “Yeah, my sister taught me how to make it.”Ruby closed the box carefully, holding it between both hands as she thanked them. They went off to the cafeteria, leaving Weiss and Ruby to go to the library. It’d been over a week since she’d shown up on Ruby’s doorstep and while her eye had healed a fair bit, she still wore a bandage over it. Ruby kept to her left side, so no one could come up on her blind side, running into the cafeteria for something before sitting at their usual table in the library.“I know today is your actual birthday,” Weiss said, “but I was wondering if you wanted to go out for lunch with me on Saturday? As a late celebration.”Ruby beamed at her. “I’d love to,” she said. She set the box between them, opening it. “Share this with me?”Weiss smiled and took the fork Ruby offered her. She’d grabbed another fork from the cafeteria and, inexplicably, mayonnaise packets, which she shoved into her lunch bag. They dug into the cake, making pleased sounds at Ren’s baking. “How’s - uh - how’s the case going?” Ruby asked awkwardly. “With your mom?”Weiss paused in digging her lunch bag out of her backpack. “It’s…” She thought for a moment. “I saw Winter on Sunday. She’s been getting ready with Mom for Father to do the worst he can, but she’s certain that her job isn’t in any danger. She said they were going to give him the papers this coming Sunday.”Ruby set her hand on Weiss’s, calming her tapping fingers. “I’m here for you,” she murmured. “He can’t get to you. I won’t let him.”Weiss smiled at her, lacing her fingers in Ruby’s. “I know,” she whispered. “It’s still - just - it’s nerve-racking. I’ll have to see him at some point, and it’s - it’s hard. I keep trying not to think about it, but-”“It’s hard to push away the bad thoughts,” Ruby said. “But if you need a distraction, I’ve got more books to recommend, and we can always watch Netflix or something.”“Oh, that reminds me!” Weiss unzipped her backpack, pulling out the book Ruby had lent her. “I finished it last night.”“Did you like it?” Ruby asked, taking the worn novel and putting it in her bag. The spine was cracked and the metallic had worn away from parts of the cover, she’d read it so many times.Weiss nodded. “I don’t normally read fantasy but I liked it,” she said. “I’ve never read a book that was formatted like a journal before, and I liked how the characters all felt - real, like they had their own stories beyond the plot.”Ruby grinned. “I’ve got the other two in the trilogy if you wanna read ‘em,” she said. “They get a bit harder to read but they’re still really good.”“Please,” Weiss said, tapping the table with a finger. “It’s a good distraction.”“Come over before dinner and I can give you the second one,” she said. “I like this author, I have, like, ten more of her books. They’re all in the same universe, but this one is set the earliest, even though it’s one of her newer ones. Her first series is about a lady knight, I can lend you that one once you finish this series.”Weiss chuckled as Ruby chattered about the books, giving her brief synopses on the other series she’d read. In truth, Weiss hadn’t read much outside of class requirements except for graphic novels and the book Ruby had lent her was a far cry from the likes of Gatsby or Huck Finn. They were the sort of books her father would disapprove of, with strong female leads and radical notions of justice, even if they were set in a medieval monarchy. She wondered if Ruby’s parents bothered to censor what their daughters consumed or if they trusted them to make good choices. She’d learned that not even an incognito tab would keep her father from knowing what websites she visited and had been tense when she found out that he could access all of her text messages with little effort.Winter had mentioned getting her a phone with a new number and a computer. Weiss had told her it wasn’t urgent. She borrowed Ruby’s laptop when she needed to write a paper and only went out with Ruby or James or part of the STRQ household, all of whom had each other's phone numbers. She missed texting Ruby, but she saw her daily, so it wasn’t too much of a loss. She wouldn’t mind a way to talk to Winter, but they’d emailed back and forth a bit and she’d dropped by the Ironwood house a couple times. A phone wasn’t a dire necessity, not so long as she had actual contact with people who liked her for her, however strange the concept still seemed.The restaurant Weiss took Ruby to was a small diner, their menu entirely custom sandwiches, cream sodas, and desserts. “My fencing coach mentioned this place a few times as one of his favorites,” Weiss said. “If you want to go somewhere else, we can.”“I trust your judgement,” Ruby said simply, following Weiss in. The host sat them at a booth, leaving them with menus after taking their drink orders. “Oh, these are elaborate.”Weiss nodded, reading the descriptions. Some were simple enough - egg or chicken or tuna salad, BLT, meat and cheese on bread, but others had near paragraphs of descriptions.“Did Elvis really like that?” Ruby asked, reading off the menu. “Bacon, peanut butter, and banana?”Weiss covered her mouth to mask a gag. “That sounds vile,” she said. “I was looking at the Turkey Delight, it seems simple enough.” Turkey, provolone, mayo, and mango chutney on multigrain bread, she was hoping it would be familiar with a small twist from the chutney.“You sure you don’t want a pound of meat?” Ruby asked, pointing at the item called The Monster.“Maybe if I wanted to have a heart attack,” Weiss said with a snort. “What are you thinking?”“I think The Sailor,” she replied. “Grilled knackwurst, hot pastrami and swiss, sauerkraut, and mustard on grilled rye.”The waiter came back with their drinks and took their orders, telling them it’d be a few minutes before the food came out. They thanked him, Ruby dropping a straw into her soda while Weiss sipped her water.“What’s knackwurst?” Weiss asked. “I’ve heard of bratwurst, that was what Yang brought to the barbecue last week.”“They’re both German,” Ruby said. “Brats are minced up pork or beef in a sausage casing, knackwurst - if I’m remembering right - knackwurst is veal, pork, and garlic in sausage casing.  Wurst  means sausage.”Weiss tapped her fingers against her glass. “So is a sausage just meat inside a casing?” she asked. “It’s not a specific kind of meat?”“I guess so,” Ruby said, shrugging. “I always thought sausage was pork but I guess it isn’t.”Weiss shrugged. She held up her glass and tilted it to Ruby. “Happy birthday, Ruby,” she said.Ruby smiled and tapped her glass against it. She blinked after a second, lowering her glass. “I meant to ask before,” she said, “but when’s your birthday?”Weiss blinked. “December 31st,” she said, setting her glass down.“We both have holiday birthdays,” Ruby hummed.“Mm, I got to spend every birthday with my father’s business partners at his New Year’s party,” Weiss said.“Not this year,” Ruby said. “You can spend it however you like. You’ll be seventeen, right?”Weiss nodded. “I don’t know what Mr. Ironwood does for New Year’s,” she said, watching the workers behind the diner counter. The door to the kitchen had a bell that would ring every time it swung open and she could half-hear the cooks shouting to each other. “Or Christmas, now that I think about it.”“What about Thanksgiving?” Ruby asked. “Granny Calavera already told us she’s coming up to visit, so Yang and I have to decide whose room she’ll take over.”“I think it’s usually just him and Oscar and Penny,” Weiss said, “but Winter told me he already invited her, so I’ll get to spend it with her.”“First time in a few years, right?” Ruby asked.Weiss nodded. “First time in - six years, actually.”“You said she joined the military out of high school,” Ruby said, “what does she do now?”“She’s still in the army, but she was discharged from active duty a few months ago,” Weiss said. “I think, anyway. She won’t tell me what exactly she does, but she’s told me quite certainly that she won’t be sent off somewhere anytime soon.”“I wonder why she won’t tell you,” Ruby hummed. “She didn’t seem like the sort to keep unnecessary secrets.”“She’s not,” Weiss said, “which makes me both more curious and sure that it’s better if I don’t know.”“Hopefully it’s because it’s boring,” Ruby said, picking up her sandwich, “and not because it’s dangerous.”“Hopefully,” Weiss agreed. “But it’s made me wonder what I’m going to do after school, now.”“You didn’t have an idea before?” “I was the heiress,” Weiss said simply. “I was expected to major in business to take over for my father.”“Sounds boring,” Ruby said, wrinkling her nose “I mean, you’ll definitely be good at whatever you pick, but it should be something you’re interested in.”“I don’t know what I’m interested in, is the thing,” Weiss said. “I didn’t - I wasn’t really allowed to be interested in things or humor ideas that wouldn’t help the company. If it wasn’t practical…”“Well, what’s something practical that piques your interest?” Ruby asked, pointing her sandwich toothpick at Weiss. “There are the obvious careers - teacher, engineer, lawyer, doctor.”Weiss paused, her sandwich halfway to her mouth. “One of my classes at Alsius was a sort of introduction to law,” she said. “It was interesting - I enjoyed it, actually.”“There are a lot of types of lawyers,” Ruby said. “Mom’s a divorce lawyer, but her firm deals in family law. Mom’s specialty is divorce cases, Oz handles estates and wills, and Saphron does a lot of prenups and custody cases.”“Oz,” Weiss said, weighing the name carefully. “They founded the firm?”“Yep.” Ruby nodded, chewing methodically. “Mom picked their firm because they do a lot of outreach to the queer community, all pro-bono. Oz does, not the firm itself, but it helped the firm gain some traction when it was new.”“And they’re non-binary?”Ruby nodded again. “Yeah, out and proud. They actually officiated for Mom and Dad and Mama at their vow renewal.”“They can’t have it official, though, can they?” Weiss asked. Ruby shook her head. “No, polyamorous marriages aren’t legally recognized. Officially, Mama and Mom are married and Dad’s a couch surfer. Actually, they’re all happily married to each other.”“How’d they choose?” Weiss asked. “It must have been an awkward conversation, who to leave out of the altar.”Ruby snorted. “Nah, the way Mama put it, the formal marriage is just for taxes and insurance. Since they’re our mothers, it’s easier for Mom to have us ride on her insurance policy if she’s married to Mama. No weird questions about custody or anything, it just looks like they’re a couple who went to the same donor and let him stay involved in the kids’ lives.”“Somehow, that’s harder to swallow than the idea that three adults can be in a committed, healthy relationship with each other,” Weiss said.Ruby shrugged. “It is what it is,” she said simply. “I know they love each other and that they love me and Yang. That’s all that really matters, I think.”“Your uncle loves you, too,” Weiss pointed out. “He does,” Ruby said, smiling. “He’s been hanging out a lot with Mr. Ironwood, though.”“They’re friends,” Weiss said. “I think he might like the peace at the house. Yours is always bustling, but the house is usually pretty peaceful.”“We’re not  that  loud,” Ruby argued.“You have four adults, two teenagers, and a dog,” Weiss said flatly. “If your house is ever silent, either everyone is asleep or dead.”“Dad snores,” Ruby said. “I… suppose it can be a bit loud, but we didn’t have neighbors so close on Patch. The nearest house was half a mile away.”“I’m not complaining,” Weiss said hurriedly. “My house was… it was cold and silent, like a museum where you could look but not touch. Your house - and Mr. Ironwood’s house - they feel lived in, like people aren’t just allowed to be there but supposed to be there.”“They’re welcoming?”Weiss nodded. “It’s a different sort of welcoming,” she said. “Your house doesn’t feel like there’s a routine, I don’t feel like I’m disrupting anything. It’s like I can jump in and become part of whatever’s going on without issue.” She shifted to cross her ankles, her feet bumping into Ruby’s. “Mr. Ironwood’s house has more of a routine, I think because it’s just been the three of them for so long. Meals at the same time but on a cycle of sorts, without any surprises or unplanned variations, and they do the same things around the same time. The only time the routine changes is when your family is involved, really.”“Like Uncle Qrow hanging out with Mr. Ironwood?” Ruby asked.“Or your dad helping Oscar with history,” Weiss said, “or your mom asking me or Penny if we want to walk Zwei with her, or your mama offering to look at my eye.”“How is the eye?” Ruby asked, gesturing at it. She still wore an eyepatch, which was why they took the bus to the restaurant instead of driving.“I should get the stitches out tomorrow,” Weiss said. “Then they’ll assess how much of my vision was affected.”“Any guesses?”“Honestly?” Weiss lifted her hand to touch the patch gently. “I think I may have lost some vision. I definitely had some depth perception issues before they stitched it up. I’m worried I’ll have to relearn how to drive. I- I’m worried they’ll take my license.”“I don’t know,” Ruby said. “Mama had some customers before who could drive with one eye, I don’t think partial blindness would affect you too terribly. You’d have to adjust, for sure, but I don’t think you’d lose your license.”“Your Mama said something similar the other day,” Weiss said. “Mr. Ironwood and Winter did, too, actually. They both know soldiers who lost limbs or eyes who managed to adjust, but…”“You’re still worried?” Ruby asked, folding her arms on the table when Weiss nodded. “It’s okay to be worried. But we’ve got your back, Weiss. If you lost some vision, we’ll help you adjust.”“I guess it could be worse,” Weiss said. “Total blindness isn’t the worst thing in the world,” Ruby said. “Fox can attest to that.”“I like seeing things,” Weiss said. “I like looking at art and watching animations. I’d prefer to keep my sight, all things considered.”“What sense would you give up?” Ruby asked. “If you had to pick.”Weiss sat back, crossing her arms as she thought. Ruby tapped her foot against Weiss’s, watching her.“Probably taste,” she said. “Taste is mostly smell, anyway, so if I can keep smell, food would still be easy to enjoy. What about you?”“Nociception,” Ruby said. “Sensation of pain.”“I’m not sure that counts,” Weiss said.Ruby shrugged. “Touch, then. I don’t mind too much how things feel, anyway, so long as they’re not scratchy.”Weiss snorted. “How do you even know what the sensation of pain is called?”“Research,” Ruby chirped. “I was writing a story and I went down a rabbit hole on neurological stimuli.”“I didn’t know you wrote.”“I’ve been taking a break recently,” Ruby said, stacking the empty plates and putting them at the end of the table. “It’s mostly fanfiction, anyway, and my old fandom is drying up.”Weiss tilted her head, tossing her ponytail over her shoulder as she watched Ruby. “What fandom?”Ruby blushed, giggling slightly. “Uh - Warrior Cats, actually.”Weiss straightened, eyes bright. “Can I read it?”“You’ve read Warriors?”“Ruby,  everyone  read Warriors.”Ruby laughed, her face losing its blush after a second. “Sure, I can send you the link,” she said. “I put a few stories on hold for the moment since I was watching that show, I’ve got some ideas for one-shots but Yang is usually my beta and she hasn’t finished it yet, so I haven’t done anything except write down the ideas.”“I’d offer to beta, but I don’t really know what it entails,” Weiss admitted, tugging on her hair.“Yang usually just checks for typos and makes sure I’m not contradicting myself,” Ruby explained. “She’s got a good memory for what I’ve written and can tell me when I’m detracting from the plot too much.”Weiss blinked. “I know grammar rules,” she said simply. “I break those a lot,” Ruby said. “Using fragments or run-ons and the like. It’s not  proper,  but it works for the narrative. The hardest lesson was commas, I used to use them way too much.”“I can offer to edit any technical writing,” Weiss said, “but as far as prose goes, I think you’re on your own. I never thought to be an editor or a writer.”“But you do something artsy, right?” Ruby asked. “I sing,” Weiss said. “I can play the piano, dance ballet, and write music.”“You do ballet?”“Did ballet,” Weiss corrected. “It was more of Winter’s thing to dance and more of Whitley’s to play an instrument, but I’m decent at either.”“If I show you something I wrote,” Ruby said, “then I want to hear you sing.”Weiss raised an eyebrow. “A high demand.”Ruby grinned. “Equivalent exchange,” she said.Weiss laughed, clear and musical, and Ruby felt her grin broaden across her face as she joined in.After they paid, Ruby let Weiss borrow her phone to call James while she went to the bathroom. “Almost everything is set up here,” he said. “Should I warn them?”“We’ll be there in twenty minutes or so,” Weiss said, watching the bathroom door for Ruby. “We’re catching the bus now.”“All right, we’ll see you soon.” There was a pause and a rustle on the other end of the line. “Qrow, what are - Qrow!” A crash sounded in the distance. “You may want to take your time.”In the background, she heard Tai shout, “Qrow, leave it! Let Raven take that!”“I’ve got it!” Qrow’s voice sounded in the background. Another crash sounded and she could feel James’ wince through the phone.“I’ll make it thirty minutes,” Weiss said. “See you soon.”“Take your time,” James said, sounding strained. Weiss shook her head as she hung up, handing the phone to Ruby when she came out of the bathroom. “I think your Uncle broke something,” she said. “Your dad was shouting at him.”“Oh, I hope they aren’t trying to clean up the yard,” Ruby said. “That always puts them in a bad mood.”“Your yard is pretty clean,” Weiss said.“Yeah, but we’ve got some furniture in the shed that Mama wanted to move onto the patio before Granny came to visit,” Ruby said, following Weiss out of the diner and down the street to the bus stop. “Dad and Uncle Qrow can never agree on how to arrange the chairs and Mom always kicks them out of the yard and does it herself.”Weiss paused by the bus stop, trying to think of a way to stall. Ruby was looking at her phone, replying to a text and not watching where she was going. Hesitantly, Weiss reached out a took Ruby’s right hand in her left, pulling her away from the curb.Ruby looked from her phone to their hands to Weiss, a blush across her cheeks. Weiss’s face was turning pink and she squeezed Ruby’s hand.“I didn’t want you to walk into the road,” she said.Ruby snorted and tucked her phone in her pocket. “That’s fair,” she said. “Penny just wanted to know if we had homework in English.”Weiss hummed, letting Ruby pick their seats on the bus. “So what do you want to do?” she asked. “What do you mean?” Ruby looked at her, confused.“When you’re older,” Weiss clarified. “What do you want to do?”She tilted her head as she thought. “I want to be a detective,” she said after a moment. “Or an FBI agent. I want to help people.”“Doctors help people,” Weiss said, nudging Ruby. She wrinkled her nose. “I don’t like blood. Yang made me watch a documentary last year about the nervous system and it was gross.” She shuddered, shaking her head. “Solving mysteries and puzzles is  way better, and more exciting.”“Considering the book you recommended is about a medieval detective, I shouldn’t be that surprised,” Weiss said. Ruby smiled at her. “Mama and I watch cop shows a lot,” she said. “She thinks I should try for Vale U’s Criminal Justice program.”“It is well-renowned,” Weiss said. “That’s where Fox is going next year, isn’t it?”Ruby nodded. “Early admission, he found out last year,” she said. “He wants to study psychology. Coco’s still touching up her application but she wants to double up in business and fashion.”“Ambitious,” Weiss said. “I doubt my father would approve of me going there. Maybe I should give it a look.”She looked at Ruby with a raised eyebrow, defiant mischief etched across her face, and Ruby grinned.“You’ve got a year before it’s time to apply,” she said, nudging Weiss’s leg to indicate their stop coming up. “But Mom went to Vale, so she could tell you about their law program.”“Did they all go to Vale?” Weiss asked as they got off the bus.Ruby shook her head, pausing on the sidewalk to stretch. “Mom and Dad did,” she said, “but Mama and Uncle Qrow didn’t go to college.” At Weiss’s surprised look, she shrugged. “Rough childhood. Uncle Qrow said they were in their twenties when they got their GEDs, after they met Mom and Dad. They might tell you about it if you ask nicely.”“You won’t?” Weiss asked. She kept her hands in her pockets as they walked, trying to make Ruby walk at a slower pace than normal.“I’m not sure if they want me to tell people about their history,” Ruby said. “Mama might not mind, but Uncle Qrow might. It depends on the day, sometimes.”“Fair enough.” Weiss followed Ruby to her door, hanging back a step behind her so she couldn’t see her trying to bite back a grin. There was a sign on the door that made Ruby frown.“‘Come to the backyard’,” she read aloud. “Weird.”Weiss shrugged, following Ruby around the house.
   “SURPRISE!” 
Ruby jumped, backpedaling into Weiss, who caught her by her shoulders to keep her from falling. The backyard had been cleaned up and reorganized, with chairs around a newly-dug fire pit lined with stones. Gathered around were Ruby’s family, the Ironwoods, Blake, Coco, and Fox, all grinning as Ruby spluttered and looked between Weiss and the rest of them.“You planned this?” Ruby asked, looking at Weiss.She tilted her head thoughtfully. “I had a small hand in it,” she said carefully, “but it was mostly Yang’s idea.”If a smile could ever melt ice, Ruby’s could turn glaciers to water. She bounced over to the group and went straight to Coco and Fox to hug them, laughing when Fox picked her up to spin her around. Yang pulled her into a bear hug, saving Blake and Oscar from awkwardly begging off the contact. Penny, who Ruby knew didn’t like hugs unless she initiated them herself, shifted to make room for Weiss in the group.“We’ve got presents for you!” Penny chirped, pointing to the table on the patio. “I may have told a slight lie when I told you it wasn’t here yet.”Ruby waved a hand. “That’s okay, Penny, you had good reason.”“I wrapped the one from me and Coco,” Fox said.“He did not,” Coco said. “He tried to take the scissors from my table and almost cut his toe off when he knocked them off.”“Ruby, do you want to cake first or presents first?” Raven asked, bringing out paper plates and plastic cutlery from the dining room. Summer carried out a cake, frosted red with a  15  written in black icing.“Cake!” Ruby called. The teenagers all gathered around the table, singing over the adults while Ruby grinned, blowing out the candles once they finished.“What’d you wish for?” Yang asked.“Cake,” Ruby said, taking a knife and cutting into it. “Ooh, chocolate.”She passed out the slices, turning to Coco and Fox once everyone had their cake. They were all sat in the chairs around the firepit, the adults on the patio. “How long have you guys been planning this?”Coco smirked. “Since school started,” she said. “We hashed out the details at your track meet after you broke Sky’s nose.”“I still think you should have let me punch Cardin,” Fox grumbled.Yang stiffened, looking at Fox. “Cardin was at the track meet?” she asked, turning to Ruby. “Why didn’t you tell me?”Ruby winced, looking between Coco and Weiss. “It - uh - it didn’t come up?”Yang looked at Ruby flatly, clearly unimpressed.“Would it have mattered if she did?” Blake asked, flicking an ear. “You wouldn’t have been able to do anything.”“It would’ve just upset you if you knew he was there,” Ruby said. Yang slumped slightly, pouting into her cake. Blake patted her shoulder kindly and she sighed. “Did he give you trouble?” she asked.“Not much,” Coco said. “Qrow got him to piss off.”“Sky and Russell were the ones to cause trouble,” Weiss said. “Friends of Cardin’s?” Blake asked.“Cronies,” Fox said. “I don’t think Cardin cares enough about people to have friends.”“They were harassing Sun,” Ruby said. “They got suspended for it,” Coco informed her. “Two weeks. Cardin has kept to himself since then since he doesn’t have anyone to back him up.”Blake narrowed her eyes, flicking an ear. “So they’re racist?” she asked.“And homophobic,” Coco said, tugging on her jacket and making her pins rattle.“And ableist,” Fox interjected. He tapped his cane, bumping it into Ruby’s shoe. “How many canes has he broken? Coco?”“On purpose, he’s broken four,” Coco said, “hidden at least three, and gotten you to break seven by tripping you or putting stuff in your way. Are we counting the ones you broke by hitting people with them?”“No,” Fox grumbled. “I wish they were stronger.”Coco patted his shoulder kindly. “I can only make the 3D printed ones but so thick,” she said. “Getting them to the right length and weight takes time.”“You print his cane?” Oscar asked.Coco nodded. “He breaks them so often that it’s faster to print them than wait for him to send in an application and wait for it to be mailed.”“She has a spare in her trunk at all times,” Fox said. “Your teachers never did anything to stop him?” Blake asked, her ears folded against her head. “They can’t do shit outside of school,” Fox said, “and Cardin knows that.”“He’s the worst,” Coco said with a sigh. “Bright side, he’s not applying to Vale.”“Downside, he got early admission to his father’s alma mater and is letting everyone know how  prestigious  and  renowned  it is,” Fox said, voice curling into a sneer. “Are you going to Vale?” Blake asked.“Hopefully,” Coco said. “Fox got in early admissions last year.”“Before Cardin got his acceptance,” Fox chirped, “so I’ve got that, at least.”Blake frowned, arms crossed and an ear flicking. Coco shrugged, smiling at her. “He’s always been a jerk, but he knows now that his parents’ money can protect him from almost anything. Goodwitch hasn’t put up with a lot of his shit, though.”“Goodwitch is mad her favorite students had to leave,” Fox growled. “And she knows it’s Cardin’s fault.”“Goodwitch is a teacher at Signal,” Yang told Weiss and Blake, who were sharing a confused look.Oscar and Penny looked between Fox and Yang. “What happened?” Penny asked. “A very long story,” Coco said, scraping her plate clean. “Ruby, wanna open your presents?”Ruby took the olive branch with a nod, letting Yang gather up their plates and cutlery and pitch them in the trash. She knew that Yang didn’t want to talk about it and that it was a topic that made Fox angry, without fail. It made Coco sad, but she would distract everyone before dealing with her emotions.Yang brought over the presents, passing Ruby a package wrapped in plain red paper. “Me first,” she said. “Older sister privilege.”Ruby snorted, making a pleased noise when she saw the markers and sketchbook. “Awesome,” she said, setting them in her lap. “Oh, the paper, where should I - Yang!”Yang took the wrapping paper and pitched it into the fire pit, where it smoldered among the kindling. “It’s paper,” she said. “It burns.”“I think it’s chemically treated,” Weiss said, crossing her legs at the ankles and watching the paper crumple in the fire. “I’m not sure you should burn it.”Yang shrugged. “We can ask Port on Monday. Until then, wrapping paper is  paper,  and as such, goes in the  fire  as  kindling  to  burn.” Ruby sighed, setting the markers and sketchbook on her lap. Fox poked her with his cane, an eyebrow raised.“A set of alcohol markers and a new sketchbook,” she told him. He nodded in approval and let Coco hand Ruby the present they’d brought.It was an art book for a series they’d watched as kids. Blake’s gift, wrapped in a rose-patterned paper, was a dystopian novel Ruby had heard of but never read, Oscar’s was a fluffy red hoodie, and Penny had gotten her a set of earrings that looked like silver cogs. Weiss’s gift, which she passed over with a blush, was a silver torc bracelet with roses engraved into it.“I love it,” Ruby said, immediately sliding it onto her wrist. “I love all of these, thank you, guys.”“Awesome,” Yang said. “I think Mama got stuff for s’mores.”“Let me put this stuff inside!” Ruby chirped, gathering them up in her arms and taking them into the dining room. Summer ruffled her hair fondly, giving her a bag full of s’mores stuff and a handful of skewers. “Don’t let Fox get too close to the fire,” Raven said. “Don’t worry, Coco and I will watch him,” Ruby said, already halfway out the door. She passed the s’mores supplies around the circle, letting Coco build Fox’s s’more for him.“You just don’t want me playing with fire,” he accused her, taking the treat anyway.“Last time you had a skewer, you waved a flaming marshmallow in my face and almost burned off my eyebrows,” Coco said flatly. “That’s in the past,” Fox said, waving a hand.“It was last weekend.” Ruby giggled and turned to Weiss, who was rotating her marshmallow over the fire.“Having fun?” she whispered.“I’ve never made s’mores before,” Weiss murmured back. “That’s a tragedy, Weiss,” Ruby said, letting her marshmallow catch fire and burn before blowing it out. “Best way to do it is like this.”“What, set it on fire, blow it out, and put it between the chocolate and crackers?” Weiss watched her squeeze the marshmallow off the skewer by gripping it with the crackers.Ruby shoved it in her mouth, nodding. “Tried and true,” she said around a mouthful of marshmallow, though it was garbled by the food. She swallowed, almost painfully. “Trust me, it’s the best way.”“If you say so,” Weiss said. Pulling the marshmallow off the skewer without touching it led to her breaking the cracker and the chocolate, but she bit into it anyway, mumbling, “Oh, sticky,” when the marshmallow got on her hand. She nodded at Ruby, a hand lifted to cover her mouth.“Okay, this is good,” she said. “Very sugary, though.”“Marshmallows are mostly sugar,” Blake said. “Makes me wonder why it doesn’t caramelize when you set one on fire,” Fox said, now with a skewer he was holding over the fire, the marshmallow burning away slowly.“They’re not just sugar,” Yang said, grabbing the bag. “Yeah, there’s gelatin in them, that’s probably why.”“Ask your chem teacher,” Coco said. “They’re probably used to weird questions.”“He’s the one to posit weird questions,” Weiss said. “And he goes on tangents enough as it is.”“I’m just glad Pyrrha took him to task for being sexist,” Yang said. “I was getting tired of him talking about being  gentlemanly.” “Port?” Blake asked, sounding resigned.“You don’t have him?” Coco asked.“No, but Sun is his son,” she said. “He’s got chronic foot in mouth syndrome. I’m used to it but it can be tiring.”“Tiring doesn’t  begin  to cover it,” Yang said, launching into a tangent that had Fox howling with laughter and Coco and Penny gasping. Blake would interject with explanations for some of Port’s habits, but she mostly let Yang talk. Ruby nudged Weiss, nodding at the fond look Blake wore as she listened to Yang.“Ren is handling the betting pool on when they’re getting together,” Weiss whispered. “Pyrrha told me about it.”“They’re not gonna try and push them, are they?” Ruby asked.Weiss shook her head. “Ren set rules for betting, the first being no interference,” she said. “I don’t bet on principle, but a trip to the diner says before the end of the school year.”Ruby snorted and shook her head. “I’m not betting on my sister,” she murmured, “but it’s a nice idea, them together. Yang’s happier when Blake’s around.”“Are you?” Weiss asked. “Happy, I mean. In general.”Ruby nodded. “Yeah, I think I am,” she whispered, running her fingers along the bracelet. “Are you?”Weiss looked around the fire, at everyone laughing at Yang’s story about Port and Pyrrha, to Ruby and smiled. A warm smile working its way onto her face and Ruby took her hand and squeezed it, returning the smile. Deep in Weiss’s chest, she could feel her heart warm at the gesture and she knew it wasn’t from the fire."Definitely." 
   “Once in a dream I thought I could keep you safe forever 
   You held onto me, a beautiful scene I still remember  
   When I’m awake, I hide all our chains so you aren’t afraid.” 
        Notes:
          This one, like I say for every chapter, took longer than I expected. But that's more because I've had some personal things going on, chief among them: I had to quit my job because of the coronavirus. My grandfather is going through treatments because of growths in his brain and my family asked me to quit so there wouldn't be a risk of passing any COVID-19 germs to him. It's been a week and I already miss it, I worked there for three years and it was a nice constant, but it's a scary time and they were appealing to be considered an essential business.(They aren't. You can't convince me a fabric store is essential, and any masks you make out won't be medical grade. We don't sell the polypropylene that goes in surgical masks and fuck knows how many people daily touch any given bolt of fabric. Add in the fact that our clientele and staff are primarily older women who are more susceptible, the store should have been the first to close.)So yeah, I've been having a time, but so has everyone. Y'all can find me on tumblr @reminiscentrevelry, my ask box is always open and I completely fucked up my sleep schedule so feel free to drop by! Stay safe, stay home, wash your hands, and leave a comment! Thanks for reading!
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
        Comments (9)
  Comments
          Eunb_SinB, Just_your_average_slytherin, S0undWav3s, EllieDockman, HexWolf5678, Stand_Up_and_Shout, Charizardatemymathteacher, Death7559, StrayCatStrut, Zyn, trollbot8, Dark_Dhampir, Pizzacato_N0tes, metagorgon, DarkenedKnight, nosafeharborformyships, Madweather, Nanahi_Kuro, Fennec9, Random_Nobody, lesbirb, Flo07225, Zamrok, CaedarvaMire, LesbianKeys, Fraguess, TheGayMess, WolfFox1994, DieWeisseRose, underscore65, DY4Y, feedthecroc, ScouterFight, cchasing_the_sunn, loveshroom, JacksonCalico, pryingDeVo, Tronmaster5704, KingRichRock, Forgotten_envoy, SilverWordsmith47, AnimeGamerGirl23, Dalionpie, LiteratureNerd, I_am_verity_91, Maxs061, Evilshruw, Skulldiggery, WhatOtherPlanet, True0Neutral, 
               and 21 more users
            Xelha_Llara, sjg09, Majesticrose14, themiddlephilosophers, Elska_Elu, CrumBoons, KrimsonRose, RyoTsushigawa, InsideTheOutsider, Kamuraqi, xoxoHannahxoxo, DolanOats, Breewu10, BMBLBisLife, ArtObArtis, RobNips, lunarfirebird, Alucard45, SuikaScribbles, Atomicon and Kaylathebookworm
             as well as 
          65 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
