      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: words:100
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      Next Chapter →
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Chapter 1
2. Chapter 2
3. Chapter 3
4. Chapter 4
5. Chapter 5
6. Chapter 6
7. Chapter 7
        Full-page index
      Comments 
        Hide Creator's Style
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               No Archive Warnings Apply
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandom:
               Criminal Minds (US TV)
              Relationship:
               Aaron Hotchner/Derek Morgan
              Characters:
               Derek MorganJennifer "JJ" JareauSpencer ReidAaron HotchnerEmily PrentissPenelope GarciaDavid Rossi
        Language:
        English
    Stats:
      Published:2020-04-21Updated:2020-09-24Words:28488Chapters:7/8Comments:26Kudos:34Bookmarks:6Hits:1095
      Get It On Already
      criminalmindss312and309
          Summary:
              Derek and Aaron want each other but both are too scared to make a move because they think the other is straight. So will they get together or continue to hide behind fear?
      Chapter 1
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    Hotch POV...Today was one of those days that I wished for a case because sitting in this office fantasizing over my coworker wasn't cool. My male coworker that is, I thought with a shake of my head. If Derek wasn't such a ladies man or was at least bisexual I may have a chance. But then again I wasn't sure because let's face it, I am divorced, with a young child and eight years his senior. He once told me I was a drill segregate and even though I kept my expression blank, that shit hurt. Derek didn't like his playthings illegal but he did like them younger than him. I sighed as these thoughts killed my spirit a bit and then I let my eyes wander to my employees. I hated that Derek had his own office because I couldn't eye stalk him like I used to. But the good thing is Derek hated being confined in his office so I knew in an hour or so he would come out to get coffee or stop to tease Reid, Prentiss, or his babygirl. His baby girl I though with a scowl. I didn't have any issues with Garica, I was just a little jealous of how Derek flirted with her and the way she flirted back. Even though everyone considers me as uptight, I really wasn't but when it came to my position I had to be. But I would love to get some of that flirting as a man. Hell, he called Reid "Pretty Boy", and no one blinked an eye.But I guess he only flirted with the ones he found pretty and beautiful. I know I am a handsome guy but it didn't matter much if it didn't affect the man I have loved for years. What's crazy is I never desired men until Derek. Haley was my first love but before her, I had a few girlfriends, high school stuff. When I went off to college Haley and I spilt for a few years but still I only dated women. Men weren't an issue until Derek joined the team four years ago. I will never forget that moment because I swear my heart was beating four times its normal speed. Gideon had forewarned me that we were getting a new team member and after giving me the 411 on him I only nodded and told him to bring him to my office when he arrived. I trusted Gideon's opinion 100% so I believed the newcomer would be a great asset to our team, especially since he had the knowledge and the experience of bombs. Everybody on my team comes with their own participate skills. Mines were swat experience, I never missed a shot, I was a lawyer and I never showed fear. Garcia was her computer skills, Reid eidetic memory, reading 20thousand words a minute and ability to twist unsubs words until the unsub was confused about what he or she said. Dave was a master at sarcasm and getting under people's skin and he could read people like he was writing a book. Prentiss was deadly, the alpha female. Like myself, she didn't show much fear and was a demon with weapons. JJ was great at been the compassionate one for families, she knew how to control the media when they were getting out of control and she didn't play when it came to any of us, a true mother hen.Anyway, I was head deep in my paperwork when Gideon knocked on my door. I gave permission for him to enter and he did with Derek. I was about to introduce myself, shake his hand as a professional boss does. But as soon as my eyes meet that gorgeous face my mouth went completely dry. That beautiful chocolate skin is what I noticed first and those hypnotizing brown eyes were the next thing. His juicy lips caught my attention next and when my eyes traveled to that hard chest, the six-pack obvious because his shirt was fitted. I could feel my dick raising a bit and whats fuck up is it didn't register at that moment that I was getting hard because of a man. My eyes would have continued going south if Gideon hadn't cleared his throat. I snapped out of my trance with embarrassment but my face remained stoic as it always it. I knew that I must say something so my new coworker wouldn't think that I was weird or just plain rude. So I looked passed Gideon and tried my best to give him a smile. I know it didn't come across as a real smile, more so of a smirk but shit I was trying, I'm just not a man of many smiles."Hello, I'm Agent Hotchner", everyone calls me Hotch, I said as I stood to my feet with my hand out.I wasn't moving from behind my desk because even though I was dressed in my normal suit and tie, my pants were fitted enough to show the imprint of my half-hard dick."Nice to meet you Hotch", he said with that heart-throbbing smile. He presented his hand and the moment I felt that soft, yet firm handshake my dick rose another few inches. I gripped his hand a little harder than necessary and his eyes widen a bit but he didn't try to pull away. I liked that because it showed off his strength, a strength that I wanted to feel. Gideon cleared his throat again and I looked at him. I believe he knew that I was attracted to Derek because his eyes were laughing with amusement. But to his credit, he never said anything about it."Hotch I think Agent Morgan would like to have his hand back at anything now".My face flushed with embarrassment when I realized I still had his hand. I quickly released it and hurried to sit because I was dizzy at the time. I looked at Morgan hoping he didn't think I was crazy ass hell or worst thing I was trying to hit on him. But I didn't see any of that in his face, his expression was calm, cool and collected, damn profiler. But I knew I had to address this shit someway because I couldn't have my new agent believe that his new boss had any issues."I sorry for gripping your hand", I said with a real smile this time. My mind has been all over the place today and I should have pushed everything out of mind before I met up with you. This type of behavior isn't typical of me and it won't happen again Agent Morgan, I said as calmly as I could.He smiled and I swear I wanted to kiss those pretty lips of his. His smile made me rise to my full eleven inches and I knew there was no way I could stand again before I released myself."Hey man we all have one of those days", he said with a slight laugh. I should have suggested waiting to meet with you when we walked in because I could see your mind was elsewhere", he said sincerely.Before I could respond Gideon looked at me and said, "He's right Hotch, I knew you were distracted when we came in", but I didn't think much of it because you always can do three, hell six things at once".  Before I could respond he said I'll take him to meet the rest of the team. When you finish with your um, well paperwork you can join us. I believed Gideon knew I was hard as a brick but he never said a word and I was grateful. Haley and I had been divorced for six months at that time but it still wasn't right that I was hard because of my new coworker."Thanks", was all I could say and with a smile, Derek walked out first and Gideon followed behind him. It took everything in me not to follow Derek's ass with my eyes. If I knew for sure I wouldn't have gotten caught I would have but I wasn't taking any chances.I waited for a minute and then I jumped up and hurried to lock my door. The blinds were already closed so I hurried back to my seat and yanked my pants and underwear down. I grabbed my very hard dick and spat in my hand and went to work. It felt so good jacking my dick while the image of Derek's face and the feel of his hand was in my mind. Normally I could hold my nut for twenty minutes or longer but that day I exploded like a teen boy. After that encounter, I was fixated with my male coworker. I learned so much about him because as I usually do when a new coworker joins our team is I pair them with me for the first three to six months. Within those six months, I watch for signs of progress, distress, burnout, nightmares and so forth. Within that time the coworker and I learn little things about each other although all of us are very private people until we trust each other with our outer, personal lives. I quickly learned that Derek was a ladies man who didn't like confined relationships. He was upfront with his partners and they seem to respect him for his honesty. But of course, I noticed all he dated was ladies, so I came to the conclusion that he didn't like men at all. Then when we learned about Buford I knew I would never have a chance. But that didn't stop the love or naughty dreams/daydreams that visited my mind daily.I sighed again as the memories reminded me that he would never be mine. I glanced up when I heard Reid squeak. My eyes sadly watched as Derek teased him and then went to hair his hair to play with it. My heart pounded because why couldn't he play with my hair like that, just give me something like he gave Reid and Penelope. He rarely touched me and if he did it was a manly touch, not a playful touch. I continued to watch him and when he bent over to get whatever Reid had knocked off his desk from their playing, my pants got a little tighter. I swear that man had an ass that was better than any woman I had been with. It was so firm, so round, so delicious looking. I wanted to rip off his jeans, bend him over and lick that ass for hours. Then I would play with that tight hole until it loosens him up for my hard dick. Then when he was so out of control and was begging me to just fuck him, I would push him down on my desk and push my dick in inch by delicious inch. He would be moaning my name as I fucked into him harder with each stroke. I would straight dominate him as I made him feel every stroke, every inch of his boss dick."Awhh", I whimpered as I exploded in my pants without even touching myself. Yes, I was at the point if I thought about Derek, looked at him long enough, watched as he spoke, I could cum on myself. This shit is absolutely ridiculous I thought as I went to my private bathroom. I quickly took care of my hygiene and cussed when I went to my private closet and realized I didn't have a clean suit. I had a few jeans and a dress top but no suit. I knew that I couldn't put on my original pants because they were streaked with cum. I didn't want to put on my jeans because I knew that the team would notice and tease. But I couldn't wear dirty clothing, I am Aaron Hotchner and I am very conceited when it comes to my clothing and appearance. "Fuck it", I grumbled out loud as I slipped on the very fitted jeans. I knew I hadn't gained actual weight only muscle from my daily runs, rides, golfing and so forth. Since I rarely wear jeans I didn't realize that these would fit tighter. I rolled my eyes as I grabbed my white dress top. Of course, I added my red tie because I already felt naked. I looked at myself in the mirror and decided that I looked good enough. As I continued looking at myself, my ass especially, I realized it looked nice and plump. I smirked because man or woman Derek appreciated a nice ass. He had even complimented Reid on his a few times. Reid just laughed because he was used to Derek's teasing. I walked out of my bathroom still smirking. I was at my desk and about to sit back down when I sensed I wasn't alone. I turned to the right and there was Derek Morgan sitting in my other chair. But what was more surprising than that was he was staring at me in complete shock and if I wasn't wrong there was something else in those eyes. Was I wrong to believe that there was lust in those beautiful brown eyes? I couldn't take my eyes off him and he couldn't take his eyes off of me. Could this be the time that he realized I was more than just a drill sergeant, I wondered? Could he finally want me as much as I fucking wanted him? I could feel my heartbeat speed up as we both remained locked in this crazy place with no words, just unexplainable looks!
        Notes:
          What y'all think? More or no?
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      Next Chapter →
        Comments (10)
  Comments
          Hmot02, scenicdaisy, DeborahSEllis, Reader_Writer201, LaMusaEuterpe, Ashi91, TJ_is_a_B_W_itch, 7pigy7, nisa0827, StrawberryBasketCase, TheRedTree, I_kill_Zombies, Mihoshi_Jackson, Sekmi, SweetLyn93, Tvfanficgirl46, shalottsilver, Heckya, Londonreed, and AJ_Pastel_Punk
             as well as 
          14 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
