      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: buffy gen teen AND "no archive warnings apply"
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
    Bucky Barnes is thirsty
  This tag belongs to the Additional Tags Category.
      Parent tags (more general):
      Marvel Cinematic Universe
    This tag has not been marked common and can't be filtered on (yet).  
      Works which have used it as a tag:
      Fix Me (I’ve Been Broken)
      by
      deadto27
      Fandoms:
      Captain America (Movies), The Avengers (Marvel Movies), Marvel Cinematic Universe, Marvel
 Teen And Up Audiences
 No Archive Warnings Apply
 M/M
 Complete Work
    16 Nov 2019
  Tags
    No Archive Warnings ApplyJames "Bucky" Barnes/Steve RogersJames "Bucky" Barnes Steve Rogers Sam Wilson (Marvel)Alternate Universe Alternate Universe - Modern Setting AU Fluff Romantic Comedy Pining Flirting Post-Serum Steve Rogers Bucky Barnes is thirsty Steve Rogers is clueless Bucky breaks things so he can see Steve Steve fixes things so he can see Bucky Landlord Steve Rogers tenant Bucky Barnes
    Summary
      Bucky's tap starts leaking. Steve comes to fix it. Bucky swoons. He starts breaking things so Steve will fix them. To be honest, it's not the best plan he's ever had.-----The first time really was legitimate. The hot tap in the kitchen started leaking and Sam decided Bucky’s method of sticking a bucket under it wasn’t sufficient. And apparently just because Bucky worked from home most days, that meant he had to deal with calling their apartment manager to let them know, so they’d send someone to fix it.Sometimes Bucky hated being an adult.
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    7,304
    Chapters:
    1/1
    Comments:
    89
    Kudos:
    515
    Bookmarks:
    80
  Hits:
  3384
      The Red Star
      by
      Girl_Back_There
      Fandoms:
      Marvel Cinematic Universe, The Avengers (Marvel Movies), Captain America (Movies)
 Mature
 Choose Not To Use Archive Warnings
 M/M
 Work in Progress
    10 Oct 2020
  Tags
    Creator Chose Not To Use Archive WarningsJames "Bucky" Barnes/Steve Rogers Clint Barton/Phil Coulson Natasha Romanov/Sam Wilson Past James "Bucky" Barnes/Brock Rumlow past Steve Rogers/Peggy CarterJames "Bucky" Barnes Steve Rogers Clint Barton Natasha Romanov (Marvel) Darcy Lewis Phil Coulson Sam Wilson (Marvel) T'Challa (Marvel) Shuri (Marvel) Brock Rumlow Alexander Pierce Peggy Carter Rebecca Barnes Other Marvel CharactersEmotional Hurt/Comfort Anxiety Attacks Anxious Bucky Barnes Bucky Barnes Feels Bucky Barnes Needs a Hug Alternate Universe - Bakery Sam Wilson Is a Good Bro Natasha Romanov Is a Good Bro Darcy Lewis is essentially Max Black Clint Barton Is a Good Bro Bucky Barnes is thirsty Seriously get that man a tall glass of Steve Rogers MMA Fighter Brock Rumlow Dubious Consent mentions of minor drug use Not Beta Read Gay Bucky Barnes Bisexual Steve Rogers Gaslighting Racist Brock Rumlow T'Challa Is a Good Bro (Marvel) Brock Rumlow is seriously the worst here Verbal Abuse hints of physical abuse Past Rape/Non-con Getting High to Help with Anxiety Stucky Bingo 2020 Author has no idea what she is doing But Don't Tell Her That
    Summary
      Pastry chef extraordinaire, Bucky Barnes has a lot going on right now. The rent for his bakery is about to skyrocket thanks to a rich jerk buying up properties all over Williamsburg. His ex-boyfriend is not going away as ex-boyfriends should do. And a super cute artist is causing all sorts of lusty thoughts Bucky does not know what to do with.But his years-long dream just may come true. If only the Universe would play a little nicer.
    Series
          Part 2 of That Girl's First Stucky Bingo!
      Language:
      English
    Words:
    6,152
    Chapters:
    3/15
    Collections:
    1
    Comments:
    11
    Kudos:
    25
    Bookmarks:
    5
  Hits:
  256
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
