      Main Content
    While we've done our best to make the core functionality of this site accessible without javascript, it will work better with it enabled. Please consider turning it on!
    Archive of Our Own beta 
        Log In
      User name or email:
    Password:
    Remember Me
  Forgot password?
      Get an Invitation
  Site Navigation
      Fandoms
  All Fandoms
        Anime &amp; Manga
        Books &amp; Literature
        Cartoons &amp; Comics &amp; Graphic Novels
        Celebrities &amp; Real People
        Movies
        Music &amp; Bands
        Other Media
        Theater
        TV Shows
        Video Games
        Uncategorized Fandoms
      Browse
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  Collections
      Search
  Works
  Bookmarks
  Tags
  People
      About
  About Us
  News
  FAQ
  Wrangling Guidelines
  Donate or Volunteer
    Search Works
      Work Search:
      tip: austen words:10000-50000 sort:title
      We have new magnet and pin thank-you gifts for those who are able to make a donation! 2,173  new members have already joined the OTW, out of our goal of 5,000.
        ×
Actions
    Entire Work
      ← Previous Chapter
        Chapter Index
      Chapter Index
              1. Prologue
2. Let's Go North
3. ᴴⁱᵈᵉ ᴺ' Sᵉᵉᵏ
4. ᵂᵃˡᵏ ᵂⁱᵗʰ ᴹᵉ
5. ᴹⁱᵈⁿⁱᵍʰᵗ Sʷⁱᵐ
6. ᴬ Fⁱʳᵉ ᵀʰᵃᵗ ᵂⁱˡˡ ᴺᵉᵛᵉʳ ᴮᵘʳⁿ ᴼᵘᵗ
7. Fᵒʳ ᵂʰᵒᵐ ᵀʰᵉ ᴮᵉˡˡ ᵀᵒˡᵈ
8. ᴬ Smell ᴼᶠ ᴬʳᵗ
9. ᵀʰᵉ ᴰᵃᵛⁱⁿᶜⁱ Cᵒᵈᵉ
10. ᴮˡⁱⁿᵈ Sᵖᵒᵗˢ
11. ᴾˡᵃᶜᵉˢ ᴮᵉʸᵒⁿᵈ ᴼᵘʳ ᴸⁱᵛⁱⁿᵍ
12. ᴿᵃⁱⁿ ᴬⁿᵈ Sᵘⁿᶠˡᵒʷᵉʳˢ
13. ᵂʰᵃᵗ'ˢ ᵂʳᵒⁿᵍ ᵂⁱᵗʰ ᴬ ᴸⁱᵗᵗˡᵉ ᴿᵉᵈ
14. ᴸᵉᵗʰᵃˡ ᴸᵘˢᵗ
15. ᴰᵃᵛⁱⁿᶜⁱ ᴬⁿᵈ ᴼᵗʰᵉʳ ᵀʰⁱⁿᵍˢ
16. ᴰⁱˢᶜᵒᵛᵉʳ ᴬⁿᵈ Play
17. ᴬ ᴸᵉᵃᵍᵘᵉ ᴬⁿᵈ ᴬⁿ ᴬˢˢᵃˢˢⁱⁿ
18. Sᵘᶠᶠᵉʳ ᵂⁱᵗʰ ᴹᵉ
19. ᴬ ᴮˡᵒᵒᵈʸ ᴾʳⁱᵛⁱˡᵉᵍᵉ
20. ᴸⁱⁿᵍᵒ Fᵒʳ ᴰᵘᵐᵐⁱᵉˢ
21. Yᵒᵘʳ ᴸⁱᶠᵉ ᴵˢ ᴼⁿˡʸ ᴮᵘᵗ ᴾᵃʸᵐᵉⁿᵗ
22. Bᵘᵇᵇˡᵉˢ ᴬⁿᵈ Fⁱʳᵉʷᵒʳᵏˢ
23. ᴹᵉᵈⁱᶜⁱⁿᵉ
24. Cᵃⁿᵈˡᵉˢ ᴬⁿᵈ ᴸᵒⁿᵍ ᵀʳⁱᵖˢ
25. ᵂʰᵉⁿ ᵀⁱᵐᵉ ᴳᵉᵗ'ˢ ᴬʷᵃʸ
26. ᴵⁿᶠⁱⁿⁱᵗʸ
27. ᴿᵉᵈ ᴿᵘᵐ
28. ᴰʸˢᶠᵘⁿᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿᵃˡ ᴰᵉˢᵗʳᵘᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ | Part One |
29. ᴰʸˢᶠᵘⁿᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿᵃˡ ᴰᵉˢᵗʳᵘᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ | Part Two |
30. ᵀʰʳᵒᵘᵍʰ Sⁱⁿ ᴬⁿᵈ Sᵉˡᶠ ᴿᵉᵃˡⁱᶻᵃᵗⁱᵒⁿ
31. ᴮᵃᶜᵏ ᵀᵒ ᴴⁱᵈᵈᵉⁿ ᴾᵃˢˢⁱᵒⁿ
32. Sᵃᵐᵉ ᴬˢ ᴵᵗ ᴱᵛᵉʳ ᵂᵃˢ
33. ᴬ ᵂⁱˢᵉ ᴹᵃⁿ ᴬⁿᵈ Fˡᵃᵐᵉˢ ᴰᵒⁿ'ᵗ ᴹⁱˣ
34. ᴰᵉᶠⁱⁿᵉᵈ ᴸᵒᵍⁱᶜ
35. ᴬ ᴹⁱˡᵏʸ ᵂᵃʸ Fᵒʳ ᵀʰᵉ ᴬʳᵗⁱˢᵗ
36. ᴮˡᵃⁿᵏ Sᵖᵃᶜᵉ
37. ᴍᴇɴ ɪɴ ʙʟᴀᴄᴋ
38. ᵀᵒᵐᵇ Sᵗᵒⁿᵉˢ
39. Sᵘⁿʳⁱˢᵉ ᵂⁱˡᵗⁱⁿᵍ ᴿᵒˢᵉˢ
40. ᵀʰᵉ Cʳᵃᶻⁱᵉˢ
41. Sⁱᵍʰᵗ ᴼᶠ Fⁱʳᵉ
42. ᴳˡᵒᵇᵃˡ ᵂᵃʳᵐⁱⁿᵍ
43. ᵂʰᵉʳᵉ ᵀʰᵉ ᵂⁱⁿᵈ ᴮˡᵒʷˢ
44. ᵁⁿᶠᵒʳᵗᵘⁿᵃᵗᵉ Fᵃⁱᵗʰ
45. Sʰᵃᵐᵉˡᵉˢˢ
46. ᵁⁿʳᵉᶜᵒᵍⁿⁱᶻᵃᵇˡᵉ ᵀʰʳⁱˡˡˢ
47. ᴹⁱʳᵃᶜˡᵉˢ ᴬʳᵉ Fᵒʳ Fᵒᵒˡˢ
48. Cˡᵉᵃⁿⁱⁿᵍ ᴼᵘᵗ ᴹʸ Cˡᵒˢᵉᵗ
49. ᴬ ᴾʳⁱᶜᵉ ᵀᵒ ᴾᵃʸ
50. Yᵒᵘ'ˡˡ ᴺᵉᵛᵉʳ Fⁱⁿᵈ ᴹᵉ
51. ᴬˡˡ ᵀʰⁱⁿᵍˢ Cᵒᵐᵉ ᵀᵒ ᴬⁿ ᴱⁿᵈ
        Full-page index
      Comments
      Share
      Download
          AZW3
          EPUB
          MOBI
          PDF
          HTML
Work Header
              Rating:
               Explicit
              Archive Warning:
               Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
              Category:
               M/M
              Fandoms:
               TMNT - FandomTMNT2k14TMNT2k16BayverseTMNT
              Relationships:
               Leonardo/Raphael (TMNT)Leonardo/Michelangelo (TMNT)Raphael/Leonardo (TMNT)Donatello/Michelangelo (TMNT)Leonardo/Donatello (TMNT)Raphael/Donatello (TMNT)Raphael/Michelangelo (TMNT)Michelangelo/Donatello (TMNT)Donatello/Leonardo/Michelangelo/Raphael (TMNT)
              Characters:
               Leonardo (TMNT)Raphael (TMNT)Michelangelo (TMNT)Donatello (TMNT)Splinter (TMNT)Casey Jones (TMNT)April O'Neil (TMNT)
              Additional Tags:
               RomanceDrama &amp; RomanceTurtlecest (TMNT)FanfictionTMNTSlow BurnFantasyFictionBlood and GoreCharacter DeathExplicit Sexual ContentExplicit LanguageRapeTerrapinAnal SexAnal FingeringOral SexGayGay SexEventual SmutEventual RomanceI'm Bad At Tagging
        Language:
        English
        Series:
        Part 1 of the The Poison Trilogy series Next Work →
    Stats:
      Published:2019-11-25Completed:2019-12-02Words:194454Chapters:51/51Comments:20Kudos:41Bookmarks:5Hits:1747
      ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ ⁽ᵀᴹᴺᵀ⁾ (Book One)
      Hydrakinz
      Chapter 51: ᴬˡˡ ᵀʰⁱⁿᵍˢ Cᵒᵐᵉ ᵀᵒ ᴬⁿ ᴱⁿᵈ
          Summary:
            " ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ "ᴵˢ ᵇᵃˢᵉᵈ ᵘᵖᵒⁿ ᶜᵒᵐᵖˡᵉᵗᵉ ᶠⁱᶜᵗⁱᵒⁿ ᵃⁿᵈ ⁱᵈᵉᵃ'ˢ ᴴʸᵈʳᵃᵏⁱⁿᶻ, ᴴᵃˢ ᶜᵒˡˡᵉᶜᵗᵉᵈ ᵒᵛᵉʳ ᵗʰᵉ ᵖˡᵒᵗ ᵒᶠ ʰᵉʳ ᶠᵃᵛᵒʳⁱᵗᵉ ᶠᵃⁿᵈᵒᵐ ᵒᶠ ᵃˡˡ ᵗⁱᵐᵉ, ᵀᴹᴺᵀBook Two Out Now! This Story Contains #Turtlecest. ໓໐ຖ't likē, ໓໐ຖ't rēค໓.After Raphael and Leonardo think that their brothers are dead from a warehouse explosion, they mourn the deaths of what remained, including the lie and betrayal of their father faking his own death to keep them safe. Raph and Leo try to move on, but more than twenty surprises hit them in the face like a ton of bricks when Donnie and Mike return to the lair after a fight for adventure. Feelings begin to bloom over the loss. And drama forms and rains over their heads like a storm.Falling In Love With Your Own Sibling Was Never going to be easy-- but getting them to love you back was a challenge-- Only in reality-- they all loved each other just as equal. Read ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿ to find out what unfolds right before their eyes, and to be there every step of the way as these four brothers discover what true love and sacrifice truly means to have exactly what you want.
        Notes:
          (See the end of the chapter for  notes.)
    Chapter Text
    ᵂʰᵃᵗ ᴵˢ Yᵒᵘʳ ᴾᵒⁱˢᵒⁿCʰᵃᵖᵗᵉʳ ᴸᴬˡˡ ᵀʰⁱⁿᵍˢ Cᵒᵐᵉ ᵀᵒ ᴬⁿ ᴱⁿᵈ[ Leonardo ]The penthouse was definitely something to see. It was different. More different than I wanted it to be. But it quickly became something I needed it to be. I was a little taken back from the offer John gave us. He just met us, but he said he knew us enough and even considered us family in some sort of way which was pretty new to me. I wasn't really used to humans accepting us like the familiar ones we did know. I missed my friends from Ninja Tribunal or even the Nexus Tournaments. It had been years since I had seen them all, and sometimes even wondered if they ever thought about us the way we thought about them. Or at least I did. "Leonardo, this will be your room," Jameson said. Which was the butler of the place. For the rest of the day, I doubted nothing wouldn't fail to surprise me. Once I walked in, I wasn't really prepared for how big the place would be. It was just one room. One room that had everything a person could ever want. Bed, of course. Lights. Even a television. I even noticed the walk-in closet and signature colored blue throw across the mattress. I was a reptile who usually only wore pants now and again. Er' well, all the time. And most of that time, they were the same pants, or shorts, or whatever you'd call our hand made rags. "Are you sure?" I asked Jameson, and he gave me a sweet smile before nodding his head. "Of course. You and your brothers all have rooms of their own. Privacy is a big privilege to Mr. Godi, so, he wanted to give you four the same," he explained. "I just uh, wasn't expecting it to be this big. I'm sure Michelangelo is freaking out about all this" I laughed, putting my bag on the floor next to the bed. "I could always change it to your liking if it is too much for you, Sir?" "No, No," I interrupted emerging from the closet after looking around a bit. "No, this is just fine. I'm just not used to it. But I guess now I am going to have to, huh?" "Sometimes I will agree that new things or even surroundings will take some time to get acquaint, so do not worry, I understand, Sir," Jameson reassures."Leo. Just Leo, please," He gives me a nod and leaves me to be alone, though, I didn't ask for it. I couldn't really figure out what I did to deserve such an upgrade. I missed the lair. I missed the smell, though sometimes it was unbearable. I missed my dojo where privacy was so much more than just being alone to do what you had to do. I missed Sensei more than words could describe. And April; I'd give anything to have her here with us. Her and Codey would be happy. Happy and safe in the surroundings of our kind without someone backstabbing her over marriage. I wondered over to the windows, which kind of reminded me of the temples in Japan. Our last visit was very short all due to someone disagreeing with someone's sexuality. Since we were removed from the property I hadn't heard anything out of them. Which was kind of disappointing in my part. It made me worry even more if being who I was would never be accepted. I slowly pulled the curtains back and saw the view. We must have been put on the highest floor possible. Which I guess was kind of the point of being in a penthouse. It was a home for people with riches. For people who could buy anything or even be anything they wanted without someone bothering them. Except for the press maybe. "Leo, you okay?" "Have you seen the view, Mikey?" I asked my little brother who I knew entered the room by his soft, childlike voice. "Yeah, it's kind of overwhelming" he giggles. "Guess we're really moving up in the world, huh?" I grinned down at him then looked back out, watching the clouds float just before my eyes, "This is one of the first days in weeks where it hasn't rained,""Nice isn't it?" he asks, nudging me."Yeah. I guess so. I kinda miss our old place," I admitted, watching his eyes for a minute, "Don't you?""Yes, n' no. Not because I didn't enjoy myself there. But because of the memories. We've lived there since we were tater tots, bro. I try not to let it bother me over the fact that all that was just washed away because of a mistake you made," "Thanks," I sighed sarcastically. "Hey, what am I here for?" he questions, grabbing my hand, and surprising me a little before I squeezed his in return. "Where are the others?" "Oh, I think that butler dude mentioned something to Raph about a gym, and uh, Don is setting up his room. He seems a little, eh, I dunno, out of it after we left April's crib," Mikey answered. "He's been acting odd for a while now. I couldn't blame him after everything that has happened. He has to worry about Codey now. Of course the lair, and you know, keeping up with our relationship," I said trying to sound as honest as I could. I couldn't help but feel bad. Donnie introduced me as his leader, yet I rarely act like one anymore. I needed to step up the game, or else I would be nothing more than a footnote to be siblings. "Well, why don't cha go check on him then, fearless?" Mikey suggests forcing me to roll my eyes. "Yeah? That would be a good idea wouldn't it, Michelangelo? Now, maybe you could go talk Raph into doing some meditation." I grinned before patting Mikey's head and exiting the room. I could already feel his glare on the back of my head, but I knew he'd have fun either way with his mate, as I would mine. But first, I needed to make sure he was okay with all of this. I headed down the hall, noticing the high ceilings with installed lamps that were told that come on by sensor of movement. The whole place was electronically built inside and out which was definitely new for me alone. I figured that this time forward that Donatello would have the time of his life being here. I passed four different rooms before I could figure out which one he was in and when I walked in, he was staring out the window, similar to what I was doing before Mikey interrupted. "I assume you enjoy the view just as much as I do?"He jumps when I make my presence known and he turns to face me, "You startled me," "Deep in thought?"He nods twiddling with his fingers, "Yeah. This is all kinda crazy, to be honest. Don't you think so?"I immediately agreed. "Yeah, Of course, I do. It's gonna take some time getting used to it. But it's better than living a memory every single day or even grieving over the lair being destroyed,"Donnie looked off and back out the window. From here you could see the beach and wide-open oceans that took us far from here. I was born and raised in New York City- yet I never sailed their sea's. "I like it though," he mutters. "You sure?" I asked hovering in behind him, tempting to wrap my arms around his waist, but I waited. "Are you sure, Leo?" he flips, turning to face me again. His own arms were securely wrapped around his stomach as if he was embracing himself. I took a moment to think about what he just asked me. And even for a second, I felt positive, I felt free in my own hands without a litter of doubts and irresponsibility. "Yeah. I'm sure, Don," I smiled. He smiled back at me soon after my words left my lips and came forward to press his own against mine. My breath hitched and I inhaled the scent of Donnie as if I were to swallow him whole. I was truly and finally starting to get our relationship without my hormones interfering. I squeezed both of my arms around his waist and pulled him in tight for a hug until a whimper escaped his lips which echoed against my own and forced me to pull myself back. I felt quite alarmed. Did I hurt him?"Ow," he mumbled, grabbing for his side which my hand was on until he moved it away and all I could do was stare at him. "Are you alright?" I quickly asked, checking his side at the same time as he was and he just shook his head. "Y-Yeah, I'm okay- just a little sore from the other night," he admits with a small giggle. I gawked at him for a second. I was feeling almost puzzled until my mind clicked with the night before and Mikey telling me that Raph and Don headed out not long after breakfast. I let my hands fall from his torso and Donnie studied me as if he was silently asking me what was the matter. I felt the heat in my stomach boiling over and my veins crackling the same way they did when I came face to face with Casey Jones. "Leo?" Donatello interrupted, reaching out to caress my cheek but I pulled away from him. Donnie and Mikey were one thing-- but Donnie was a sacred deal in my book. And if what I think happened, happened. My brother was a goddamn dead man. "Can't believe you," was all I could scramble out of my brain and Donnie's face fell. I slowly took a few steps back and turned my back towards my brother and rushed out of the room. I was practically stomping on my way out and not even a train could stop me. "Leonardo, wait!" Donatello called after me, but I ignored him. Pushed him and his soft convincing voice behind me. I had one target. And even if getting through to him was going to take risks, I'd gladly play it. I looked into every room even if I had Donnie at my heels, I kept going until I found the gym. Which was huge from what I could see. But when I spotted Raph chilling on one of the benches with Mikey on his lap, I couldn't even see clearly anymore. "Oh hey, Leo!" Mikey cheerfully greeted right before I slammed my fist directly into Raph's jaw. The blow sent him and Mike straight off their toes and came down tumbling to the ground with a few loud bangs and crashes. Raph shook off the punch and peered up at me as if he just got the taste knocked out of his mouth. "What the fuck, Leo!" he growled immediately getting to his feet.  I happily shoved him away from me and was glad to tell him what was up, "Do you think you can just take whatever, or even whoever you want, Raphael?"The fuck are ya talkin' about, you dumb fuck!" he shouted back in my face. "You dare lay a finger on Donatello and expect nothing out of it! You can fuck Mikey-- sure! But Donnie, no! You think you can just do us all because why? You're bigger than all of us, tougher, angrier, and you even work out more than us!" I finally paused almost laughing at myself, "Hell, I bet you even think you got a bigger dick than all of us!" Raph just stared at me. He didn't move or even speak. But he looked over my shoulder, and from what I could probably guess. Donnie had finally caught up with me. "I wanted it just as badly as he did, Leo," Donnie muttered admittingly. I turned my head only inches to stare at him, "But why? I don't get it! I thought we were fine. Again!""Don't play dumb, Leo!" Mikey suddenly erupted. When I looked at him, he was standing tall, with his fists clenched at his sides. He was honestly adorable when he acted all tough. Snap out of it, Leo!"Stay out of it, Michelangelo," Raph warned him. Mikey puckered his lips, "No, Raph! Leo plays all innocent when it comes to yous. When you fucked Raph, you wanted it more than he did! You basically forced him into it and he didn't even want to because he was too afraid of betraying me! And Donnie, he topped me, so what!" he exhaled, taking a second to say some more, "You all know, we, we all were meant to be and stuffs! And what we do can be shared. And Leo and Raph don't wanna agree with that because they are--""Alphas," Donnie stepped in, placing a hand over Mikey's shoulder."Alpha's?" I scoffed. "You and Raphael are the two Alpha's of the group, and sometimes, sometimes I'd even go into an agreement of Raph being the only Dom in the posse. Believe it or not, Leo, but it's true," Donnie sighed. I frowned in front of my siblings, feeling like a complete fool. "How does he make you feel?" "What?" Donnie questioned. "Raph. How does he make you feel?" I repeated but more specifically. Donnie gave Raph a knowing look as if he needed a moment to gather the information for my question. He then huffed loudly and repositioned the glasses on his perfect face and opened his mouth only a little, "He makes me feel secure. Kinda like you do. He gets really lovey-dovey when he's in that position. He's less aggressive. Someone else that I thought I'd never see. But I think all three of us could agree that we love when things get rough, bent out of shape and mean with him," Donnie smiled, looking at my red-banded brother. It was true. I couldn't possibly agree more with him. When I wanted Raph, which I still did. It was different. He wasn't rude, he held back and was hesitant. He turned sweet almost. And someone who was as mean like my brother Raph, it was definitely great to see him not be that way. "I was the one who took his virginity though," Mikey announced sticking his tongue out and spitting at us. "Mikey!" Raph said almost instantly which earned him a thump on the top of his head. "Would you guys shut up now? Yeah, I get pretty invested in the whole emotional crap when I'm with ya like that- so what? Now can we all move on and pretend this shit never happened?" "I kinda wish you could be like that all the time," I said, speaking lowly.Raph stared at me with surprised eyes, which led me to smile up at him. The moment surely ended when a cry was released from the room over, and even for a minute. I had forgotten that Codey was still with us. "Sounds like someone is hungry," Donnie spoke smiling at each one of us before leaving the room. I quickly glanced up at Raph and stood up on all of my tippy toes and kissed the jaw I punched earlier. I then left the room as quick as I could with a huge grin on my face. I followed up with Donnie in the nursery that was already pre-maturely made before we even arrived. I assumed this was Angel's old room due to all the pink stuff lying around. But Donnie I'm sure would quickly change that. "Is he okay?" I asked entering the room. Donnie tilted his head from Codey and nodded at me, "Must have had a nightmare or something- he wouldn't take a bottle," "I kinda know how he feels," I chuckled watching Donnie rock the baby in his arms so skillfully. I was suddenly honored to have him in my life. It wasn't a joke anymore to play with, I was truly and unconditionally honored to have him here with me. Not including the other two of my trio. "Yeah. Those dreams you've been having are getting worse, huh?" I shrugged my shoulders and motioned for Codey to be passed over into my arms and Donnie happily handed him over. My second time holding him was just as good as the first. Except for this time, I felt closer to him. I felt more protective, more prepared and less angry over the situation."I could always do a scan on your brain, you know? Check if anything is going on in there, oh fearless one," he explained, while I shook my head. "I think it's just stress," I assumed, staring down at Codey who began drifting back off to sleep. "You think you could take anymore?" Donnie suddenly questioned after a minute of silence. His voice sounded oddly different than the last second I heard him. I looked up and his face was almost expressionless. Worried even. "What do you mean?"He looked down, "Well, um," he swallowed thickly which made me start to panic, "I kinda have something to tell you," he quietly said. I sighed heavily and prepared myself. And whatever was to come I had to promise to myself that I couldn't get mad or lash out while a child was in my arms. "What is it?""I don't know how to tell you though," "Just tell me," "For months, I studied the possibilities, Leo. I'm sure Raphael kind of already knows about it. Even Mikey- but. I did. I studied it. The biosamples, the genes and all the genetics of how and if it would survive, and it's very possible. And the possibilities are endless," Donnie went on, officially making me feel sick. "Cut the crap, and tell me what you did, Donatello!" I demanded sternly and almost strictly. I worried if he's gone off and created some other mutant. We couldn't afford an issue like that right now. Or what if he tried to bring someone back to life-- no, that's just insane. Donnie finally made eye contact with me and his pupils were piercing with curiosity and worry. He was absolutely terrified right now. He picked and continued to fidget with his fingers and even had to fix his glasses in the five seconds of silence he was forcing me to endure. "Donnie," I calmly said. "I'm pregnant," he blurted out in a whisper. Holy Shit....ᵀᵒ ᴮᵉ Cᵒⁿᵗⁱⁿᵘᵉᵈ
        Notes:
          There you have it, TMNT Lovers! I have officially posted all Fifty-One chapters to Archive, and I'm super happy that I've finally taken the time to do so because I still am working on chapters for the second book. But don't worry! I got you. I really hope you enjoyed if you made it this far. If you don't wanna continue the journey on Wattpad for Book Two, then stayed tuned because that one too will be coming to this lovely place. Book Two is far from finished and I even have plans for a book three, who knows. I'm still coming up with idea's as we speak, but do not worry I will keep going all because I love this story so very much. It taught me so much and has caused my imagination to reach far and wide since June of this year. And that's crazy to think I've only just finished this back in October, and I started it in June/July as I was only THEN discovering what TMNT is, and now, I pretty much know every little detail there is to know. This Novel was originally a Mikey x Raphael Fan Fiction Idea. But I thought that would have been too simple. And now it's completely different and even better than what I had originally planned. This entire series is a mixture of every single TMNT Line you could think of. I've tried to add in bits and pieces that add up with different storylines, worlds, characters and stuff like that and I have succeeded greatly and will continue doing so because I'm so very proud of this, whether someone hates it or not, or even finds it repulsively disgusting- but! I won't ever let that stop me. The Turtles in my Story are mostly focused around the Bayverse, but the Mikey in my story is mostly evolved around the 2003 Mikey because he is my favorite Michelangelo. Bayverse Mikey is my second. But anyway! I apologize to keep this going for so long- I just wanted to clear some things up and give a big thanks to every single human being who ever thought of clicking on my story and making it past the Prologue. I love you.Let's keep going and Cowabunga into the next one TOGETHER! Oh yeah, one more thing- Did you like that cliffhanger? Mwuahaha!- Hydrakinz
  Notes:
  So, this is the first time I'm posting a story on here. I'm still unaware of how this website works because I'm super used to Wattpad only but- hey! Trying new things, never ever, hurts. The summary for each chapter will be the exact same because I want to keep it simple by telling nothing further about the plotline or about the chapters that further come. I posted this prologue back in June/July of this year and today it's November 25th, and it just turned 8:00 am for me and I have been thinking about posting my story here for a while to get it further out, so, here I am. The very first book has already been finished, and I'll try to get all fifty-one chapters posted here as fast as I can, but if you wish to read things before I post the next chapter then please check out my Wattpad. It's where I begin my writing hobby except for my desk back in 2k12. But anyway- I'm not asking you to follow me, but if you wanna see the full novel before I post the rest here then just use my Wattpad at, www.Wattpad.com/Hydrakinz as said in my bio. As a second reminder. I'm still very new with this website so if the tags are lame or things seem a little wonky then I apologize. I just want more people to read my novel as it has been the most fun I've ever had writing a book. I'm currently writing the second and working on chapter five. So, go catch up and I hope you enjoy diving into my world and the way I see it within the TMNT fandom!- Hydrakinz
  Series this work belongs to:
      Part 1 of the The Poison Trilogy series Next Work →
  Actions
      ↑ Top
      ←Previous Chapter
  Comments
          TurtleLover84, Mrs_Turtle9000, Jamaica_tan, CornBeanSoup, NinaHamato, Deliciousdame, and KerryAnne
             as well as 
          34 guests
         left kudos on this work!
          (collapse)
      Post Comment
          Note:
          All fields are required. Your email address will not be published.
          Name: 
          Email: 
        Comment
      10000 characters left
	Footer
      About the Archive
        Site Map
        Diversity Statement
        Terms of Service
        DMCA Policy 
      Contact Us
        Report Abuse
        Technical Support and Feedback
      Development
          otwarchive v0.9.295.0
        Known Issues
        GPL by the OTW
