https://becht.com/about-us/news-blog/
News & Insights
The Becht Blog
In this section of the site contributing authors submit interesting articles relating
to the various services, industries and research & development efforts of Becht.
News & Blog
Energy Transition: Solving A Global Problem Requires A Holistic Pursuit
The COVID-19 pandemic has sparked a renewed focus on planning for sustainability and achieving the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement (PCA). These fundamental shifts are strongly evident in the European Union. EU capitals have been put under pressure to agree to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2030 compared with 1990, after the […]
Recent Advances in Becht’s HTHA Damage Modeling Approach Part 5: Time-Dependent Nelson Curves for Carbon and C-0.5Mo Steels
Overview The first four parts of this series have described the updated Becht HTHA model and presented extensive validation for its application to Carbon Steel and C-0.5Mo.  Based on this validation, time-based Nelson Curves for Carbon Steel (CS) and C-0.5Mo suitable for inclusion in API RP 941 [1] are now presented. General Assumptions Curves are […]
Recent Advances in Becht’s HTHA Damage Modeling Approach- Part 4: Carbon Steel Dataset and Calibration
Overview Part 3 of this series presented the data set and calibration used to characterize C-0.5Mo performance.  This part extends the calibration to Carbon Steel using the same basic calibration procedure.  Unlike C-0.5Mo where carbon activity was used as the calibration parameter, for Carbon Steel the carbon activity is assumed to be 1 in all […]
Recent Advances in Becht’s HTHA Damage Modeling Approach- Part 3: C-0.5Mo Dataset and Calibration
Overview Part 2 of this series presented the extension of our model to C-0.5Mo material and calibration to very detailed through-wall damage data for five C-0.5Mo cases (from [1]).  This part completes the analysis of C-0.5Mo by including data from API RP 941 [2] (including both plotted and file points) and the remaining cases from […]
Recent Advances in Becht’s HTHA Damage Modeling Approach- Part 2: Through-Wall Damage Modeling
Overview In Part 1 of this blog series an overview of two basic extensions to our void growth based HTHA model was given.  In this part, validation of through-wall damage predictions are provided by leveraging the unique and exceptionally detailed work presented in the Peng Lui PhD dissertation [1].  Validation is critical for any model, […]
Recent Advances in Becht’s HTHA Damage Modeling Approach -Part 1
Overview This past spring, we described how we’ve incorporated well-established void growth modeling into our high temperature hydrogen attack (HTHA) assessment approach [1].  The purpose of this extension was to blend a reliable time basis for HTHA with our existing critical factor-based method (also published in the Inspectioneering Journal 6 years earlier [2]). The Inspectioneering […]
Normalization Of Deviance Costs Lives
Space Shuttle Challenger Many of us can remember exactly where we were at 11:39 AM EST on January 28, 1986. That was when the Space Shuttle Challenger failed in flight killing all seven crew members. Normalization of Deviance was a major factor in the Challenger shuttle disaster. Normalization of Deviance is when what was unacceptable […]
Improving Burner Design And Operation With CFD Modeling
by Dave Dewees & Zumao Chen Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modeling can be used as an efficient and low-cost alternative to improve the design and operation of a new burner. There are many factors that affect the performance of burners in a charge heater in a refinery. The burner must maintain a certain heat flux […]
Rotating Equipment – Shaft Alignment Basics
Shaft alignment is likely the most misunderstood facet of rotating installation and maintenance. Most shaft alignment today is done by laser alignment tools. But, the laser alignment tools are a “black box”. The problem with a black box is that you only get outputs with no knowledge of what is going on inside the box. […]
Winners, Losers and Everything In Between – Planning for Sustainability
In the final installment of the Winners, Losers, and Everything In Between series, we address “Planning for Sustainability”. What is sustainability and how does one plan for it? Sustainability relates to: Reduced usage of water and general carbon, Lower greenhouse gas emissions, and Enhanced recycling and reuse, both corporately and individually. In order to plan […]
Subscribe to our Blog
I agree to allow the site to collect my data solely for the use of subscriptions.
Blog Tags
Blog Categories
