https://becht.com/plant-services/capital-projects/
Capital Projects
Capital Projects
Investing in new equipment can be a huge undertaking giving you the opportunity to shape the future of your plant and improve returns.  Becht has the expertise and experience to assist with all aspects and phases of the projects.  From helping you to decide how to invest through training and start-up of the new facilities Becht is here to help.

Planning & Reviews
Oversight
Technology & Support
Planning & Reviews
Where do you want to take your plant?  What opportunities and challenges do you face in the future?  How many competing priorities do you have for the available Capital?  Becht’s team is available to study your existing infrastructure and markets and help you to identify a future state and make it a reality. The return on investment for early engagement of the right expertise is significant.
Project Planning & Strategy
We are here to assist with you with everything from initial conceptual design of a $100,000 maintenance modification to a $3.5 Billion integrated petrochemical facility. Becht’s team can provide oversight and expertise in project execution planning, contractor selection, request for quotation development, technology review & selection, contract strategy development, organization chart design, vendor bid reviews and project objectives.
We have found that the design-interfaces between major petrochemical and refining facilities can be highly limiting under various operating modes. An Operating Modes Assessment identifies all the real plant scenarios that can occur under a matrix analysis and reflects the limited plant throughput resulting from the constraint. Incorporating this type of analysis into a major facility upgrade is essential to maximizing throughput post-commissioning on a sustained basis.
Project Stage-gate Reviews
The Capital Stage Gate process is intended to help make sound business decisions as efficiently as possible and reduce the risk of project overruns or busts as you move forward.  Becht offers an independent “Cold Eye” review of capital projects at various stages throughout the project lifecycle to help owner’s transition through these gates. The reviews are designed to assess project focus and progress towards a set of pre-defined goals. They can incorporate scope, schedule, cost and other critical project factors and are executed by highly experienced practitioners with owner-operator experience. We provide reviews of technology readiness and integration prior to detailed engineering, constructability readiness prior to executing construction contract and pre-startup safety assessments prior to commissioning. Becht’s team focuses on practical, actionable recommendations that will impact project success.
Oversight
Engineering Oversight & Review
Capital Projects are an investment in resolving core operational and reliability challenges or capturing new market opportunities; unfortunately, many owners struggle post-commissioning with lingering issues stemming from poor design, construction or engineering. Becht has a structured work-process for providing Engineering Oversight & Review throughout a project lifecycle giving owners raising confidence in a flawless startup, commissioning and subsequent sustained operations.
Becht is frequently requested to assist the plant owner with ensuring the design engineering contractor is designing the project in an efficient manner which will deliver the desired outcome.  Regardless of the size and complexity of the project, Becht’s team has seen it.   Becht’s process involves monitoring contractor quality during Front End Engineering Design, Detailed Engineering and Commissioning including contractor office visits, offsite reviews and site visits, as necessary. Early identification and resolution of issues impact cost, schedule, reliability and operability.
We are there to augment your staff and keep the project on track.
Heavy Haul & Heavy Lift Oversight
Having competent and qualified personnel participating in Heavy Haul & Heavy Lift activities is not only a best practice, it is also an OSHA requirement. Becht’s team is here to provide assurance to these activities.
Click here to read more about Becht’s Heavy Haul & Heavy Lift services >
Technology & Support
Dimensional Technology Services
Becht’s Dimensional Technology Services (DTS) Division provides 3D data capture, dimensional quality assurance and digital asset services that improve productivity, minimize costly dimensional mistakes, improve quality, and mitigate potential safety and cost risks for organizations. We develop a Dimensional Execution Plan (DEP) in the early project-stages and provide field-services during the entire project to eliminate dimensional errors.
Click here to read more about Becht’s DTS services >
Commissioning & Start-up Support
The goal of every project is an “on time, one-time” start-up that produces the expected outcome. Becht can work with you to develop and deliver the training, as well as provide augment technical and non-technical personnel to ensure a smooth start-up. There is nothing more important than having the right expertise engaged in the final commissioning steps with teams that have operated the same or similar process units; in one example Becht provided an eight-person technical and operations team in Greece to ensure a flawless execution of a mega-project. This team provided critical insights throughout commissioning that ultimately led to a safe start-up and continued operations.
Becht’s Performance Group provides highly effective and proactive course of training materials, addressing Procedure Writing and Development, Console Operator Training, Outside Operator Training, and Train the Trainer. We provide experienced developers and trainers, electronically delivered manuals, training workbooks and diagrams for our clients use. This material goes far beyond the typical standard licensor training through customization to your plant site and location.
Click here to read more about Becht’s Performance Group >
Embedded Project Personnel
Executing a capital project involves design engineering contractors, EPC contractors, vendors, technology licensors, specialty contractors, and most importantly the owner’s organization. Becht can supplement your owner’s organization with project engineers, project managers, discipline subject matter experts and other personnel to work from your plant-site or operate out of the contractor’s office. Becht’s team is unique in that we provide highly experienced personnel only with owner-operator background so they serve as an extension of your team bringing the owner’s perspective.
Becht is frequently tasked with filling out the team. Our team of highly experienced Project Professionals have a wealth of owner-operator experience planning, executing, and overseeing projects of all sizes all over the world. We bring the owner’s perspective to supporting your capital projects.
Becht will provide people ready to hit the ground running with all required training, PPE, and a “CAN DO” safety attitude. Becht personnel take Safety seriously. We have a 5-year TRIR of 0.0 reflecting our focus and commitment on safety.
