https://becht.com/privacy-policy/
Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
What data is being collected?
We collect, store, and process the following types of information on our users.

When registering on our site (Only Employees and Advisors do this)

When you are registering for a Training Course

When you are signing up for any of our Newsletters

When you receive an email from Becht

When you submit an Information Request

When you utilize our Apply On-line Form in our Careers section (managed and secured by ADP)

When you subscribe to a Blog Post/Blogger/Blog Category or Make a Comment on a Blog page

How are we collecting this information?

Why are we collecting it?
The only reason we collect personal data is to provide the service in which you are engaging, such as:

How are we using it?
We are using your data to provide you best experience when using our website and our services.The data will be used for your authentication, debugging, collecting anonymous or aggregated stats, and to improve the services we provide.

Who will it be shared with?
We use processor services to ensure the highest possible quality of service. Your data can be transferred to the following categories (depending on what services you use):

You have the option of obtaining a copy of the data

How long will we store it?

What control do I have over it?
If your data is processed on the basis of your consent, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. This does not affect processing until you withdraw your consent.
Consent is provided by our users explicitly when proceeding an action or task (e.g. when you provide user data, contact us using contact forms, sign up to the newsletter, sign up for training).
The only source of data we have is when a user explicitly provides it.
You can always contact us at privacy@sitemail.becht.com to withdraw any consent and/or to request to delete your account or provide you with the data.

Our visitors’ rights regarding GDPR are considered and enforced, including:
Right to be informed:In this Privacy Policy we inform our users about the use that will be made of their data
Right of access:Our users can access all their data stored on Becht.com page, by navigating to “My Account” section (after logging in to the site)
Right of rectification:If you want to change anything in your data just contact ua at privacy@sitemail.becht.com, we’ll process all your rectification queries
Right of erasure:If you want to have your account deleted just contact us at privacy@sitemail.becht.com, we’ll process your erasure query within the lawful timescales
Right to restrict processing:We don’t process the data of our customers (and our customers end-users) except as detailed on this page
Right to data portability:Our users may contact us anytime at privacy@sitemail.becht.com if they wish to get an export of their personal data as defined under GDPR
Right to object:We handle all requests on this matter from our users. Our users may contact us anytime at privacy@sitemail.becht.comOf course, you have right to lodge a complaint.

How do we protect your information?
We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or access your personal information.We offer the use of a secure server. All supplied sensitive/credit information is transmitted via Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology and then encrypted into our Payment gateway providers database only to be accessible by those authorized with special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential.After a transaction, your private information (credit cards, social security numbers, financials, etc.) will not be stored on our servers.

Do we use cookies?
Yes (Cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computers hard drive through your Web browser (if you allow) that enables the sites or service providers systems to recognize your browser and capture and remember certain information).We use cookies to help us remember and process the items in your Training sign-up and understand and save your preferences for future visits.We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we’ll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the Becht website. Of course you could adjust your browser to Not Allow cookies on your machine but they are harmless and most websites process their technology accordingly.

Do we disclose any information to outside parties?
We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. This does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, as long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety.

Third party links
Occasionally, at our discretion, we may include third party products or services on our website. Some are wholly-owned by Becht while others are Strategic Partners. These third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies from ours. We therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. Nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites.

Online Privacy Policy Only
This online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline.

