https://becht.com/plant-services/turn-around/
Turnaround & Maintenance
Turnaround & Maintenance
Completing a Turnaround or a Major Maintenance event on cost, schedule and quality takes significant involvement from owner-organization and 3rd party contractors.
Becht brings seasoned professionals and work processes to help our clients manage, plan, review and supervise these major events.
We bring practical best-practices and horsepower that will drive successful event execution.

Turnaround Process
Readiness & Reviews
Turnaround Planning
Turnaround Process
TA Process Gap Analysis
Becht offers independent gap analysis of a site’s or corporation’s turnaround process and workstreams relative to best practices found in industry turnaround’s success. Becht utilizes industry experienced turnaround professionals with significant turnaround management and planning experience to facilitate and lead these gap analysis reviews.
Our process for Becht TA Process Gap Analysis includes a holistic review across the entire turnaround process cycle, from pre-TA strategy to post TA review. Becht additionally has structured work processes to augment any gaps found, if needed.
Example:
Becht was engaged by a Far East Refining Company to conduct a Turnaround Process Gap Assessment to evaluate and provide recommendations on the current structure, and planning of the company’s turnaround process.
Becht provided experienced professionals with turnaround, maintenance and operations backgrounds. The Becht team identified numerous opportunities to improve the company’s turnaround process for strategy setting including contracting strategy, scope refinement, detail planning and schedule, and execution strategies for their site. The team additionally made recommendations on how to close the gaps, minimizing the cost and duration risks to the site.
Becht’s recommendations helped the owner prioritize critical tasks that were necessary to ultimately drive turnaround success.
Strategic Guidance for Multiyear Turnaround and Maintenance Planning
Becht offers independent “Cold Eye” reviews of turnaround goals, scope, work schedules and cost at critical times relative to the turnaround’s success. Becht utilizes industry experienced turnaround professionals with significant turnaround management and planning experience to lead reviews.
Our process for Becht Readiness Reviews (BRRs) includes four reviews throughout the turnaround cycle. Becht additionally has structured work processes for Operations Shutdown & Startup, Decontamination Workshop and Machinery Readiness Reviews.
Readiness & Reviews
Becht offers independent “Cold Eye” reviews of turnaround goals, scope, work schedules and cost at critical times relative to the turnaround’s success. Becht utilizes industry experienced turnaround professionals with significant turnaround management and planning experience to lead reviews.  Our process for Becht Readiness Reviews (BRRs) includes four reviews throughout the turnaround cycle.   Becht additionally has structured work processes for Operations Shutdown & Startup, Decontamination Workshop, and Machinery Readiness Reviews.
Operations Shutdown & Startup
These reviews are integrated into the BRR stage-gate reviews with a focus on site preparedness from an operations perspective.
Becht utilizes experienced industry operations veterans to evaluate readiness by documented criteria.  Reviews include operations resourcing, decontamination strategy, temporary facilities, environmental considerations, permitting requirements and training among other items.
Machinery Readiness Review
The Machinery Readiness Review can be integrated into Becht’s Readiness Review (BRR) work process.  The reviews are structured to evaluate spare parts inventory, machinery execution plan, field and shop oversight and personnel availability among other items.
Scope Development & Optimization (BechtRBWS)
Developing a worklist involves extensive input from operations, integrity, engineering and other disciplines throughout the organization. With the significant turnover in the industry, most sites struggle through scope development. Becht can bring customized training to your site to improve scope identification, collection and definition.
The days of “Open, Clean and Inspect” on a Crude Distillation Column are no longer acceptable with industries drive for planning, scheduling and discovery minimization during event execution.
Becht has been doing risk-based work scope reviews for over 10 years, with an average of $3 million savings (24% work scope reduction) using the BechtRBWS Methodology, with a corresponding reduction in manpower needed.
Becht’s scope collection and optimization platform, BechtRBWS, provides a web-based location to collect and risk-rank scope.
Contact us to learn more about BechtRBWS today >
Turnaround Planning
The industry has historically employed execution contractor planners, schedulers and project control support to facilitate work-scope definition and planning. This approach has left owners in an exposed position – “the fox watching the henhouse” – promoting maximizing the clock versus planning for maximum efficiency.
Becht has developed a self-managed Planning, Scheduling and Project Controls approach that brings industry best practices and highly experienced personnel to address this challenge. We drive a consistent approach in line with client expectations and Becht’s standards driving accurate, meaningful and actionable key performance indicators.
If you are looking for a different approach – reach out to Becht today >
Turnaround Inspection Planning
Addressing the gap between the Turnaround Department and Inspection Department has been an age-old challenge for owners. Becht has lived in those shoes before and as such has developed a Turnaround Inspection Planning methodology to bridge the gap. Our structured work process includes a highly experienced on-site Inspection Planner that mitigates client regulatory and business risk utilizing industry best practices.
The goal of our service is “No Surprises.” We accomplish this through a comprehensive review of inspection records, detailed planning of non-intrusive pre-turnaround inspections, and presence onsite during the outage to support our client. Anticipated repairs identified during the pre-turnaround inspection are planned, estimated and scheduled into the turnaround work scope.
Turnaround Manager Mentoring
Becht can bring highly experienced former Turnaround Managers for some of the world’s largest energy companies, to help and mentor new and/or first time in seat Turnaround Leaders. We mentor in more than just the execution area, our Turnaround Managers will bring strategic and practical guidance as a coach across all of the different factions that Turnaround Managers work in.
We have provided mentoring in many different areas of the Turnaround Process, such as Contract Strategy, Cost Estimation and  Integration of Multi-departmental work into turnarounds, just to name a few. Clients often say it’s like having an encyclopedia of knowledge on turnrounds in their corner.
Becht has provided a Turnaround Managers’ for Turnaround Mentoring for multiple U.S. and Canadian Refineries.  These assignments supported activities including strategic development, TA Manager shadowing, contracting strategy development/implementation and execution development.
Planning & Discovery Engineering
Becht frequently gets engaged in work scope development and definition utilizing experienced engineering specialists in all disciplines (fixed, rotating, process technology, materials).
We can help improve your work scope from “open, clean and inspect” to a detailed worklist item with scope fully defined. During the planning stage many clients ask, “repair or replace?” for major worklist items such as Hydrocracker Reactor Overlay Cracking or Fluid Catalytic Cracker (FCC) Cyclones. Becht can assist in holistic evaluations of these worklist items with engineering recommendations.
Our personnel can mobilize onsite for short to long term duration (e.g. 1+ year) to support scope development and on-site turnaround support. During the event our experienced engineers, typically with 15+ years’ experience, provide mentoring and guidance to junior engineers while identifying and defining discovery repairs.
Our on-site team is able to leverage Becht’s Central Engineering Support offsite for analysis (e.g. Crack Flaw Fitness For Service) to keep the Turnaround on schedule.  We offer rapid and practical solutions based on our significant code experience and owner’s focus.
Field Execution, Coordination and Oversight
We bring highly experienced staff to help drive Turnaround Event Execution and Oversight. We have found that there is nothing more important than competent boots on the ground to solve the countless challenges that come up during event execution.
We have provided Execution Leads, Mechanical Field Supervisors, I&E Field Supervisors, Roto Specialist, Chemical Cleaning Leads, Material Coordinators, Heavy Lift Supervisors, Operations Supervisors and many other personnel to help our clients succeed. Our teams have mobilized in as short as 12 hours.
