https://becht.com/becht-blog/entry/tag/safety/

Tag: Safety
What Is The Difference Between Training And Education?
Training is a burgeoning field and an important tool for any workforce. This is not only true in the oil and gas industry, but in every industry. Companies want their workforces to be safer, more efficient, and more prepared than ever before, and they realize the need for effective training in order to achieve these […]
Due Diligence – Making Rapid, Accurate Judgements
or  “Kidnapped By My Own Business Team” A number of years ago I worked closely with an Operating Company Business Team and Mergers and Acquisitions group performing due diligence assessments. I often led these assessments and my input on reliability, maintenance, mechanical integrity and inspection was incorporated into a multi discipline team of legal, environmental, […]
Treat Reliability Like …
This blog outlines ways to think about reliability to help drive a culture of continuous improvement.  It is the fourth in a series of Blogs on improving plant reliability performance through changes in culture, programs, equipment design, maintenance and operation. The principles we applied in implementing successful reliability programs in a number of operating plants […]
Root Cause Failure Analysis (RCFA) – A Key Element to Improved Reliability
Many companies and organizations have been on the reliability journey for a number of years, while others are just beginning.  There are many elements of a solid reliability program – establishing a reliability centered culture, tracking key metrics, bad actor elimination programs and establishing equipment reliability plans – to name a few.  But, one key […]
Due Diligence – Front End Loading for Plant Acquisitions
In many cases operating companies and financial institutions utilize Due Diligence studies for critical input on “Go/No Go” decisions for plant acquisitions.  Once the decision is made to purchase the plant, the Due Diligence study is often put on the shelf.  The company purchasing the new asset then faces significant challenges integrating the asset into […]
Importance of Codes and Standards for Process Safety
Compliance with the Process Safety Management rule, OSHA 1910.119, is a requirement for plants processing certain highly hazardous materials exceeding threshold quantities. The rule requires the owner to demonstrate all equipment has been purchased and installed in accordance with recognized industry standards. Maintenance practices must also be according to Recognized and Generally Accepted Good Engineering […]
Mecca Crane Collapse — “The worst crane accident in living memory”
I am sure most of you heard about the tragic crane accident that occurred in Mecca in September 2015. I was paying very close attention as the crane was very large and similar to the cranes we work with everyday here at Becht. We have utilized the same make and model on three projects just […]
Safety – Plan, Promote and Participate:  A Simple Recipe For Success
As the year draws to a close, I’ve been retrospective —  regarding what I have seen in terms of Safety successes.   It turns out that it has been a good year for Safety! Having had the opportunity to interact with different operations, companies and a variety of “Safety Cultures”, it is evident to me […]
Consistency and Commitment to BBO Safety Program Add to Unprecedented Success of North Slope Turnaround
by Scott McLaurin, Becht Safety Solutions Manager and contracted member of Owner’s Team of onsite Safety Professionals during Summer 2014 turnaround on Alaska’s North Slope. “If it’s important, it gets measured” is an oft-heard adage, but especially true when it comes to Safety Performance.  The truth is while we attach certain values to both desirable […]
Hazard Identification: The Mitigation Hierarchy and Human Interface
Hazard Identified; What Next? As we’ve discussed in recent articles, once a hazard is identified as legitimate, it needs to be mitigated.  A time-tested approach is what is known as The Industrial Hierarchy of Controls. While effective if applied properly, we must consider the human interface when utilizing the hierarchy of controls. A quick refresher […]
Posts navigation
