            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing braisedbywolves's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  light
                    Andrew FarrellJun. 6th, 2015
                inner -->
    Previous Day
 | Next Day
        inner -->
                    Jun. 6th, 2015
Things VariousJun. 6th, 2015 02:42 pm
I only thought to check during the week (I thought it was later in the month), but Thursday gone is five years since I got the keys for 22 Heysham Road - I still have on my phone the photo of them that I send to George. I have plans for it over the next while, though so far it's just been furniture moving - the bureau over here, that bookshelf out into the dining room, swap the couch and the desk. But it's edging on for halfway into the year, and I should probably get on with that.My cycle home leads me down the West Bank, a side of a non-descript railway that was presumably named that before Stamford Hill became a centre for Hasidic Judaism. There's two removal vehicles (the type you would use to take away cars) usually parked on that street, and even odder two cars permanently up on the stirrups that protrude from the back of the vehicles. My only explanation is that perhaps, in order to encourage correct handling of these unwieldy monsters, the drivers are encouraged to drive their own cars home like this.I was watching a trailer recently - I do this a lot, I seek out at least 10 trailers of films I never end up seeing for every one I do -  where Jason Segel, of variously varieties of 'lovable' man-child (and also the Muppet Movie) plays a genius writer who is being joined by Jesse Eisenberg, as a nervous journalist and aspiring writer who's travelling with him on his book tour to write an article about travelling with him on his book tour. It seems pretty terrible, Segel at one point says "I think if the book is about anything, it is about the question of 'Why?' - Why am I doing it and what's so American about what I'm doing?" - and it completely doesn't earn the spark that it get when REM's Strange Currencies screams and shimmies in about halfway through. But it did remind me to go listen to the song a half-dozen times, so thanks, I guess..Except on rewatching the trailer, I realised that I'd missed that this was based on a true story, and Segel's character is actually David Foster Wallace, touring Infinite Jest. I don't honestly know how I feel about this - I've never read a word of his work as far as I know, but I've had a lot of people tell me that I'd like it. Here's the trailer, and any thoughts or recommendations on DFW are welcome. I assume that unlike Pynchon, the test is just to dive into his most famous work, Infinite Jest. 
Link
5 comments
Reply
                        inner -->
    Previous Day
 | Next Day
        inner -->
                 inner -->
         inner -->
                    inner -->
Profile
Andrew Farrell
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
June 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
      1
2345678
9101112131415
16171819202122
232425262728 29
30      
Most Popular Tags
bike - 3 uses
comics - 1 use
definitive - 3 uses
films - 3 uses
i love humans - 5 uses
jobsearch - 1 use
poll - 4 uses
useful - 1 use
via ljapp - 1 use
what i've been up to - 1 use
whedonia - 1 use
Page Summary
Things Various
Style Credit
Style: Neutral Good for Practicality by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:28 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
