     Skip to Main Content
                                Profile
                    cheezey    
                    Grant Access
                    Subscribe
                    Track Account
                    Private Message
                        Gift Paid Account
            Journal for the Cheezey One
      Free AccountCreated on 2010-09-08 18:51:29 (#613526), last updated 2011-01-09 (508 weeks ago)4 comments received, 10 comments posted  9 Journal Entries, 14 Tags, 0 Memories, 15 Icons UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:cheezeyBirthdate:Sep 23Location:West Virginia, United States of AmericaWebsite:The Lair of Cheeze  
                 Mini Bio
                I'm Cheezey, a mild-mannered yet undeniably weird gal. I live with my husband (a.k.a. Coldwin), our son Ryan, and with my crew of pets ranging from dogs named Jobober, Molly, and Naboo to six cats named Chibi, Viola, Midnight, Mr. T, Minerbel, and Pumpkin, a small flock of backyard chickens and ducks, and a tank of goldfish.My educational background is a BS in Animal Science, and I worked for 10+ years in pharmaceutical research. I've recently given that career path up in the hopes of pursuing something new. My hobbies include puttering in the yard and garden, cruising the internet, writing, or working on my page.My webpage contains one of the largest and oldest Thundercats pages on the internet, a big villain-centric Voltron page, and a Darkwing Duck Bushroot fan page as well. If you don't know what those things are, they're cartoons from the 80s and early 90s that I liked a lot growing up. My pages all reflect my sense of humor, though, so be warned. If you take those shows or fandom in general too seriously, they may not be for you.
                 Connect
                Interests (57):
            astrology, autism, bushroot, cossack, darkwing duck, depeche mode, fanfiction, fearsome five, fitness, forever knight, gardening, ghost hunters, ghostbusters, ghosts, haggar, harry potter, he-man, house m.d., jack sparrow, james norrington, jem, liquidator, lord of the rings, lotor, lunatacs, m*a*s*h, masters of the universe, megavolt, merla, negaduck, organic foods, organic gardening, pets, pirates of the caribbean, planet doom, potc, pullo, quackerjack, reading, rome, shadow weaver, she-ra, sims 3, stunt dawgs, supernatural, talking heads, taps, the sims 3, the tudors, thundercats, tudor england, voltron, vorenus, weight watchers, writing, yurak, zarkon
                 People
                [View Entries]
                    Mutual Access (6):
             coldwin, duckfiend, ladymako71, monstrous_turtles, thagirion, zebeckras 
                    Also Gives Access To (1):
             vaporshi 
                    Also Has Access From (0)
                    Mutual Subscriptions (6):
             coldwin, duckfiend, ladymako71, monstrous_turtles, thagirion, zebeckras 
                    Other Subscriptions (1):
             vaporshi 
                    Other Subscribers (0)
                 Communities
                [View entries]
                    Member Of (4):
             darkwing_fans, fanficrants, notfic, spn_idgits 
                    Subscriptions (8):
             darkwing_fans, dw_maintenance, dw_news, fandomsecrets, fanficrants, notfic, spn_idgits, thesims3 
                    Administrator Of (1):
             darkwing_fans 
                 Feeds
                [View Entries]
                    Subscriptions (0)
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
