            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing copperfyre's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  light
                    copperfyreEntries tagged with listening
                inner -->
        inner -->
Media WednesdayJan. 24th, 2019 12:41 pm
ReadingI actually haven't finished anything since last week, or proceeded very far in Precursor (the fourth Foreigner book) which I'm going to choose to blame on a five day fieldwork trip. But I did start the Blood Ties series by Tanya Huff while in the field, as I was far too tired to have the brain for Precursor, and it is delightful. She is obviously having the best time ever writing it, so I am having a fantastic time reading it: there are vampires! crime! Toronto! The vampire in question is the Henry Fitzroy, illegitimate son of Henry VIII, because why not? Grand idea! He keeps having entertainingly Highlander like dramatic flashbacks and I am so on board for this. Vicki the human ex-cop wants to fight everything and I want her to get to because she's awesome. Celluci the human cop is torn between being tired of everything and wanting to fight it. Tony the human guy-on-the-street is clearly going to become more involved over time. Almost every character we meet is both hilarious and great (and most of them seem to be bisexual, so that's really refreshing). It's a lot of fun. WatchingStill Highlander! Still less beheadings than I was anticipating, but Who Wants To Live Forever was used during a Sad Angsty Moment and I was delighted. Duncan continues to embody a romance novel and it's still the tropiest thing ever. I do want more flashbacks than the show is giving us, though, because I love dramatic flashbacks, and also because I enjoy Adrian Paul doing terrible accents and sporting various quantities of facial hair. I'm looking forward to when they go to Paris for the second half of the season, where I hope things continue to be just as ridiculous. (Look, I am a very easily pleased individual, it doesn't take much to entertain me.)ListeningStill on The History of Rome! I'm now in the Late Republic, so maybe I'll hit the year 0 sometime before the summer. Also I've been listening to a lot of Camille Saint-Saens, who did delightful things like The Carnival of Animals, which includes a glass harmonica, a truly bizarre instrument (the trouble with me listening to things is that I get distracted and start looking things up, so I had a happy twenty minute detour into the history of the glass harmonica, which was not what I was supposed to be doing at all).
Tags:
cj cherryh,
highlander,
listening,
reading,
tanya huff,
the history of rome,
tv
Link
0 comments
Reply
        inner -->
        inner-->
                    inner -->
Profile
copperfyre
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
October 2019
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
  1 2345
6789101112
13141516171819
20212223242526
2728293031  
Syndicate
Most Popular Tags
anne innis dagg - 1 use
biology - 1 use
cj cherryh - 3 uses
film - 1 use
highlander - 2 uses
history - 1 use
listening - 1 use
personal bloggery - 1 use
podcasts - 1 use
reading - 5 uses
science - 1 use
tanya huff - 2 uses
the history of rome - 1 use
the woman who loves giraffes - 1 use
tv - 2 uses
Page Summary
Media Wednesday
Style Credit
Style: Neutral Good for Practicality by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:29 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
