        HTML BODY {
            margin: 0;
            padding: 103px 0 0;
            }
        HTML.html-adaptive BODY {
            padding-top: 0;
            }
?
                LiveJournal
                                Find more
                                        Communities
                                        RSS Reader
                                Shop
                                iOS &amp; Android
Help
                                Login
                            Login
                                        CREATE BLOG
                                        Join
                                          English
                                        (en)
                                    English (en)
                                    Русский (ru)
                                    Українська (uk)
                                    Français (fr)
                                    Português (pt)
                                    español (es)
                                    Deutsch (de)
                                    Italiano (it)
                                    Беларуская (be)
            davidcook
            —
                    Subscribe
Readability
        Log in
            No account?
            Create an account
                                Remember me
                                Forgot password
                        Log in
                    Log in
                    Facebook
                    Twitter
                    Google
                    Rambler/
                By logging in to LiveJournal using a third-party service you accept LiveJournal's User agreement
                No account?
                    Create an account
                           David Cook (davidcook) wrote,    2014-02-19 16:48:00      David Cook davidcook    2014-02-19 16:48:00              Previous  
                    Share
              Flag  Next           Mood:  curious            Computer choices ...       So, when I started writing this post (a couple of weeks ago), this was mostly academic, however last night my laptop "died" (blue screen with some message about a "memory parity error"), so it's acquired some urgency.Short version - I'm trying to decide whether to upgrade my 6-year-old laptop to move into the post-Windows-XP era, or buy/build a desktop to replace it, and/or what to do with the Mac Mini I have.Long Version I currently have two computers:1.  Mac Mini (2010 model, I think) - 8Gb RAM, 2.4GHz Core2Duo, 320Gb HD, which is my main e-mail/web browsing/photo storage+editing machine.2.  Windows XP laptop, bought in 2008 - 2Gb RAM, 2.4GHz Core2Duo T8300, 320Gb HD, GeForce GTX8800M.  Was bought mainly for gaming, and temporary desktop replacement to cover the move from the UK.  Also holds my iTunes library because that's where it started, and a) there isn't room on the Mini to hold it, and b) I believe it can be complicated transferring from Windows iTunes to the Mac versionIssues :The laptop is on Windows XP.  Obviously that needs to be upgraded soon to Win 7 or 8 as XP support ends.  In turn, that will require more RAM (8Gb would be nice) and more disk space (the 160Gb is split 100 to XP and 60 to Linux).It's large (17" screen), heavy, and noisy.  On the other hand, I hardly ever move it these days anyway.It's coming up to 6 years old, which is ancient in laptop-years.It's at its limit on Skyrim at medium-ish settings, it would be nice to move up a performance level.Update: And it blue-screened and won't boot now.  Also, looks like it can't take more than 4Gb of RAM.The Mac mostly runs fine, but is often a bit sluggish (partly due to Firefox, which has switched from "memory hog" to "CPU hog" over the last few releases).It really should have more disk space, though, as the iTunes library is currently on the XP laptop, and there are various files scattered over the laptop and external drive that should be on the Mini's drive.Options I can see :1.  Consolidate to one computer, probably some kind of Mac (maybe iMac, or MacBook Pro if I forsee any mobile computing requirements that my phone can't deal with).  (Mac Pro if I win the lottery :)  ).This would imply either giving up on Windows gaming, or maybe dual-booting (but that's tedious, and I believe Mac gaming performance isn't quite up to PC level, assuming careful component choice on the PC side)2.  Buy/build a desktop Windows machine to replace the laptop.  That could either use the spare monitor, or maybe I could look at KVM switches (do they work with DVI &amp; USB keyboards/mice these days ?)3.  Upgrade the laptop as required to run Win 7, keep using it until it's truly "finished".(would require RAM and HD upgrades)4.  Other ?So, any thoughts ?  What should I do ?Original post on Dreamwidth - there are  comments there.                Subscribe                    Post a new comment                         Error                                                                   We will log you in after post                  We will log you in after post                                    We will log you in after post                  We will log you in after post                  We will log you in after post                  Anonymously            switch         LiveJournal       Facebook       Twitter       OpenId       Google       MailRu       VKontakte       Anonymously               default userpic                                                                                                                                                     When you submit the form an invisible reCAPTCHA check will be performed. You must follow the Privacy Policy and Google Terms of use.        Post a new comment        Preview comment      
           Help                           5 comments                             Post a new comment        5 comments                    
                Follow us: 
                                    Follow us on Facebook
                                Follow us on Twitter
                Applications
                                iOS
                                Android
                Choose language
English
English (UK)
Deutsch
Dansk
español
Français
Italiano
Русский
Українська
Беларуская
日本語
Português
Esperanto
עברית
Nederlands
Magyar
Gaeilge
íslenska
suomi
Ελληνικά
Norsk bokmål
Svenska
polski
简体中文
Latviešu
Türkçe
Bahasa Melayu
हिन्दी
Brazilian Portuguese
Chinese Traditional
Lietuvių
Norsk nynorsk
                        Current version
                        v.431
                        About
                        User Agreement
                        Help
                        Button "Share"
