Become an Accessibility Trusted Tester for new Google products!Please note that the Trusted Tester program is a small, select group, and that not everyone who expresses interest will be accepted into the program. For this reason, we strongly encourage you to also sign up for our larger user research participant database at google.com/usability.Hello, Are you an avid user of Google products?  Are you passionate about providing feedback and improving accessibility?  If so, then you may be interested in volunteering for Google's Accessibility Trusted Tester program! We are building out a panel of volunteer Accessibility Trusted Testers in the United States and Canada (and soon more countries) to give us more accessibility feedback on new and existing products and ideas.  Potential testers will go through a screening process to enter the program. Those who are selected to participate may have the opportunity to try new Google software and hardware before the general public, and will be able to dialogue directly with Google engineering teams while providing accessibility feedback via email, phone, surveys and/or video conferencing.  The feedback from our Accessibility Trusted Testers will help the engineering teams at Google better understand various accessibility needs in order to incorporate them into future product enhancements.   Comprised of a selected group of individuals, the Accessibility Trusted Testers will be asked to provide voluntary feedback in various formats, including through weekly email surveys or questionnaires, phone calls and/or brief video chat sessions.   To participate you will need to:* Be at least 18 years old* Accept the terms of our Accessibility Trusted Tester Agreement* Have an active Gmail account (or be willing to create one) for Play Store access* Be based in the U.S. or Canada* Be able to provide feedback in English Thank you for your time. Google Accessibility Trusted Tester Teamgoogle-accessibility-trusted-tester@google.comgoogle.com/accessibility/initiatives-researchGoogle LLC1600 Amphitheatre ParkwayMountain View, CA 94043-----Your response to the screening questionnaire below is voluntary, and will only be shared with the Google Accessibility team members directly responsible for managing the Google Accessibility Trusted Tester program. By submitting the screening questionnaire, you agree to share your responses with Google. Google’s Privacy Policy applies to your responses, and is available at https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/.  If you have already entered your information and would like it deleted (and thereby unsubscribe from any potential future emails from our team), you may do so via the link below:https://goo.gl/forms/AXVZ3agwkzXDbk5N2* RequiredEmail address *Your emailDo you currently have a personal Gmail account? *Participants in the Accessibility Trusted Tester program will need an active, personal (non-corporate) Gmail account to access new releases via the Play Store.Yes, I have a Gmail Account.No, I do not have a Gmail Account, but I am willing to create one.No, I do not have a Gmail Account, and I am not willing to create one.NextPage 1 of 24Never submit passwords through Google Forms.This form was created inside of Google.com. Privacy &amp; Terms Forms  
