     category > maptopic > article -->
    GitHub Docs
    All products
  GitHub.com
          Getting started
              Quickstart
                  Set up Git
                  Create a repo
                  Fork a repo
                  Be social
              Learning about GitHub
                  GitHub's products
                  Types of GitHub accounts
                  GitHub CLI
                  GitHub Desktop
                  Access permissions on GitHub
                  GitHub glossary
                  Git cheatsheet
                  Git and GitHub learning resources
              Signing up for GitHub
                  Setting up a trial of GitHub Enterprise Cloud
                  Setting up a trial of GitHub Enterprise Server
              Exploring projects on GitHub
                  Saving repositories with stars
                  Following people
              Using GitHub
                  Supported browsers
                  Keyboard shortcuts
          User accounts
              Managing user account settings
                  About your personal dashboard
                  Changing your GitHub username
                  Converting a user into an organization
                  Deleting your user account
                  Permission levels for a user account repository
                  Permission levels for user-owned project boards
                  Managing access to your user account's project boards
                  Integrating Jira with your personal projects
              Managing email preferences
                  Adding an email address to your GitHub account
                  Changing your primary email address
                  Setting a backup email address
                  Setting your commit email address
                  Remembering your GitHub username or email
              Managing access to your personal repositories
                  Inviting collaborators to a personal repository
                  Removing a collaborator from a personal repository
                  Removing yourself from a collaborator's repository
              Managing your membership in organizations
                  About organization membership
                  Accessing an organization
                  Viewing people's roles in an organization
                  Publicizing or hiding organization membership
                  Removing yourself from an organization
          Profiles
              Customizing your profile
                  About your profile
                  About your organization's profile
                  Personalizing your profile
                  Pinning items to your profile
              Managing contribution graphs on your profile
                  Viewing contributions on your profile
                  Showing an overview of your activity on your profile
                  Publicizing or hiding your private contributions on your profile
                  Sending your GitHub Enterprise Server contributions to your GitHub.com profile
                  Why are my contributions not showing up on my profile?
                  Troubleshooting commits on your timeline
          Authentication
              Keeping your account and data secure
                  About authentication to GitHub
                  Creating a strong password
                  Updating your GitHub access credentials
                  Creating a personal access token
                  Reviewing your SSH keys
                  Reviewing your deploy keys
                  Authorizing OAuth Apps
                  Reviewing your authorized integrations
                  Connecting with third-party applications
                  Reviewing your authorized applications (OAuth)
                  Reviewing your security log
                  Removing sensitive data from a repository
                  Sudo mode
                  Preventing unauthorized access
              Securing your account with two-factor authentication (2FA)
                  About two-factor authentication
                  Configuring two-factor authentication
                  Configuring two-factor authentication recovery methods
                  Accessing GitHub using two-factor authentication
                  Recovering your account if you lose your 2FA credentials
                  Disabling two-factor authentication for your personal account
              Connecting to GitHub with SSH
                  About SSH
                  Checking for existing SSH keys
                  Generating a new SSH key and adding it to the ssh-agent
                  Adding a new SSH key to your GitHub account
                  Testing your SSH connection
                  Working with SSH key passphrases
              Troubleshooting SSH
                  Recovering your SSH key passphrase
                  Error: Permission denied (publickey)
                  Error: Bad file number
                  Error: Key already in use
                  Error: Permission to user/repo denied to other-user
                  Error: Permission to user/repo denied to user/other-repo
                  Error: Agent admitted failure to sign
                  Error: ssh-add: illegal option -- K
                  Error: We're doing an SSH key audit
              Managing commit signature verification
                  About commit signature verification
                  Checking for existing GPG keys
                  Generating a new GPG key
                  Adding a new GPG key to your GitHub account
                  Telling Git about your signing key
                  Associating an email with your GPG key
                  Signing commits
                  Signing tags
              Troubleshooting commit signature verification
                  Checking your commit and tag signature verification status
                  Updating an expired GPG key
                  Using a verified email address in your GPG key
          Receiving notifications about activity on GitHub
              Getting started with notifications
                  About notifications
                  About web notifications
                  About email notifications
                  Accessing your notifications
                  Choosing the delivery method for your notifications
              Managing your notifications
                  Marking notifications as read
                  Saving notifications for later
                  Subscribing to and unsubscribing from notifications
                  Listing the issues and pull requests you're subscribed to
                  Watching and unwatching repositories
                  Watching and unwatching releases for a repository
                  Watching and unwatching team discussions
                  Listing the repositories you're watching
          Organizations and teams
              Collaborating with groups in organizations
                  About organizations
                  About your organization dashboard
                  Creating a new organization from scratch
                  Accessing your organization's settings
                  About your organization’s news feed
              Managing membership in your organization
                  Adding people to your organization
                  Removing a member from your organization
                  Reinstating a former member of your organization
              Managing people's access to your organization with roles
                  Permission levels for an organization
                  Maintaining ownership continuity for your organization
                  Giving "team maintainer" permissions to an organization member
              Organizing members into teams
                  About teams
                  Creating a team
                  Setting your team's profile picture
                  Adding organization members to a team
                  Managing code review assignment for your team
                  Renaming a team
                  Changing team visibility
                  Moving a team in your organization’s hierarchy
                  Requesting to add a child team
                  Requesting to add or change a parent team
                  Removing organization members from a team
                  Disabling team discussions for your organization
                  Deleting a team
              Managing access to your organization's repositories
                  Repository permission levels for an organization
                  Setting base permissions for an organization
                  Viewing people with access to your repository
                  Managing an individual's access to an organization repository
                  Managing team access to an organization repository
                  Adding outside collaborators to repositories in your organization
                  Removing an outside collaborator from an organization repository
                  Converting an organization member to an outside collaborator
                  Converting an outside collaborator to an organization member
                  Reinstating a former outside collaborator's access to your organization
              Managing access to your organization’s project boards
                  Project board permissions for an organization
                  Managing access to a project board for organization members
                  Managing team access to an organization project board
                  Managing an individual’s access to an organization project board
                  Adding an outside collaborator to a project board in your organization
                  Removing an outside collaborator from an organization project board
              Managing access to your organization's apps
                  Adding GitHub App managers in your organization
                  Removing GitHub App managers from your organization
              Managing organization settings
                  Renaming an organization
                  Transferring organization ownership
                  Restricting repository creation in your organization
                  Setting permissions for deleting or transferring repositories
                  Restricting repository visibility changes in your organization
                  Managing the forking policy for your organization
                  Setting permissions for adding outside collaborators
                  Allowing people to delete issues in your organization
                  Setting team creation permissions in your organization
                  Managing default labels for repositories in your organization
                  Managing the display of member names in your organization
                  Deleting an organization account
                  Converting an organization into a user
                  Integrating Jira with your organization project board
              Migrating to improved organization permissions
                  Converting an Owners team to improved organization permissions
                  Converting an admin team to improved organization permissions
                  Migrating admin teams to improved organization permissions
              Keeping your organization secure
                  Viewing whether users in your organization have 2FA enabled
                  Preparing to require two-factor authentication in your organization
                  Requiring two-factor authentication in your organization
                  Reviewing the audit log for your organization
                  Reviewing your organization's installed integrations
              Managing Git access to your organization's repositories
                  About SSH certificate authorities
                  Managing your organization's SSH certificate authorities
          Writing on GitHub
              Getting started with writing and formatting on GitHub
                  About writing and formatting on GitHub
                  Basic writing and formatting syntax
              Working with advanced formatting
                  Organizing information with tables
                  Creating and highlighting code blocks
                  Autolinked references and URLs
              Working with saved replies
                  About saved replies
                  Creating a saved reply
                  Editing a saved reply
                  Deleting a saved reply
                  Using saved replies
              Editing and sharing content with gists
                  Creating gists
                  Forking and cloning gists
          Creating, cloning, and archiving repositories
              Creating a repository on GitHub
                  About repositories
                  About repository visibility
                  Creating a new repository
                  Creating a repository from a template
                  About READMEs
                  About code owners
                  About repository languages
                  Licensing a repository
                  Creating a template repository
                  Creating an issues-only repository
                  Limits for viewing content and diffs in a repository
                  Duplicating a repository
              Cloning a repository from GitHub
                  Cloning a repository
                  HTTPS cloning errors
                  Error: Repository not found
                  Error: Remote HEAD refers to nonexistent ref, unable to checkout
              Archiving a GitHub repository
                  About archiving repositories
                  Archiving repositories
                  Backing up a repository
          Using Git
              Getting started with Git and GitHub
                  Setting your username in Git
                  Caching your GitHub credentials in Git
                  Why is Git always asking for my password?
                  Updating credentials from the macOS Keychain
              Learning about Git
                  Git workflows
                  Associating text editors with Git
                  Configuring Git to handle line endings
                  Ignoring files
              Using common Git commands
                  Pushing commits to a remote repository
                  Getting changes from a remote repository
                  Dealing with non-fast-forward errors
              Managing remote repositories
                  About remote repositories
                  Which remote URL should I use?
                  Adding a remote
                  Changing a remote's URL
                  Renaming a remote
                  Removing a remote
              Using advanced Git commands
                  About Git rebase
                  Using Git rebase on the command line
                  Resolving merge conflicts after a Git rebase
                  About Git subtree merges
                  Splitting a subfolder out into a new repository
          Committing changes to your project
              Creating and editing commits
                  About commits
                  Creating a commit with multiple authors
                  Changing a commit message
              Viewing and comparing commits
                  Commit branch and tag labels
                  Comparing commits
                  Differences between commit views
              Troubleshooting commits
                  Commit exists on GitHub but not in my local clone
                  Why are my commits linked to the wrong user?
          Collaborating with issues and pull requests
              Overview
                  GitHub flow
                  About collaborative development models
                  About conversations on GitHub
              Working with forks
                  About forks
                  Configuring a remote for a fork
                  Syncing a fork
                  Merging an upstream repository into your fork
                  Allowing changes to a pull request branch created from a fork
                  What happens to forks when a repository is deleted or changes visibility?
              Collaborating on repositories with code quality features
                  About status checks
                  Working with pre-receive hooks
              Proposing changes to your work with pull requests
                  About branches
                  Creating and deleting branches within your repository
                  About pull requests
                  About comparing branches in pull requests
                  Creating a pull request
                  Creating a pull request from a fork
                  Changing the stage of a pull request
                  Requesting a pull request review
                  Changing the base branch of a pull request
                  Committing changes to a pull request branch created from a fork
              Addressing merge conflicts
                  About merge conflicts
                  Resolving a merge conflict on GitHub
                  Resolving a merge conflict using the command line
              Reviewing changes in pull requests
                  About pull request reviews
                  Reviewing proposed changes in a pull request
                  Filtering files in a pull request
                  Finding changed methods and functions in a pull request
                  Commenting on a pull request
                  Viewing a pull request review
                  Incorporating feedback in your pull request
                  Approving a pull request with required reviews
                  Dismissing a pull request review
                  Checking out pull requests locally
              Incorporating changes from a pull request
                  About pull request merges
                  Merging a pull request
                  Closing a pull request
                  Reverting a pull request
          Managing your work on GitHub
              Managing your work with issues
                  About issues
                  Creating an issue
                  Deleting an issue
                  Opening an issue from a comment
                  Opening an issue from code
                  Transferring an issue to another repository
                  Pinning an issue to your repository
                  Creating a permanent link to a code snippet
                  About task lists
                  About automation for issues and pull requests with query parameters
                  File attachments on issues and pull requests
                  Assigning issues and pull requests to other GitHub users
                  Viewing all of your issues and pull requests
                  Disabling issues
                  Linking a pull request to an issue
                  About duplicate issues and pull requests
              Labeling issues and pull requests
                  About labels
                  Creating a label
                  Applying labels to issues and pull requests
                  Editing a label
                  Deleting a label
              Managing project boards
                  About project boards
                  Creating a project board
                  Editing a project board
                  Linking a repository to a project board
                  About automation for project boards
                  Configuring automation for project boards
                  Closing a project board
                  Reopening a closed project board
                  Deleting a project board
                  Disabling project boards in a repository
                  Disabling project boards in your organization
                  Changing project board visibility
              Tracking the progress of your work with project boards
                  Adding issues and pull requests to a project board
                  Adding notes to a project board
                  Tracking progress on your project board
                  Filtering cards on a project board
                  Archiving cards on a project board
              Tracking the progress of your work with milestones
                  About milestones
                  Creating and editing milestones for issues and pull requests
                  Associating milestones with issues and pull requests
                  Filtering issues and pull requests by milestone
                  Viewing your milestone's progress
              Finding information in a repository
                  Filtering issues and pull requests
                  Filtering issues and pull requests by assignees
                  Filtering issues and pull requests by labels
                  Filtering pull requests by review status
                  Sorting issues and pull requests
                  Using search to filter issues and pull requests
                  Sharing filters
          Building a strong community
              Setting up your project for healthy contributions
                  Setting guidelines for repository contributors
                  Adding a license to a repository
                  Adding support resources to your project
                  Creating a default community health file
              Using templates to encourage useful issues and pull requests
                  About issue and pull request templates
                  Configuring issue templates for your repository
                  Creating a pull request template for your repository
                  Manually creating a single issue template for your repository
              Moderating comments and conversations
                  Managing disruptive comments
                  Locking conversations
                  Tracking changes in a comment
              Documenting your project with wikis
                  About wikis
                  Adding or editing wiki pages
                  Creating a footer or sidebar for your wiki
                  Editing wiki content
                  Viewing a wiki's history of changes
                  Changing access permissions for wikis
                  Disabling wikis
              Collaborating with your team
                  About team discussions
                  Creating a team discussion
                  Editing or deleting a team discussion
                  Pinning a team discussion
          Searching for information on GitHub
              Getting started with searching on GitHub
                  About searching on GitHub
                  Understanding the search syntax
                  Troubleshooting search queries
                  Sorting search results
                  Enabling GitHub.com repository search in GitHub Enterprise Server
              Searching on GitHub
                  Finding files on GitHub
                  Searching for repositories
                  Searching topics
                  Searching code
                  Searching commits
                  Searching issues and pull requests
                  Searching users
                  Searching wikis
                  Searching in forks
          Importing your projects
              Importing source code to GitHub
                  Importing a Git repository using the command line
                  Adding an existing project to GitHub using the command line
                  Source code migration tools
              Working with Subversion on GitHub
                  What are the differences between Subversion and Git?
                  Support for Subversion clients
                  Subversion properties supported by GitHub
          Administering a repository
              Managing repository settings
                  Setting repository visibility
                  Classifying your repository with topics
                  Customizing how changed files appear on GitHub
                  About email notifications for pushes to your repository
                  Customizing your repository's social media preview
                  Viewing deployment activity for your repository
                  Managing the forking policy for your repository
                  Enabling anonymous Git read access for a repository
                  Configuring autolinks to reference external resources
                  Renaming a repository
                  Transferring a repository
                  Deleting a repository
              Managing branches in your repository
                  Viewing branches in your repository
                  Changing the default branch
                  Deleting and restoring branches in a pull request
              Configuring pull request merges
                  About merge methods on GitHub
                  Configuring commit squashing for pull requests
                  Configuring commit rebasing for pull requests
                  Managing the automatic deletion of branches
              Defining the mergeability of pull requests
                  About protected branches
                  Configuring protected branches
                  About required status checks
                  Types of required status checks
                  Enabling required status checks
                  About branch restrictions
                  Enabling branch restrictions
                  About required reviews for pull requests
                  Enabling required reviews for pull requests
                  About required commit signing
                  Enabling required commit signing
                  Requiring a linear commit history
                  Enabling force pushes to a protected branch
                  Enabling deletion of a protected branch
              Releasing projects on GitHub
                  About releases
                  Managing releases in a repository
                  Viewing your repository's releases and tags
                  Linking to releases
                  Automation for release forms with query parameters
          Visualizing repository data with graphs
              Accessing basic repository data
                  About repository graphs
                  Viewing a summary of repository activity
                  Viewing a project's contributors
              Analyzing changes to a repository's content
                  Visualizing commits in a repository
                  Visualizing additions and deletions to content in a repository
              Understanding connections between repositories
                  Viewing a repository's network
                  Listing the forks of a repository
                  About the dependency graph
                  Exploring the dependencies of a repository
          Managing security vulnerabilities
              Managing vulnerabilities in your project's dependencies
                  About alerts for vulnerable dependencies
          Managing files in a repository
              Managing files on GitHub
                  Creating new files
                  Adding a file to a repository
                  Moving a file to a new location
                  Editing files in your repository
                  Editing files in another user's repository
                  Tracking changes in a file
                  Deleting files
                  Renaming a file
                  Getting permanent links to files
              Managing files using the command line
                  Adding a file to a repository using the command line
                  Renaming a file using the command line
                  Moving a file to a new location using the command line
              Working with non-code files
                  Rendering and diffing images
                  3D File Viewer
                  Rendering CSV and TSV data
                  Rendering PDF documents
                  Rendering differences in prose documents
                  Mapping geoJSON files on GitHub
                  Working with Jupyter Notebook files on GitHub
          Managing large files
              Working with large files
                  Conditions for large files
                  Removing files from a repository's history
                  Distributing large binaries
              Versioning large files
                  About Git Large File Storage
                  Installing Git Large File Storage
                  Configuring Git Large File Storage
                  Collaboration with Git Large File Storage
                  Moving a file in your repository to Git Large File Storage
                  Removing files from Git Large File Storage
                  Resolving Git Large File Storage upload failures
          Extending GitHub
          Getting started with the API
          Git automation with OAuth tokens
          About webhooks
          GitHub Pages
              Getting started with GitHub Pages
                  About GitHub Pages
                  Creating a GitHub Pages site
                  Configuring a publishing source for your GitHub Pages site
                  Creating a custom 404 page for your GitHub Pages site
                  Unpublishing a GitHub Pages site
              Setting up a GitHub Pages site with Jekyll
                  About GitHub Pages and Jekyll
                  Creating a GitHub Pages site with Jekyll
                  Testing your GitHub Pages site locally with Jekyll
                  Adding content to your GitHub Pages site using Jekyll
                  Setting a Markdown processor for your GitHub Pages site using Jekyll
                  Adding a theme to your GitHub Pages site using Jekyll
                  About Jekyll build errors for GitHub Pages sites
                  Troubleshooting Jekyll build errors for GitHub Pages sites
        GitHub Docs
                Explore by product
                      GitHub.com
                       GitHub.com
                       Enterprise Administrators
                       GitHub Actions
                       GitHub Packages
                       Developers
                       REST API
                       GraphQL API
                       GitHub Insights
                       GitHub Desktop
                       Atom
                       Electron
                            English
                              English
                              简体中文 (Simplified Chinese)
                              日本語 (Japanese)
                              Español (Spanish)
                              Português do Brasil (Portuguese)
      Article version: Enterprise Server 2.20
      Free, Pro, and Team
      Enterprise Server 2.22
      Enterprise Server 2.21
      Enterprise Server 2.20
      Enterprise Server 2.19
    GitHub.com
    Searching for information on GitHub
    Searching on GitHub
    Searching issues and pull requests
      Article version: Enterprise Server 2.20
      Free, Pro, and Team
      Enterprise Server 2.22
      Enterprise Server 2.21
      Enterprise Server 2.20
      Enterprise Server 2.19
        Searching issues and pull requests
        You can search for issues and pull requests on GitHub Enterprise and narrow the results using these search qualifiers in any combination.
        In this article
          Search only issues or pull requests
          Search by the title, body, or comments
          Search within a user's or organization's repositories
          Search by open or closed state
          Search by public or private repository
          Search by author
          Search by assignee
          Search by mention
          Search by team mention
          Search by commenter
          Search by a user that's involved in an issue or pull request
          Search by label
          Search by milestone
          Search by project board
          Search by commit status
          Search by commit SHA
          Search by branch name
          Search by language
          Search by number of comments
          Search by number of interactions
          Search by number of reactions
          Search for draft pull requests
          Search by pull request review status and reviewer
          Search by when an issue or pull request was created or last updated
          Search by when an issue or pull request was closed
          Search by when a pull request was merged
          Search based on whether a pull request is merged or unmerged
          Search based on whether a repository is archived
          Search based on whether a conversation is locked
          Search by missing metadata
          Further reading
    Did this doc help you?
    Want to learn about new docs features and updates? Sign up for updates!
    We're continually improving our docs. We'd love to hear how we can do better.
      What problem did you have?
        Required
        Choose an option
        Information was unclear
        The content was confusing
        The article didn't answer my question
        Other
      Let us know what we can do better
        Optional
      Can we contact you if we have more questions?
        Optional
      Send
    Thank you! Your feedback has been submitted.
  Help us make these docs great!
  All GitHub docs are open source. See something that's wrong or unclear? Submit a pull request.
    Make a contribution
  Or, learn how to contribute.
      You can search for issues and pull requests globally across all of GitHub Enterprise, or search for issues and pull requests within a particular organization. For more information, see "About searching on GitHub."
Tips:
This article contains example searches on the GitHub.com website, but you can use the same search filters on your GitHub Enterprise Server instance.
For a list of search syntaxes that you can add to any search qualifier to further improve your results, see "Understanding the search syntax".
Use quotations around multi-word search terms. For example, if you want to search for issues with the label "In progress," you'd search for label:"in progress". Search is not case sensitive.
You can focus your cursor on the search bar above the issue or pull request list with a keyboard shortcut. For more information, see "Keyboard shortcuts."
Search only issues or pull requests
By default, GitHub Enterprise search will return both issues and pull requests. However, you can restrict search results to just issues or pull requests using the type or is qualifier.
QualifierExampletype:prcat type:pr matches pull requests with the word "cat."type:issuegithub commenter:defunkt type:issue matches issues that contain the word "github," and have a comment by @defunkt.is:prevent is:pr matches pull requests with the word "event."is:issueis:issue label:bug is:closed matches closed issues with the label "bug."
Search by the title, body, or comments
With the in qualifier you can restrict your search to the title, body, comments, or any combination of these. When you omit this qualifier, the title, body, and comments are all searched.
QualifierExamplein:titlewarning in:title matches issues with "warning" in their title.in:bodyerror in:title,body matches issues with "error" in their title or body.in:commentsshipit in:comments matches issues mentioning "shipit" in their comments.
Search within a user's or organization's repositories
To search issues and pull requests in all repositories owned by a certain user or organization, you can use the  user or org qualifier. To search issues and pull requests in a specific repository, you can use the repo qualifier.
QualifierExampleuser:USERNAMEuser:defunkt ubuntu matches issues with the word "ubuntu" from repositories owned by @defunkt.org:ORGNAMEorg:github matches issues in repositories owned by the GitHub organization.repo:USERNAME/REPOSITORYrepo:mozilla/shumway created:&lt;2012-03-01 matches issues from @mozilla's shumway project that were created before March 2012.
Search by open or closed state
You can filter issues and pull requests based on whether they're open or closed using the state or is qualifier.
QualifierExamplestate:openlibraries state:open mentions:vmg matches open issues that mention @vmg with the word "libraries."state:closeddesign state:closed in:body matches closed issues with the word "design" in the body.is:openperformance is:open is:issue matches open issues with the word "performance."is:closedandroid is:closed matches closed issues and pull requests with the word "android."
Search by public or private repository
If you're searching across all of GitHub Enterprise, it can be helpful to filter your results based on whether the repository is public or private. You can do this with is:public and is:private.
QualifierExampleis:publicis:public matches issues and pull requests in all public repositories.is:privateis:private cupcake matches issues and pull requests that contain the word "cupcake" in private repositories you have access to.
Search by author
The author qualifier finds issues and pull requests created by a certain user or integration account.
QualifierExampleauthor:USERNAMEcool author:gjtorikian matches issues and pull requests with the word "cool" that were created by @gjtorikian.bootstrap in:body author:mdo matches issues written by @mdo that contain the word "bootstrap" in the body.author:app/USERNAMEauthor:app/robot matches issues created by the integration account named "robot."
Search by assignee
The assignee qualifier finds issues and pull requests that are assigned to a certain user. You cannot search for issues and pull requests that have any assignee, however, you can search for issues and pull requests that have no assignee.
QualifierExampleassignee:USERNAMEassignee:vmg repo:libgit2/libgit2 matches issues and pull requests in libgit2's project libgit2 that are assigned to @vmg.
Search by mention
The mentions qualifier finds issues that mention a certain user. For more information, see "Mentioning people and teams."
QualifierExamplementions:USERNAMEresque mentions:defunkt matches issues with the word "resque" that mention @defunkt.
Search by team mention
For organizations and teams you belong to, you can use the team qualifier to find issues or pull requests that @mention a certain team within that organization. Replace these sample names with your organization and team name to perform a search.
QualifierExampleteam:ORGNAME/TEAMNAMEteam:jekyll/owners matches issues where the @jekyll/owners team is mentioned.team:myorg/ops is:open is:pr matches open pull requests where the @myorg/ops team is mentioned.
Search by commenter
The commenter qualifier finds issues that contain a comment from a certain user.
QualifierExamplecommenter:USERNAMEgithub commenter:defunkt org:github matches issues in repositories owned by GitHub, that contain the word "github," and have a comment by @defunkt.
Search by a user that's involved in an issue or pull request
You can use the involves qualifier to find issues that in some way involve a certain user. The involves qualifier is a logical OR between the author, assignee, mentions, and commenter qualifiers for a single user. In other words, this qualifier finds issues and pull requests that were either created by a certain user, assigned to that user, mention that user, or were commented on by that user.
QualifierExampleinvolves:USERNAMEinvolves:defunkt involves:jlord matches issues either @defunkt or @jlord are involved in.NOT bootstrap in:body involves:mdo matches issues @mdo is involved in that do not contain the word "bootstrap" in the body.
Search by label
You can narrow your results by labels, using the label qualifier. Since issues can have multiple labels, you can list a separate qualifier for each issue.
QualifierExamplelabel:LABELlabel:"help wanted" language:ruby matches issues with the label "help wanted" that are in Ruby repositories.broken in:body -label:bug label:priority matches issues with the word "broken" in the body, that lack the label "bug", but do have the label "priority."label:bug label:resolved matches issues with the labels "bug" and "resolved."
Search by milestone
The milestone qualifier finds issues or pull requests that are a part of a milestone within a repository.
QualifierExamplemilestone:MILESTONEmilestone:"overhaul" matches issues that are in a milestone named "overhaul."milestone:"bug fix" matches issues that are in a milestone named "bug fix."
Search by project board
You can use the project qualifier to find issues that are associated with a specific project board in a repository or organization. You must search project boards by the project board number. You can find the project board number at the end of a project board's URL.
QualifierExampleproject:PROJECT_BOARDproject:github/57 matches issues owned by GitHub that are associated with the organization's project board 57.project:REPOSITORY/PROJECT_BOARDproject:github/linguist/1 matches issues that are associated with project board 1 in @github's linguist repository.
Search by commit status
You can filter pull requests based on the status of the commits. This is especially useful if you are using the Status API or a CI service.
QualifierExamplestatus:pendinglanguage:go status:pending matches pull requests opened into Go repositories where the status is pending.status:successis:open status:success finally in:body matches open pull requests with the word "finally" in the body with a successful status.status:failurecreated:2015-05-01..2015-05-30 status:failure matches pull requests opened on May 2015 with a failed status.
Search by commit SHA
If you know the specific SHA hash of a commit, you can use it to search for pull requests that contain that SHA. The SHA syntax must be at least seven characters.
QualifierExampleSHAe1109ab matches pull requests with a commit SHA that starts with e1109ab.0eff326d6213c is:merged matches merged pull requests with a commit SHA that starts with 0eff326d6213c.
Search by branch name
You can filter pull requests based on the branch they came from (the "head" branch) or the branch they are merging into (the "base" branch).
QualifierExamplehead:HEAD_BRANCHhead:change is:closed is:unmerged matches pull requests opened from branch names beginning with the word "change" that are closed.base:BASE_BRANCHbase:gh-pages matches pull requests that are being merged into the gh-pages branch.
Search by language
With the language qualifier you can search for issues and pull requests within repositories that are written in a certain language.
QualifierExamplelanguage:LANGUAGElanguage:ruby state:open matches open issues that are in Ruby repositories.
Search by number of comments
You can use the comments qualifier along with greater than, less than, and range qualifiers to search by the number of comments.
QualifierExamplecomments:nstate:closed comments:&gt;100 matches closed issues with more than 100 comments.comments:500..1000 matches issues with comments ranging from 500 to 1,000.
Search by number of interactions
You can filter issues and pull requests by the number of interactions with the interactions qualifier along with greater than, less than, and range qualifiers. The interactions count is the number of reactions and comments on an issue or pull request.
QualifierExampleinteractions:n interactions:&gt;2000 matches pull requests or issues with more than 2000 interactions.interactions:500..1000 matches pull requests or issues with interactions ranging from 500 to 1,000.
Search by number of reactions
You can filter issues and pull requests by the number of reactions using the reactions qualifier along with greater than, less than, and range qualifiers.
QualifierExamplereactions:n reactions:&gt;1000 matches issues with more than 1000 reactions.reactions:500..1000 matches issues with reactions ranging from 500 to 1,000.
Search for draft pull requests
You can filter for draft pull requests. For more information, see "About pull requests."
QualifierExampleis:draftis:draft matches draft pull requests.
Search by pull request review status and reviewer
You can filter pull requests based on their review status (none, required, approved, or changes requested), by reviewer, and by requested reviewer.
QualifierExamplereview:nonetype:pr review:none matches pull requests that have not been reviewed.review:requiredtype:pr review:required matches pull requests that require a review before they can be merged.review:approvedtype:pr review:approved matches pull requests that a reviewer has approved.review:changes_requestedtype:pr review:changes_requested matches pull requests in which a reviewer has asked for changes.reviewed-by:USERNAMEtype:pr reviewed-by:gjtorikian matches pull requests reviewed by a particular person.review-requested:USERNAMEtype:pr review-requested:benbalter matches pull requests where a specific person is requested for review. Requested reviewers are no longer listed in the search results after they review a pull request. If the requested person is on a team that is requested for review, then review requests for that team will also appear in the search results.team-review-requested:TEAMNAMEtype:pr team-review-requested:atom/design matches pull requests that have review requests from the team atom/design. Requested reviewers are no longer listed in the search results after they review a pull request.
Search by when an issue or pull request was created or last updated
You can filter issues based on times of creation, or when they were last updated. For issue creation, you can use the created qualifier; to find out when an issue was last updated, you'll want to use the updated qualifier.
Both take a date as a parameter. Date formatting must follow the ISO8601 standard, which is YYYY-MM-DD (year-month-day). You can also add optional time information THH:MM:SS+00:00 after the date, to search by the hour, minute, and second. That's T, followed by HH:MM:SS (hour-minutes-seconds), and a UTC offset (+00:00).
Dates support greater than, less than, and range qualifiers.
QualifierExamplecreated:YYYY-MM-DDlanguage:c# created:&lt;2011-01-01 state:open matches open issues that were created before 2011 in repositories written in C#.updated:YYYY-MM-DDweird in:body updated:&gt;=2013-02-01 matches issues with the word "weird" in the body that were updated after February 2013.
Search by when an issue or pull request was closed
You can filter issues and pull requests based on when they were closed, using the closed qualifier.
This qualifier takes a date as its parameter. Date formatting must follow the ISO8601 standard, which is YYYY-MM-DD (year-month-day). You can also add optional time information THH:MM:SS+00:00 after the date, to search by the hour, minute, and second. That's T, followed by HH:MM:SS (hour-minutes-seconds), and a UTC offset (+00:00).
Dates support greater than, less than, and range qualifiers.
QualifierExampleclosed:YYYY-MM-DDlanguage:swift closed:&gt;2014-06-11 matches issues and pull requests in Swift that were closed after June 11, 2014.data in:body closed:&lt;2012-10-01 matches issues and pull requests with the word "data" in the body that were closed before October 2012.
Search by when a pull request was merged
You can filter pull requests based on when they were merged, using the merged qualifier.
This qualifier takes a date as its parameter. Date formatting must follow the ISO8601 standard, which is YYYY-MM-DD (year-month-day). You can also add optional time information THH:MM:SS+00:00 after the date, to search by the hour, minute, and second. That's T, followed by HH:MM:SS (hour-minutes-seconds), and a UTC offset (+00:00).
Dates support greater than, less than, and range qualifiers.
QualifierExamplemerged:YYYY-MM-DDlanguage:javascript merged:&lt;2011-01-01 matches pull requests in JavaScript repositories that were merged before 2011.fast in:title language:ruby merged:&gt;=2014-05-01 matches pull requests in Ruby with the word "fast" in the title that were merged after May 2014.
Search based on whether a pull request is merged or unmerged
You can filter pull requests based on whether they're merged or unmerged using the is qualifier.
QualifierExampleis:mergedbugfix is:pr is:merged matches merged pull requests with the word "bugfix."is:unmergederror is:unmerged matches closed issues and pull requests with the word "error."
Search based on whether a repository is archived
The archived qualifier filters your results based on whether an issue or pull request is in an archived repository.
QualifierExamplearchived:truearchived:true GNOME matches issues and pull requests that contain the word "GNOME" in archived repositories you have access to.archived:falsearchived:false GNOME matches issues and pull requests that contain the word "GNOME" in unarchived repositories you have access to.
Search based on whether a conversation is locked
You can search for an issue or pull request that has a locked conversation using the is qualifier. For more information, see "Locking conversations."
QualifierExampleis:lockedcode of conduct is:locked is:issue archived:false matches issues or pull requests with the words "code of conduct" that have a locked conversation in a repository that is not archived.is:unlockedcode of conduct is:unlocked is:issue archived:false matches issues or pull requests with the words "code of conduct" that have an unlocked conversation in a repository that is not archived.
Search by missing metadata
You can narrow your search to issues and pull requests that are missing certain metadata, using the no qualifier. That metadata includes:
Labels
Milestones
Assignees
Projects
QualifierExampleno:labelpriority no:label matches issues and pull requests with the word "priority" that also don't have any labels.no:milestonesprint no:milestone type:issue matches issues not associated with a milestone containing the word "sprint."no:assigneeimportant no:assignee language:java type:issue matches issues not associated with an assignee, containing the word "important," and in Java repositories.no:projectbuild no:project matches issues not associated with a project board, containing the word "build."
Further reading
"Sorting search results"
    Did this doc help you?
    Want to learn about new docs features and updates? Sign up for updates!
    We're continually improving our docs. We'd love to hear how we can do better.
      What problem did you have?
        Required
        Choose an option
        Information was unclear
        The content was confusing
        The article didn't answer my question
        Other
      Let us know what we can do better
        Optional
      Can we contact you if we have more questions?
        Optional
      Send
    Thank you! Your feedback has been submitted.
  Help us make these docs great!
  All GitHub docs are open source. See something that's wrong or unclear? Submit a pull request.
    Make a contribution
  Or, learn how to contribute.
      Still need help?
      Ask the GitHub community
      Contact support
        Product
          Features
          Security
          Enterprise
          Case Studies
          Pricing
          Resources
        Platform
          Developer API
          Partners
          Atom
          Electron
          GitHub Desktop
        Support
          Help
          Community Forum
          Training
          Status
          Contact GitHub
        Company
          About
          Blog
          Careers
          Press
          Shop
        © 2020 GitHub, Inc.
        Terms 
        Privacy 
