                Bloggidy-Blog
                        vulcanrise:destroyallastro-men:what a fucking drama queen photos like these really emphasize how all the vulcans wore their best most dramatic outfits to this wedding ceremony/fight to the death, and spock rolled up in his work clothes and two plus-ones. 
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from egregiousderp (Originally from destroyallastro-men)
                                5,673 notes 
                                Source:
                                destroyallastro-men
                        thelastlonelywriter:The way Legolas and Arwen approach falling in love with a mortal is really, really funny to me becauseArwen: I will give up my immortality, and my chance to see my mother and father again, because I would rather die with you than live forever after you’re gone.Legolas, building a ship: Hey Gimli have you ever heard of this little thing called breaking and entering because we’re going to do it to heaven.
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from drbennedict (Originally from thelastlonelywriter)
                                5,255 notes 
                                Source:
                                thelastlonelywriter
                        choonchy:iamoutofideas:choonchy:I miss sleeping next to someonefucking idiot doesn’t even know the clone jutsu lolI hate how fucking funny this is
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from kyogre-blue (Originally from weedmemes42069)
                                288,029 notes 
                                        Reblogged 1 day ago from slow-clapping-in-the-distance (Originally from catchymemes)
                                9,925 notes 
                                Source:
                                catchymemes
                        dankmemeuniversity:
                                        Reblogged 1 day ago from thatsthat24 (Originally from dankmemeuniversity)
                                28,853 notes 
                                Source:
                                dankmemeuniversity
                        apatheticrobots:yodachiquito:The Animals - House of the Rising Sun (1964)Silver Jews - New Orleans (1994)wdhmbt’s tumblr post (undated)there are at least three houses in new orleans
                                        Reblogged 1 day ago from anodymalion (Originally from yodachiquito)
                                35,542 notes 
                                Source:
                                yodachiquito
                        dredsina:medusasstory:crunchbuttsteak:crunchbuttsteak:Minimum Wage should be indexed to 2% of a city’s median rent.And here’s why:Housing costs are the single biggest financial burden facing Americans today.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development define being cost-burdened as spending more than a third of your income on rent.  By that definition, over half of the households in this country are cost-burdened. SourceIf we want people to be able to afford to live in cities and not get priced out, we have to make a two pronged approach.  One is to build houses towards all incomes and price ranges, not just luxury condos.  And the other is a robust wage floor so people can actually afford to live.Fight for 15 is doing an amazing job and I love them, but we have to realize that is quite a few places, $15/hr still isn’t enough to live on.Which is where the 2% comes in.  It allows a minimum wage that is flexible with regards to the costs of living.And it wasn’t plucked out of thin air either:Rent should be a third of a persons income, or to restate the equation: income should be three times a person’s rent.And since a full time job is 8 hrs a day / 40 hrs a week / 160 hrs a month.So when you do the math, the ideal hourly minimum wage as a percentage of rent works out to around 1.875%, which for ease of calculation is 2%.Example minimum wages under a 2% rent rule:San Francisco: $67.40/hrNew York City: $56/hrBoston: $55.94/hrLos Angeles: $27/hrHouston: $21.38/hrSt. Louis: $18.22/hrBillings, MT: $17.16/hrI. That puts San Fran’s cost-of-living issue into perspective. Seattle, which has $15/$16 min wage: $40.14
                                        Reblogged 4 days ago from allfrogsarefriends (Originally from crunchbuttsteak)
                                70,934 notes 
                                Source:
                                crunchbuttsteak
                        math-is-magic:optimistic-night-lover:that-aro-asshat:enbies-and-felonies:suddenly-im-respecsable:getchapapes:angiethewitch:nonlinear-nonsubjective:hallowbethycas:impossiblerebelblaze:ask-the-egos:pomrania:pharoahamunsadji:mulaneysbutt:lizatonix:bobertlutece:this whole thing is way too good to be giffed you need to expirience it There are so many things that are TOP quality about this. The business with the mic rope. The bounding across the stage like an excited puppy or a newsie. The Voice™️ that is so synonymous with John, you know, the voice of a guy who sells ice cream at the soda fountain in the 50’s. The analogy itself.It’s all so beautiful, such peak humor and content.Emmy Award Winning™️I FOUND IT AGAIN.Here’s the “horse loose in a hospital” bit. Good news, it has closed captioning. “I DONT REMEMBER  THAT IN HAMILTON.”  OMGGod I’ve heard so much about this guy and this is my first time actually watching one of his bits. He’s as funny as y’all make him out to be tbhThis is my favorite video ever I’m going to be talking about this for the rest of my life. Because this? This is one of the defining pieces of culture from a time when life went from bad to worse. Everyone knows this sketch. Almost word for word. This four minute bit is carrying us through these times, and is probably the only piece of media to come directly from politics that is genuinely joyful.You simply cannot talk about this era without mentioning the horse loose in a hospital. It defines the entire experience, and does it hilariously.I fucking adore this man i love john edmund mulaney with my whole entire heart, and you may quote me on that i just realized that this is going to be something that people look at in like 50-100 years when talking about this era of american politics and people are going to be interpreting it and its probably going to be on someones fucking dbq like no no one outside of this time period will every ever be able to grasp just how accurately this describes EverythingTHAT’S WHERE IT COMES FROM“that’s what I thought youd say you dumb fucking horse”HORSE IN THE HOSPITALOHHH SO THAT’S WHAT THAT WAS ABOUTTTTReblogging this in honor of the horse being sent to the hospital.
                                        Reblogged 5 days ago from kaijuno (Originally from bobertlutece)
                                593,901 notes 
                                Source:
                                bobertlutece
                        twinklecupcake:adamtots:I’m posting spooky comics all month long on my Patreon! For a few seconds I thought the delivery guy had done it.Then I saw the order again.
                                        Reblogged 5 days ago from gehrmans-apprentice (Originally from adamtots)
                                45,657 notes 
                                Source:
                                adamtots
                        a-mediocre-time:For anyone beginning office life! 
                                        Reblogged 5 days ago from gehrmans-apprentice (Originally from wilwheaton)
                                110,483 notes 
                                Source:
                                wilwheaton
                    Next page →
                Let's Boldly Go.
I blog whatever catches my eye so expect anything and everything! And maybe a bit of nothing....
                    Ask me anything
                     My blog
                     All of Tumblr
                Follow on Tumblr
                        Following
                        RSS feed
                        Random
                        Archive
                        Mobile
            © 2013–2020 Powered by Tumblr
