	Stage (theatre)
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For other uses, see Stage (disambiguation).
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Stage" theatre – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (August 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  The stage of the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco.
  Stage of the Polish Theatre in Bielsko-Biała.
  Stage of the Polish Theatre in Warsaw.
In theatre and performing arts, the stage (sometimes referred to as the deck in stagecraft) is a designated space for the performance of productions. The stage serves as a space for actors or performers and a focal point (the screen in cinema theaters) for the audience. As an architectural feature, the stage may consist of a platform (often raised) or series of platforms. In some cases, these may be temporary or adjustable but in theaters and other buildings devoted to such productions, the stage is often a permanent feature.
There are several types of stages that vary as to the usage and the relation of the audience to them.[1] The most common form found in the West is the proscenium stage. In this type, the audience is located on one side of the stage with the remaining sides hidden and used by the performers and technicians. Thrust stages may be similar to proscenium stages but with a platform or performance area that extends into the audience space so that the audience is located on three sides. In theatre in the round, the audience is located on all four sides of the stage. The fourth type of stage incorporates created and found stages which may be constructed specifically for a performance or may involve a space that is adapted as a stage.
Contents
1 Types of staging
1.1 Proscenium stage
1.2 Theatre in the round
1.3 Thrust stage
1.4 Black box
1.5 Created and found spaces
2 Stage terminology
3 Scenographic theory
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Types of staging[edit]
Proscenium stage[edit]
Main article: Proscenium
Since the Italian Renaissance, the most common stage used in the West has been the proscenium stage which may also be referred to as a picture frame stage. The primary feature is a large opening known as the proscenium arch through which the audience views the performance. The audience directly faces the stage—which is typically raised several feet above front row audience level—and views only one side of the scene. This one side is commonly known as the invisible fourth wall of the scene. The proscenium arch evolved from the proskenium in Ancient Greek theaters. This was the space in front of the skênê or backdrop where the actors actually played.
The first indoor theatres were created in French tennis courts and Italian Renaissance palaces where the newly embraced principles of perspective allowed designers to create stunning vistas with buildings and trees decreasing in size toward a "vanishing point" on the horizon. Stage floors were raked upward slightly from front to back in order to contribute to the perspective illusion and also to make actors more visible to audiences, who were seated on level floors. Subsequently, audience seating was raked, and balconies were added to give audiences a fuller view. By the end of the 19th century, most stages had level floors, and much of the audience looked down on, rather than up to, the stage.
The competition among royals to produce elegant and elaborate entertainments fueled and financed the expansion of European court theatres. The proscenium—which often was extremely decorative in the manner of a triumphal arch—"framed" the prospective picture. The desire of court painters to show more than one of their perspective backgrounds led court architects to adapt the pin-rails and pulleys of sailing ships to the unrolling, and later to the lowering and raising, of canvas backdrops. A wood (and later steel) grid above the stage supported pulleys from which wooden battens, and later steel pipes, rolled down, or descended, with attached scenery pieces. The weight of heavy pieces was counterbalanced by sandbags. This system required the creation of a storage stage house or loft that was usually as high or higher than the proscenium itself. A "full-fly" stage could store the entire height of scenery above the visible stage using the pin-rails before or during performance, whereas a "half-fly" stage (common in smaller locations) could only store props of limited size and thus required more careful backdrop and scenery design. Theatres using these rope systems, which are manually operated by stagehands, are known as hemp houses. They have been largely supplanted by counterweight fly systems.
The proscenium, in conjunction with stage curtains called legs, conceals the sides of the stage, which are known as the wings. The wings may be used by theatre personnel during performances and as storage spaces for scenery and theatrical properties. Several rows of short curtains across the top of the stage, called teasers, hide the backdrops, which in turn are hidden above the stage in the fly system loft until ready for use.
  A mentalist on a stage apron in a mind-reading performance, 1900
Often, a stage may extend in front of the proscenium arch which offers additional playing area to the actors. This area is referred to as the apron. Underneath and in front of the apron is sometimes an orchestra pit which is used by musicians during musicals and operas. The orchestra pit may sometimes be covered and used as an additional playing space in order to bring the actors closer to the audience. The stage is often raised higher than the audience. Space above some proscenium stages may include a flyloft where curtains, scenery, and battens supporting a variety of lighting instruments may hang.
The numerous advantages of the proscenium stage have led to its popularity in the West. Many theatrical properties and scenery may be utilized. Backdrops, curtains and lighting can be used to greater effect without risk of rigging being visible to the audience. Entrances and exits can be made more graceful; surprise becomes possible. The actors only have to concentrate on playing to the audience in one direction.
Boxes are a feature of more modern stage designs in which temporary walls are built inside any proscenium stage, at a slight angle to the original walls, in order to allow audience members located to the left or right of the proscenium (the further out, the larger the angle) to see the entirety of the stage.[citation needed] They enable the creation of rat runs[clarification needed] around the back of the stage, which are when cast members have to walk between entrances and exits without being seen by the audience.
Theatre in the round[edit]
Main article: Theatre in the round
  The Circle in the Square Theatre in New York City
This type of stage is located in the centre of the audience, with the audience facing it from all sides. The audience is placed close to the action, which provides a feeling of intimacy and involvement.
In-the-round stages require special considerations in production, such as:
Scenery that does not obscure actors and the rest of the stage from parts of the audience.
Backdrops and curtains cannot be used, thus the director must find other ways to set the scene.
Lighting design is more difficult than for a proscenium stage, since the actor must be lit from all sides without blinding nearby audience members.
Entrances and exits must be made either through the audience, making surprise entrances very difficult, or via closed-off walkways, which must be inconspicuous. As a result, stage entrances are normally in the corners of the theatre.
The actors need to ensure that they do not have their backs turned to any part of the audience for long periods of time, in order to be seen and heard clearly.
Thrust stage[edit]
Main article: Thrust stage
See also: Traverse stage
  A thrust stage at the Pasant Theatre
A thrust stage is one that extends into the audience on three sides and is connected to the backstage area by its upstage end. A thrust has the benefit of greater intimacy between the audience and performers than a proscenium while retaining the utility of a backstage area. Entrances onto a thrust are most readily made from backstage, although some theatres provide for performers to enter through the audience using vomitory entrances. An arena, exposed on all sides to the audience, is without a backstage and relies entirely on entrances in the house or from under the stage.
As with an arena, the audience in a thrust stage theatre may view the stage from three or more sides. If a performance employs the fourth wall, that imaginary wall must be maintained on multiple sides. Similar to theatre in the round, the audience can view the performance from a variety of perspectives, and as such it is usual for the blocking, props and scenery to receive thorough consideration to ensure that no perspective is blocked from view. A high backed chair, for instance, when placed stage right, could create a blind spot in the stage left action.
Black box[edit]
Main article: Black box theater
A black box theater consists of a simple, somewhat unadorned performance space, ideally a large square room with black walls and a flat floor, which can be used flexibly to create a stage and audience area.
Created and found spaces[edit]
A stage can also be improvised wherever a suitable space can be found. Examples may include staging a performance in a non traditional space such as a basement of a building, a side of a hill or, in the case of a busking troupe, the street. In a similar manner, a makeshift stage can be created by modifying an environment. For example, demarcating the boundaries of a stage in an open space by laying a carpet and arranging seating before it. The theater company Shakespeare In The Park, in fact, is based around performing Shakespeare plays in a space that one wouldn't likely find it, namely, Central Park in New York City.
Stage terminology[edit]
  House right/left are from the audience's perspective
  View from stage right across stage to stage left.  Typical small stage (Albert Hall, Canberra) (2016)
The stage itself has been given named areas to facilitate the precise movement and positioning of actors on a stage (see Blocking (stage)).
To an actor facing the audience, "left" and "right" are the reverse of what they are for the audience. To prevent confusion, actors and directors never use the unmarked terms left or right for the sides of the stage. Rather, they use a phrase specifying the viewpoint. The terms "stage left" and "stage right", respectively, denote the sides of the stage that are on the actor's left and right when the actor is facing the audience, while "house left" and "house right" are the reverse, denoting the sides of the stage as viewed by the audience. In Germany, stage right and left are reversed, being the director's view rather than the actor's.[citation needed]
Less ambiguous terms used in theatres that follow a British tradition are "Prompt Side" or "P Side" (Stage left) and "Off-Prompt" or "O.P. Side" (Stage Right), relating to the traditional location of the Stage Manager.[2] In French, the terms "côté cour" (square side) for stage left and "côté jardin" (garden side) for stage right are used, in reference to the Théâtre des Tuileries.
Likewise, the meaning of "front" and "back" would be unclear because they depend on perspective. Instead, the term "upstage" is used to denote the part of the stage furthest from the audience or to motion away from the audience, while "downstage" denotes the portion of the stage closest to the audience or to motion in that direction. These terms were common in older theatres, which gave the audience a better view of the action by inclining the floor (known as a raked stage), so upstage actually was at a higher elevation than downstage.
A raked stage can vary in its incline; ten degrees is considered ideal[by whom?] for the audience and actor comfort.  A dancing surface incline is often different from an acting incline and can vary from three degrees to twenty degrees.[citation needed]
Scenographic theory[edit]
In relationship to approaches to scenography, Rachel Hann has proposed that there "are no stages without scenographics".[3] This is based on an argument that "all stages are also scenes"[4], which challenges the "deterministic assumption that stages precede scenography".[5] In this model, stages become manifest through the place orientating traits of scenographics (rather than the other way around). The implications of this are that all theatre is scenographic - even if it has no defined objects or 'setting' - as all theatre is performed on a stage. Hann summarises this position by using the hybrid 'stage-scene' when discussing the tensions between the histories of these practices, particularly with reference to original Greek skene as a physical tent or hut that ultimately shaped current conceptualizations of 'the stage'.
See also[edit]
Noh stage, classical Japanese theater
References[edit]
^ "Theatre Types". ia470.com. Archived from the original on 2010-07-10..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2016-07-05. Retrieved 2016-02-20.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Hann, Rachel (2019). Beyond Scenography. Oxon. and New York: Routledge. p. 78.
^ ibid. p. 3.
^ ibid. p. 63.
External links[edit]
 Media related to Stages at Wikimedia Commons
vteStagecraft and scenographyScene shopTheatrical sceneryFields
Set construction
Scenic painting
Scenic design
Rigging
Technical direction
Hardware
Batten
Curtains
Flats
Fly system
Platforms
Scenery wagons
Weights
Stage lightingFields
Lighting design
Lighting technician
Master electrician
Hardware
Barn doors
C-Clamp_(stagecraft)
Color gel
Color scroller
Cyclorama
Gobo
Lighting control console
Socapex connector
Stage pin connector
Top hat
Theatrical smoke and fog
Instruments
Beam projector
Ellipsoidal reflector spotlight
Fresnel lantern
Intelligent lighting
Parabolic aluminized reflector light
Scoop
Striplight
Spotlight
Accessories
Stage management
Blocking
Cue
Prompt corner
Prompt book
Other fields
Sound design
Theatrical property
Costume design
Theatrical makeup
Video design
 Outline
vteTheatreHistory
Greek
Roman
Medieval
Commedia dell'arte
English Renaissance
Spanish Golden Age
French Classicism
Neoclassical
Restoration
Augustan
Weimar
Romanticism
Melodrama
Naturalism
Realism
Modernism
Postmodern
19th century
20th century
timeline
Types
Drama
Play
Musical theatre
Comedy
Tragedy
Improvisation
Opera
Ballet
Regions
Persia
India
Japan
Korea
Poland
Stagecraft / Scenography
Cue
Curtain Call
Rehearsal
Stage
Theatrical constraints
Theatrical superstitions
Technical rehearsal
Technical week
Performance
Lighting design
Sound design
Set construction
Theatrical property
Costume construction
PersonnelManagement
Stage management
Technical director
production management
house management
company management
Technical
Carpenter (theatre)
Electrician (theatre)
Fly crew
Make-up artist
Property master
Pyrotechnician
Running crew
Spotlight operator
Stagehand
Theatrical Technician
Technical crew
Wardrobe supervisor
Design
Costume designer
Lighting designer
Scenic designer
Sound designer
Sound engineer
Video design
Running crew
Call boy
Production manager
Stage manager
Stagehand
Technical director
Theatrical technician
Carpenter
Fly crew
Electrician
Light board operator
Lighting technician
Spotlight operator
A2
Sound operator
Property master
Dresser
Wardrobe supervisor
Musicians
Musical ensemble
Orchestra
Pit orchestra
 Category
 Commons
 Wiktionary
 WikiProject
 Outline of theatre
vteTelevision productionMain / General
Audience
Broadcast network
History of television
Television crew
Television show
Television studio
Places
Central apparatus room
Changing room
Master control room
Network operations center
Production control room
Stage (theatre)
Transmission control room
Profiles
Celebrity
Director of network programming
Host
News presenter
Sports commentator
News director
Showrunner
Pre-production
Casting director
Costume designer
TV director
Assistant director
Location manager
Make-up artist
Production designer
Researcher
Set designer
TV producer
Television program creator
Executive producer
Line producer
Production manager
Writer
Head writer
Screenwriter
Script editor
Story editor
Production
Audio engineer
Boom operator
Camera operator
Cinematographer
Videographer
Character generator (CG) Operator
Studio floor manager
Graphics coordinator
Stage manager
gaffer
grip
Key grip
Dolly grip
Unit production manager
Production assistant
Gofer
Stunt coordinator
Technical director
Television director
Broadcast engineering
Technical director
Post-production
Sound editor
Foley artist
Composer
Colorist
Editor
Publicist
Visual effects artist
Types, formatsand genres
Beauty pageant
Broadcasting of sports events
TV commercials
Event television
Game show
Live television
Reality television
Television film
Documentary film
Mockumentary
Television show
Television special
Series
Animated series
Limited-run series
Miniseries
Procedural drama
Serial
Sitcom
Soap opera
Talk show
Late-night talk show
News
Breaking news
Debate show
News broadcasting
Political commentary
Traffic reports
Weather forecasts
Valuation
Audience measurement
List of television awards
Television content rating system
Television criticism
Technical
Broadcast reference monitor
Character generator
Digital on-screen graphic
Mixing console
Microphones
Multiple-camera setup
Outside broadcasting
Production truck
Professional video camera
Stage lighting
Lighting control console
Vision mixer
Issues
Agenda-setting
Censorship
Concentration of media ownership
Corporate media
Counterculture
Freedom of speech
Freedom of the press
Influence of mass media
Media activism
Media bias
Media manipulation
Public opinion
Regulation
Broadcast law
Bleep censor
Communications law
Entertainment law
Fairness Doctrine
Media policy
Media reform
Media regulation
Pixelization
Theory
Media culture
Media studies
Television studies
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Stage_(theatre)&amp;oldid=973384625"
		Categories: Parts of a theatreStage terminologyStagecraftHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles needing additional references from August 2012All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2011Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2011Articles with unsourced statements from May 2014Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2011Articles with unsourced statements from February 2011Commons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		БългарскиБуряадCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiÍslenskaItalianoҚазақшаLietuviųМакедонскиNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSicilianuSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 16 August 2020, at 22:56 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
