	Papal regalia and insignia
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Official items of attire and decoration proper to the Pope
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Papal regalia and insignia" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (March 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  The crossed keys symbolise the keys of Simon Peter. The keys are gold and silver to represent the power of loosing and binding. The triple crown (the tiara) symbolizes the triple power of the Pope as "father of kings", "governor of the world" and "Vicar of Christ". Pictured  above is the seal of the Vatican City[1] The gold cross on a monde (globe) surmounting the tiara symbolizes the sovereignty of Jesus.
Part of a series on theCatholic ChurchSt. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City
Overview
Pope: Francis
Hierarchy
History (Timeline)
Theology
Liturgy
Sacraments
Mary
Background
Jesus
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Ascension
Early Christianity
Peter
Paul
Fathers
History of the Catholic Church
History of the papacy
Ecumenical councils
Magisterium
Four Marks of the Church
One true church
Apostolic succession
Organisation
Holy See
Roman Curia
College of Cardinals
Ecumenical councils
Episcopal polity
Latin Church
Eastern Churches
Canon law
TheologiesDoctrine
God
Trinity
Father
Son
Holy Ghost
Consubstantialitas
Filioque
Divinum illud munus
Divine Law
Decalogus
Ex Cathedra
Deificatio
Realms beyond the States of the Church
Heaven
Purgatory
Limbo
Hell
Paschal mystery
Passion of Jesus
Crucifixion of Jesus
Harrowing of Hell
Resurrection
Ascension
Blessed Virgin Mary
Mariology
Veneration
Immaculate Conception
Mater Dei
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Dormition
Titles
Queen
Apparition
Mediatrix
Salvation
Baptism of desire
Divine grace
Outside the Church there is no salvation
Infused righteousness
Invincible ignorance
Justification
Means of grace
Merit
Mortal sin
Satisfaction
Moral influence
Sanctification
Synergism
Venial sin
Ecclesiology
College of Bishops
Deposit of faith
Infallibility of the Church
Mystical Body of Christ
Papal primacy
People of God
Perfect community
Subsistit in
Other teachings
Josephology
Morality
Body
Lectures
Sexuality
Apologetics
Amillennialism
Original sin
Hypostatic union
Predestination
Seven deadly sins
Beatific vision
Saints
Dogma
Texts
Bible
Old Testament
New Testament
Official Bible
Vulgate
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Peshitta
Apostles' Creed
Nicene Creed
Athanasian Creed
Catechism of the Catholic Church
Papal bull
Apostolic exhortation
Epistula Encyclica
Philosophy
Cardinal Virtues
Just war
Natural law
Catholic ethics
Personalism
Probabilism
Social teaching
Philosophy of canon law
Philosophers
Virtue ethics
Schools
Augustinianism
Scholasticism
Thomism
Scotism
Occamism
Christian humanism
Molinism
Neo-scholasticism
Worship
Liturgy
Mass
Divine Liturgy
Holy Qurbana
Divine Office
Liturgical year
Sacraments
Baptism
Penance
Eucharist
Confirmation
Anointing of the Sick
Matrimony
Holy orders
Prayer
Devotions
Bible
Biblical canon
Rites
Latin
Roman
Post-Vatican II
Tridentine
Anglican Use
Zaire Use
Gallican
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Eastern
Antiochene
Maronite
West Syriac
Syro-Malankara
Chaldean
East Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Byzantine
Armenian
Alexandrian
Ethiopic
Miscellaneous
Antipopes
Anti-Catholicism
Criticism
Deism/Pandeism
Ecumenism
Monasticism
Relations with:
Islam
Judaism
Protestantism
Societal issues
Art
Evolution
Health care
HIV/AIDS
Homosexuality
Music
Nazi Germany
Politics (in the United States)
Role in civilization
Science
Sex and gender roles
Slavery
the Age of Discovery
Links and resources
Index
Outline
Glossary
 Category
 Media
 Templates
 WikiProject
 Book
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portalvte
Papal regalia and insignia are the official items of attire and decoration proper to the Pope in his capacity as the head of the Roman Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State.
Contents
1 Regalia
2 Vestments
3 Choir dress
4 Ordinary dress
5 Insignia
6 Notes
7 External links
Regalia[edit]
  Pope Pius XII in papal regalia including the triregnum, falda and the mantum, while being carried on the sedia gestatoria and flanked by the flabellum
  Pope Leo XIII in papal regalia: The triregnum, falda, mantum, and the stole
The regalia of the papacy include the triregnum, a headgear with three crowns or levels, also called the triple tiara[2][3][4][5][6] or triple crown. "Tiara" is the name of the headdress, even in the forms it had before a third crown was added to it. For several centuries, Popes wore it during processions, as when entering or leaving Saint Peter's Basilica, but during liturgies they used an episcopal mitre instead. Paul VI used it on 30 June 1963 at his coronation, but abandoned its use later. None of his successors have used it. On his personal coat of arms, Pope Benedict XVI replaced the tiara with a mitre, but the tiara remains on the coat of arms of the Holy See and of Vatican City State.
The Ring of the Fisherman, another item of papal regalia, is a gold ring decorated with a depiction of St. Peter in a boat casting his net, with the name of the reigning Pope surrounding it. It was first mentioned in 1265 by Pope Clement IV, who wrote in a letter to his nephew that Popes were accustomed to sealing public documents with a leaden "bulla" attached and private letters with "the seal of the Fisherman". By the fifteenth century, the Fisherman's Ring was used to seal Papal briefs. The Fisherman's Ring is placed on the newly elected Pope's finger by the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church; on the Pope's death, the Cardinal Chamberlain used to deface and smash the Fisherman's Ring with a hammer as a symbolic representation of the end of the late Pope's authority.
Modern popes bear the Papal ferula, a staff topped by a crucifix, rather than a crozier, a bent pastoral staff styled after a shepherd's crook. The use of the papal ferula is an ancient custom, established before the thirteenth century, though some popes since that time, notably Pope Leo XIII, have used a crozier-like staff.
The use of other items of papal regalia has been discontinued, though they have not been abolished. The Sedia gestatoria, a portable throne or armchair carried by twelve footmen (palafrenieri) in red uniforms was accompanied by two attendants bearing the flabella, large ceremonial fans made of white ostrich-feathers. The sedia gestatoria was used for the Pope's solemn entrance into a church or hall and for his departure on the occasion of liturgical celebrations such as a papal Mass and for papal audiences. The use of the flabella was discontinued by Pope Paul VI, and that of the sedia gestatoria by Pope John Paul II.
Vestments[edit]
  Pope Pius X wearing the papal vestments at the episcopal consecration of Giacomo della Chiesa (later Benedict XV)
  Pope Benedict XVI in papal vestments: The mitre, pallium, fanon, and the chasuble
The Pope wears the pallium over his chasuble when celebrating Mass. The pallium is a circular band of fabric about two inches wide, from which two twelve-inch-long pendants hang down, one in the front and one in back. It is ornamented with six small, black crosses distributed about the shoulders, breast and back, and is fixed in place by three golden pins, symbolic of the nails with which Christ was crucified. Only the pope wears the pallium by right, and he may wear it at all ecclesiastical functions without restriction. In the Latin/Western rite of the church, metropolitans (that is, archbishops who are the senior bishops of an ecclesiastical province) also wear a form of the pallium within their own province, and which they must receive from the pope, either personally or in a ceremony at which another bishop delegated by the pope presides. Pope Benedict XVI, for his inauguration in 2005, introduced a special type of pallium that is worn only by the pope. The new papal pallium is based upon the earlier form of the pallium, similar to the omophorion which is still worn by Eastern Christian bishops. The papal pallium is wider and longer than the ordinary pallium, and has red crosses on it.  On the Feast of Sts. Peter and Paul in 2014, Pope Francis returned to the use of the usual black pallium.
A vestment which is restricted to the pope alone is the Fanon made out of alternating silver and gold stripes. The fanon is similar to a shawl, one end of which is passed under the stole and the second over the chasuble; the pallium is then placed over the fanon. The fanon has gone out of common use, but Popes John Paul II and Benedict XVI wore the fanon on a few occasions.
Prior to the liturgical reforms of the Second Vatican Council, there were a number of other vestments which were worn only by the pope:
The Sub-cinctorium—a strip of embroidered fabric similar to a maniple which was suspended from the cincture. It was embroidered with a cross and the Agnus Dei.
The Falda—a particular papal vestment which forms a long skirt extending beneath the hem of the alb. The skirts of the falda were so long that the pope had train-bearers both in front and in back whenever he walked.
The Mantum—a very long cope worn only by the pope. Originally, it was red in color, but later was made to correspond to the liturgical colours.
When the pope would stand on his throne or at the sedia gestatoria, both the falda and the mantum would flow down to the lower steps, and had the effect of making the pope look taller than the other dignitaries present. All three of these vestments were discontinued during the reign of Pope Paul VI.
A special maniple, much the same in form as maniples formerly worn by priests, but with intertwined red and gold threads to symbolize the union of the Eastern and Western Churches.
Choir dress[edit]
  Pope Benedict XVI wearing the papal choir dress: papal mozzetta, rochet, white cassock, pectoral cross and a red embroided stole
When not celebrating religious services, the Pope wears a cassock. Choir dress is worn when attending—but not celebrating—services, and formal occasions, such as audiences.
The most immediately noticeable feature is a white cassock and zucchetto (skull cap). The cassock used to have a train on it, but Pope Pius XII discontinued this custom. For convenience, the train could be folded up and fastened to the back of the cassock. He used to wear a tufted fascia (white sash-like belt fastened about the waist, the ends of which fall down past the knees and are often embroidered with the Pope's coat of arms), until Paul VI replaced it with a simpler fringed sash. Previously, the tufted fascia (terminating in gold tassels) was worn with choir dress, and the fringed fascia (terminating in a simpler gold fringe) was worn with ordinary dress.
Over his cassock the Pope will wear a lace rochet. Over the rochet is worn the red Papal mozzetta, a shoulder cape that has a collar and is buttoned all the way down the front. The red color is a vestige from the days when scarlet was the Papal color (white only became associated with the papacy after the Napoleonic Wars). The Papal mozzetta had a small hood on the back, which disappeared after Vatican II but has recently been restored. In wintertime, the Papal mozzetta is of red velvet trimmed with ermine (this also fell out of use after Vatican II, but Pope Benedict XVI began again to wear a winter mozzetta trimmed in ermine fur). In summer, the Papal mozzetta is of red satin. The Pope wears a pectoral cross suspended on a gold cord over the mozzetta. He may also choose to wear a red stole with gold embroidery over the mozzetta, even when he is not officiating at a service.
Traditionally during the Octave of Easter, the Pope wears the white paschal mozzetta, which is of white damask silk trimmed with white ermine. While the paschal mozzetta fell out of use during the pontificate of Pope John Paul II, it was returned to use in 2008 by Pope Benedict XVI.
Since the 13th Century many Papal portraits have shown the pontiff wearing the camauro, a red velvet cap which covers the ears, and is trimmed with ermine. The camauro fell out of fashion with the death of Pope John XXIII, but has recently been revived by Pope Benedict XVI.
Traditionally, he wears special red satin or velvet Papal slippers indoors, and red leather Papal shoes outdoors. The Papal shoes were traditionally red, though Pope John Paul II would sometimes wear black or brown leather shoes. Pope Benedict XVI restored the use of the traditional red Papal shoes, but Pope Francis has reverted to black shoes.
Ordinary dress[edit]
  Pope Francis in ordinary dress (white cassock with matching pellegrina and with white fringed fascia, pectoral cross, and white zucchetto).
  Pope Pius X in ordinary dress: zucchetto, pectoral cross, cassock, and the papal tabarro, that similar to the ferraiolo
The pope's ordinary dress (also called house dress), which is worn for daily use outside of liturgical functions, consists of a white cassock with attached pellegrina and girded with a fringed white fascia (often with the papal coat of arms embroidered on it), a pectoral cross suspended from a gold cord, red papal shoes, and a white zucchetto.[7][8] On more formal occasions, the pope may wear a red cape similar to the ferraiuolo except for its gold decoration. Alternatively, he may wear a red cape with a shoulder cape attached. Outdoors, the pope may wear the cappello romano, a wide-brimmed hat used by all grades of clergy. While most other clergy wear a black cappello romano, the pope's is usually red (although it may also be white).
Insignia[edit]
The insignia of the papacy includes the image of two Crossed Keys, one gold and one silver, bound with a red cord. This represents the "keys to the Kingdom of Heaven" (Matthew 16:19; cf. Isaiah 22:22) and is in many ways the quintessential symbol of the Papacy as an institution and of its central role within the Catholic Church. Jesus's statement to Simon Peter, "whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven",[9] is understood in Roman Catholic theology as establishing two jurisdictions, Heaven and Earth; the silver and gold keys are said to represent these two jurisdictions. The silver key symbolises the power to bind and loose on Earth, and the gold key the power to bind and loose in Heaven (another interpretation says that the silver key represents "binding" and the golden key represents "loosing").
The primary emblem of the Papacy is these two keys beneath a triregnum (Papal tiara). This symbol is used in several instances. The Pope's personal arms are surmounted by the aforementioned two keys in saltire behind the escutcheon (one key silver and one key gold, tied with a red cord), and above them the silver triregnum bearing three gold crowns and red infulae (the lappets which hang down from the back of the tiara and fall over the shoulders when it is worn).  This tradition goes back to the 15th century, the symbolism of the keys of Peter was first used by Pope Nicholas V (elected 1447).[citation needed]
The latest two Popes (as of 2013; Benedict XVI and Pope Francis) have replaced the tiara with a simple mitre on which is depicted the three tiered cross of the papacy, reminiscent of the three tiers of the tiara.[10] A listing of the coats of arms of the Popes can be found at: Papal coats of arms.
The yellow and white flag of Vatican City also makes use of this emblem on the right hand side in the white half of the flag. The yellow and white colours were first adopted in 1808 as the flag of the personal guard of Pius VII, when the other forces of what had been the Papal States were brought under Napoleon's control. The previous flag was red and gold, the traditional colours of the city of Rome. The 1808 flag was of course not that of Vatican City, which did not come into existence until 1929.
The coat of arms of the Holy See and that of Vatican City also use this papal emblem. The arms of the Holy See are blazoned: gules, two keys in saltire or and argent, interlacing in the rings or, beneath a tiara argent, crowned or. This means: on a red field are placed two keys, crossed as in the letter X, one gold, the other silver, bound by a gold cord placed through the rings, and, above the keys, a silver (white-coloured) tiara with gold (yellow-coloured) crowns. The arms of Vatican City are identical, except that the gold and silver keys are reversed[11] and the cord is red ("gules") and interlaced at the intersection of the two keys, as illustrated in Appendix B of the Fundamental Law of Vatican City State, 7 June 1929.[12]
The umbraculum (Latin form for little umbrella) is a canopy or umbrella (consisting of alternating red and gold stripes, the traditional colours of the city of Rome and so, until 1808, of the papacy) whose original function was quite simply to provide shade. As it was traditionally a royal prerogative to walk beneath a canopy, Pope Alexander VI began using the umbraculum to symbolise the temporal powers of the Papacy; it was formerly carried by a man standing behind the Pope.  It featured in the former arms of the Papal States. The practice of walking with the umbraculum has been discontinued, although it continues to feature in ecclesiastical heraldry and remains the insigne of a basilica, usually displayed to the right of the main altar. It is sometimes carried in processions as a sign of a basilica's dignity.  It also currently features in the Coat of arms of the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church: because the Camerlengo administers the property of the Holy See during a sede vacante, there isn't any papal insignia when there is not a Pope in office, and the umbraculum represents the powers of Holy See, which did not cease with Pope's death, since they are entrusted to the Church itself. (see figure below).
The coat of arms of Pope Francis
The coat of arms of the Holy See
The umbraculum, emblem of the Holy See during a sede vacante
The coat of arms of Vatican City.
Flag of Vatican City.
Notes[edit]
^ "Tiara". Holy See Press Office. 4 March 2001. Retrieved 16 September 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Stinger, Charles L. (22 September 1998). The Renaissance in Rome. p. 216. ISBN 978-0253212085.
^ Cicaj, Viliam; Seges, Vladimir; Bartl, Julius; Skvarna, Dusan; Letz, Robert &amp; Kohutova, Maria (15 January 2002). Slovak History: Chronology &amp; Lexicon. Bolchazy-Carducci Publishers. p. 285. ISBN 9780865164444. Cite uses deprecated parameter |last-author-amp= (help)
^ Flynn, Gabirel (31 December 2005). Yves Congar: Theologian of the Church. Peeters Publishers. p. 261. ISBN 9789042916685. Retrieved 16 September 2017.
^ Seldes, George (1934). The Vatican: yesterday, today, tomorrow. Taylor &amp; Francis. p. 97.
^ Brighenti, Kenneth; Trigilio, John, Jr. (1 January 2007). The Catholicism Answer Book: The 300 Most Frequently Asked Questions. p. 381. ISBN 978-1402208065. Retrieved 16 September 2017.
^ Lyman, Eric J. (14 March 2013). "18th-century tailor shop prepares clothes for Francis". USA Today. Retrieved 16 May 2017.
^ "Like Benedict, bookstore will be retiring papal figure". The Beacon News. 28 February 2013. Archived from the original on 24 May 2013. Retrieved 28 May 2013.
^ Matthew18:18
^ Lanza di Montezemolo, Mons. Andrea Cordero. "Coat of Arms of His Holiness Benedict XVI". Vatican Press Office. The Holy Father Benedict XVI decided not to include the tiara in his official personal coat of arms. He replaced it with a simple mitre which is not, therefore, surmounted by a small globe and cross as was the tiara.
^ "Vatican City (Holy See)". Flags of the World. 4 September 2017. Retrieved 17 September 2017.
^ "All. B. Stemma Ufficiale dello Stato della Città del Vaticano" [Fundamental Law of the Vatican City State] (PDF) (in Italian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 December 2013. Retrieved 17 September 2017.
External links[edit]
Procession with umbraculum by the collegiate chapter of the Basilica of Sts Peter and Paul in Gozo, Malta
vtePapacyEpiscopate of the bishop of RomeJurisdictionHoly See(Full communion)
Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Primacy
History
Vatican City (Index, Outline)
enclaved in Rome, Italy
Lateran Treaty 1929
along with extraterritorial properties of the Holy See
Headquarters
Vatican City:
Apostolic Palace
Papal apartments
Sistine Chapel
Cathedra:
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Major basilicas
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
TitlesPapal names
His Holiness
Bishop of Rome
Vicar of Jesus Christ
Successor of the Prince of the Apostles
Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church
Patriarch of the West
Primate of Italy
Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province
Sovereign of the Vatican City State
Servant of the servants of God
Symbols
Coats of arms
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
Cross
Keys of Heaven
Regalia and insignia
Rota
Umbraculum
Proclamations
Infallibility
Apostolic constitution
Bull
List
Encyclical
Apostolic exhortation
Ecclesiastical letter
Interdict
Activities
Arbitration
Deposition
Blessing
"Pontifical"
Urbi et Orbi
Conclave
List
Coronation
Consistory
Diplomacy
Inauguration
Mass
High Mass
Oath
Travel
Vestments
Camauro
Falda
Fanon
Ferula
Flabellum
Mantle
Mitre
Mozzetta
Pallium
Ring of the Fisherman
Shoes
Slippers
Sub-cinctorium
Tiara
List
Zucchetto
Transportation
Popemobile
Sedia gestatoria
Household
Camerlengo
Commander of the Swiss Guard
Chaplain
Palatinus
Papal majordomo
Gentlemen
Preacher
Prefect
Prelate of Honour
Prince assistant
Theologian
Staff
College of Cardinals
Cardinal
List
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Synods
Cappella Giulia
Sistine Chapel Choir
See also
Papal nobility
"Black"
Orders of chivalry
Pontifical academy
Pontifical university
in Rome
Pontifical colleges in Rome
Major Seminary
Swiss Guard
Papabile
Canonised popes
Legends
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Papal_regalia_and_insignia&amp;oldid=976894163"
		Categories: Holy SeePapal vestmentsRegaliaState ritual and ceremoniesHidden categories: CS1 errors: deprecated parametersCS1 Italian-language sources (it)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2013All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from September 2017All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2013
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Català한국어РусскийУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 5 September 2020, at 18:07 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
