	Baptist General Convention of Texas
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Baptist body in Texas
Not to be confused with Southern Baptists of Texas Convention.
Part of a series onBaptists
Background
Christianity
Protestantism
Puritanism
Anabaptism
Doctrine
Priesthood of all believers
Individual soul liberty
Separation of church and state
Sola scriptura
Congregationalism
Ordinances
Offices
Confessions
Key figures
John Smyth
Thomas Helwys
Roger Williams
John Clarke
John Bunyan
Shubal Stearns
Andrew Fuller
Charles Spurgeon
D. N. Jackson
James Robinson Graves
William Bullein Johnson
William Carey
Luther Rice
Martin Luther King Jr.
Billy Graham
Organizations
Baptist denominations
Baptist colleges and universities
Baptist World Alliance
vteThe Baptist General Convention of Texas (BGCT) is the oldest surviving Baptist convention in the state of Texas.  The churches cooperating with the BGCT partner nationally and internationally with the Southern Baptist Convention and with the Baptist World Alliance. In 2009, the BGCT began to also go by the name Texas Baptists to better communicate who they are.
Contents
1 Background
2 Unification
3 Divisions
4 Beliefs
5 Current status
6 Partner ministries
6.1 Universities
6.2 Boarding schools
6.3 Human services
6.4 Medical
7 See also
8 References
9 External links
Background[edit]
There were Baptists among the first Anglo-American settlers of Texas, but under Spain (and later Mexico), non-Catholic religious worship was prohibited. The first Baptist sermon preached in Texas was preached by Joseph Bays of Missouri as early as 1820. The first Sunday School in Texas was organized by a Baptist, Thomas J. Pilgrim, at San Felipe de Austin in 1829. Mexican authorities forced the Sunday School to disband and hindered the attempts of the earliest Baptist preachers.
The first Baptist church in Texas was organized in Illinois by Elder Daniel Parker. Parker visited Texas in 1832, and concluded that the Mexican laws clearly prohibited organizing a church in Texas. He also decided the immigration of an organized church into the state would not violate the colonization laws. To this end, he and several others constituted a church in Illinois, then traveled to Texas by wagon train, arriving in Austin Colony January 20, 1834. Parker held a strict predestinarian theology, as well as his controversial Two-Seed theology. Like those travellers, the church was named Pilgrim. This church, and those churches of like faith that followed, remained aloof from the majority of Baptists in Texas. Pilgrim church is the oldest Baptist church in Texas, and survives today as a Primitive Baptist church.
The first missionary Baptist church in Texas was organized at Washington-on-the-Brazos by Z. N. Morrell in 1837. The following year, Isaac Reed and R. G. Green formed the Union Baptist Church, about 5 miles north of Nacogdoches, Texas. This church, now known as the Old North Church, is the oldest surviving missionary Baptist church in Texas, and cooperates with the Baptist General Convention of Texas. After Texans achieved independence from Mexico, Baptists began to flourish in Texas. Many churches were formed in the days of the Republic of Texas. With the multiplication of churches came also the organization of associations. The first association was the Union Baptist Association, organized in 1840.
Unification[edit]
As the local associations increased, missionary Baptists became interested in cooperation together on the broader state level. In 1848 representatives from four associations met at Anderson, Texas, and started the Baptist State Convention of Texas. In 1853, the Baptist General Association of Texas was organized at Larissa in Cherokee County in east Texas. Other bodies were formed to serve their regions (and often due to dissatisfaction with the other bodies), such as the East Texas Baptist Convention (org. 1877 at Overton) and the North Texas Baptist Missionary Convention (org. 1879 at Allen). B. H. Carroll, pastor of First Baptist in Waco, was instrumental in getting the General Association, during its 1883 meeting, to propose that five conventions in Texas consider the expediency of uniting as one body. The North Texas Convention dissolved, and recommended its churches affiliate with the Baptist State Convention. The East Texas Convention also joined the state convention. In 1886, the Baptist General Association of Texas and the Baptist State Convention of Texas ratified the terms of merger and consolidated into one body called The Baptist General Convention of Texas. In addition to Carroll, other leaders in the merger included S. A. Hayden, J. B. Cranfill, J. B. Link, J. M. Carroll, R. T. Hanks, and G. W. Smith.
Divisions[edit]
The harmony of unification in the 19th century gave way to three major divisions in the 20th century—the S. A. Hayden controversy and the formation of the Baptist Missionary Association of Texas in 1900, the Fundamentalist–Modernist controversy and the formation of the Premillennial Missionary Baptist Fellowship by J. Frank Norris in 1933, and the conservative/moderate controversy and the formation of the Southern Baptists of Texas Convention in 1998. The body has nevertheless maintained a steady progress throughout the 20th century.
Beliefs[edit]
Baptist General Convention of Texas beliefs include Bible inspiration, the priesthood of the believer, the sanctity of life, the virgin birth of Christ, salvation through the death of Jesus Christ, and that Christ is the head of the church. The Convention accepts the 1963 Baptist Faith and Message (without the 1998 amendment) as its statement of faith.
Current status[edit]
The convention's offices are located in Dallas, Texas, though convention staff are located across the state. The president of the BGCT is Michael Evans and the Executive Director is David Hardage. According to its mission statement, the Baptist General Convention of Texas "encourages, facilitates and connects churches in their work to fulfill God’s mission of reconciling the world to Himself," and is active in evangelistic, educational, and benevolent endeavors toward achieving this goal. About 80 local Texas Baptist associations and 5,700 local churches cooperate with the Baptist General Convention. In October 2007, the Convention elected its first woman president, Joy Fenner of Garland, Texas.
Partner ministries[edit]
Universities[edit]
Baptist University of the Américas
Baylor University
Dallas Baptist University
East Texas Baptist University
Hardin-Simmons University
Houston Baptist University
Howard Payne University
University of Mary Hardin-Baylor
Wayland Baptist University
Boarding schools[edit]
San Marcos Baptist Academy
Human services[edit]
BCFS
Buckner International
Children at Heart Ministries
STCH Ministries
Medical[edit]
Baptist Health Foundation of San Antonio
Baptist Health System (indirect)
Baptist Hospitals of Southeast Texas
Baylor Scott &amp; White Health
Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas
Scott &amp; White Medical Center
Hendrick Health System
Hillcrest Baptist Medical Center
Valley Baptist Health System
BSA Health System (indirect)
See also[edit]
Christianity in the United States
References[edit]
Texas Baptists: A Sesquicentennial History, H. Leon McBeth (1998)
A History of Texas Baptists, by James Milton Carroll
Centennial Story of Texas Baptists, L. R. Elliott, editor
Encyclopedia of Southern Baptists, Norman W. Cox, et al., editors
Flowers and Fruits from the Wilderness, by Z. N. Morrell
Missionary Baptists in Texas: 1820-1998, by Oran H. Griffith
The Blossoming Desert: A Concise History of Texas Baptists, by Robert A. Baker
External links[edit]
Baptist General Convention of Texas—official Web Site
The Baptist Standard—official Web Site
George W. Truett Theological Seminary—official Web Site
Logsdon Seminary—official Web Site
Baptist University of the Americas—official Website
Baylor University—official Web Site
Dallas Baptist University—official Web Site
East Texas Baptist University—official Web Site
Hardin-Simmons University—official Web Site
Howard Payne University—official Web Site
Houston Baptist University—official Web Site
University of Mary Hardin-Baylor—official Web Site
Wayland Baptist University—official Web Site
Singing Women of Southeast Texas—official Website
vteSouthern Baptist State and Affiliated ConventionsState Conventions
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Dakota
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas-Nebraska
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maryland/Delaware
Michigan
Minnesota / Wisconsin
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nevada
New England
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
Northwest
Ohio
Oklahoma
Pennsylvania/South Jersey
South Carolina
Tennessee
Texas
General
Southern
Utah-Idaho
Virginia
General
Conservatives
West Virginia
Wyoming
Affiliated Conventions
Canadian National Baptist Convention
Convention of Southern Baptists of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands
International Baptist Convention
vteBaptist World Alliance member bodiesAfricaCentral and Eastern AfricaBurundi
Free Baptist Churches of Burundi
Union of Baptist Churches in Burundi
Central African Republic
Association of Baptist Churches of the Central African Republic
Baptist Churches Union (UEB)
Evangelical Baptist Church of the Central African Republic
Fraternal Union of Baptist Churches
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Baptist Community in Central Africa (CBCA)
Baptist Community of the Congo River
Baptist Community of Congo
Baptist Evangelical Convention of Congo (CBECO)
Community of Autonomous Baptist Churches-Wamba-Bakali
Community of Baptist Churches in Eastern Congo (CEBCE)
Community of Baptist Churches Union of Congo (CUEBC)
Community of Baptist Churches in North Congo (CBCN)
Community of United Baptist Churches (CEBU)
Union of Baptist Churches in Congo (UEBCO)
Ethiopia
Baptist Evangelical Association of Ethiopia
Ethiopian Addis Kidan Baptist Church
Kenya
Baptist Convention of Kenya
Madagascar
Association of Bible Baptist Churches in Madagascar
Republic of Congo
Baptist Community of the Congo River
Rwanda
Association of Baptist Churches in Rwanda
Community of Christian Churches in Africa (CECA)
Reformed Baptist Convention in Rwanda
Union of Baptist Churches in Rwanda
South Sudan
Baptist Convention of South Sudan
Sudan
Sudan Interior Church
Tanzania
Baptist Convention of Tanzania
Uganda
Baptist Union of Uganda
Uganda Baptist Convention
Southern AfricaAngola
Baptist Convention of Angola
Baptist Evangelical Church in Angola
Free Baptist Church in Angola
Botswana
Baptist Convention of Botswana
Madagascar
Association of Bible Baptist Churches in Madagascar
Malawi
African Baptist Assembly, Malawi, Inc
Baptist Convention of Malawi
Evangelical Baptist Church of Malawi
Mozambique
Baptist Convention of Mozambique
Namibia
Baptist Convention of Namibia
South Africa
Baptist Association of South Africa
Baptist Convention of South Africa
Baptist Mission of South Africa
Baptist Union of Southern Africa
Zambia
Baptist Convention of Zambia
Baptist Fellowship of Zambia
Baptist Union of Zambia
Zimbabwe
Baptist Convention of Zimbabwe
Baptist Union of Zimbabwe
National Baptist Convention of Zimbabwe
United Baptist Church of Zimbabwe
Western AfricaBenin
Union of Protestant Baptist Churches in Benin
Burkina Faso
Union of Evangelical Baptist Churches Burkina Faso
Cameroon
Cameroon Baptist Convention
Cameroon Baptist Church
Union of Baptist Churches in Cameroon
Gambia
Baptist Union in the Gambia
Ghana
Ghana Baptist Convention
Ivory Coast
Union of Missionary Baptist Churches in Ivory Coast
Liberia
Liberia Baptist Missionary and Educational Convention
Nigeria
Mambilla Baptist Convention
Nigerian Baptist Convention
Sierra Leone
Baptist Convention of Sierra Leone
Togo
Togo Baptist Convention
Asia and PacificNorth East AsiaChina - Hong Kong
Baptist Convention of Hong Kong
China - Macau
Macau Baptist Convention
Japan
Japan Baptist Conference
Japan Baptist Convention
Japan Baptist Union
Okinawa Baptist Convention
South Korea
Korea Baptist Convention
Taiwan
Chinese Baptist Convention
West and South AsiaBangladesh
Bangladesh Baptist Church Fellowship
Bangladesh Baptist Church Sangha
Garo Baptist Convention
India
Assam Baptist Convention
Baptist Church of Mizoram
Baptist Union of North India
Bengal Baptist Union
Bengal Orissa Bihar Baptist Churches Association (BOBBCA)
Bengal Orissa Bihar Baptist Convention
Convention of Baptist Churches of the Northern Circars
Evangelical Baptist Convention of India
Garo Baptist Convention
India Association of General Baptists
India Baptist Convention
Karbi-Anglong Baptist Convention
Karnataka Baptist Convention
Lairam Jesus Christ Baptist Church (LIKBK)
Lower Assam Baptist Union
Maharashtra Baptist Society
Manipur Baptist Convention
Nagaland Baptist Church Council
North Bank Baptist Christian Association
Orissa Baptist Evangelistic Crusade (OBEC)
Samavesam of Telugu Baptist Churches
Tripura Baptist Christian Union
Nepal
Nepal Baptist Church Council
Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka Baptist Sangamaya
South East AsiaAustralia
Australian Baptist Ministries
Australasian Conference of Seventh Day Baptists
Cambodia
Cambodia Baptist Union
Fiji
Fiji Baptist Convention
Indonesia
Convention of Indonesian Baptist Churches
The Fellowship of Baptist Churches of Papua
Union of Indonesian Baptist Churches
Malaysia
Malaysia Baptist Convention
Myanmar
Myanmar Baptist Convention (Chin Baptist Convention, Kachin Baptist Convention, Karen Baptist Convention)
New Zealand
Baptist Union of New Zealand
Papua New Guinea
Baptist Union of Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Baptist Conference of the Philippines
Convention of Philippine Baptist Churches
Convention of Visayas and Mindanao of Southern Baptist Churches
General Baptist Churches of the Philippines, Inc.
Luzon Convention of Southern Baptist Churches, Inc.
Singapore
Singapore Baptist Convention
Thailand
12th District of Church of Christ in Thailand
Thailand Baptist Convention
Thailand Karen Baptist Convention
Thailand Lahu Baptist Convention
Vietnam
Baptist Churches in Vietnam
EuropeEastern EuropeArmenia
Union of Evangelical Christian Baptist Churches of Armenia
Azerbaijan
Union of Evangelical Christians-Baptists of Azerbaijan
Belarus
Union of Evangelical Christian Baptists of Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Baptist Church in Bosnia/Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Baptist Union of Bulgaria
Croatia
Baptist Union of Croatia
Czech Republic
Baptist Union in the Czech Republic
Estonia
Union of  Free Evangelical &amp; Baptist Churches of Estonia
Georgia
Evangelical Baptist Church of Georgia
Hungary
Baptist Union of Hungary
Latvia
Union of Baptist Churches in Latvia
Lithuania
Baptist Union of Lithuania
Moldova
Union of  Christian Evangelical Baptists of Moldova
Poland
Baptist Union of Poland
Romania
Baptist Union of Romania
Hungarian Baptist Convention of Romania
Russia
Euro-Asiatic Federation of Unions of Evangelical Christians-Baptists
Russian Union of Evangelical Christians-Baptists
Serbia
Union of Baptist Churches in Serbia
Union of Christian Baptist Churches in Serbia
Slovakia
Baptist Union of Slovakia
Slovenia
Union of Baptist Churches in Slovenia
Ukraine
All-Ukrainian Union of Associations of Evangelical Christians-Baptists
Uzbekistan
Union of Evangelical Christian-Baptists of Uzbekistan
Central Western EuropeAustria
Baptist Union of Austria
Belgium
Union of Baptists in Belgium
France
Federation of Evangelical Baptist Churches of France
Germany
International Baptist Convention
Union of Evangelical Free Church Congregations in Germany
Italy
Baptist Evangelical Christian Union of Italy
Netherlands
Union of Baptist Churches in the Netherlands
Portugal
Portuguese Baptist Convention
Spain
Union of Evangelical Baptists of Spain
Switzerland
Union of Baptist Churches in Switzerland
United Kingdom
Baptist Union of Great Britain
Baptist Union of Scotland
Baptist Union of Wales
Nordic countriesDenmark
Baptist Union of Denmark
Finland
Finland Swedish Baptist Union
Finnish Baptist Union
Norway
Baptist Union of Norway
Sweden
Baptist Union of Sweden
Latin America and the CaribbeanCentral America and the CaribbeanAntigua and Barbuda
Antigua Baptist Association
Bahamas
Bahamas National Baptist Missionary and Educational Convention
Barbados
Barbados Baptist Convention
Belize
Baptist Association of Belize
Bermuda
Bermuda Baptist Fellowship
Costa Rica
Federation of Baptist Associations of Costa Rica
Cuba
Baptist Convention of Eastern Cuba
Baptist Convention of Western Cuba
Fellowship of Baptist Churches in Cuba
Free Will Baptist Convention of Cuba
Dominican Republic
Dominican Baptist Convention
El Salvador
Baptist Association of El Salvador
Baptist Federation of El Salvador
Guatemala
Convention of Baptist Churches in Guatemala
Guyana
Baptist Convention of Guyana
Haiti
Baptist Convention of Haiti
Evangelical Baptist Mission of South Haiti
Honduras
National Convention of Baptist Churches in Honduras
Jamaica
Jamaica Baptist Union
Mexico
National Baptist Convention of Mexico
Nicaragua
Baptist Convention of Nicaragua
Panama
Baptist Convention of Panama
Trinidad &amp; Tobago
Baptist Union of Trinidad and Tobago
South AmericaArgentina
Argentine Baptist Association
Evangelical Baptist Convention of Argentina
Bolivia
Baptist Convention of Bolivia
Baptist Union of Bolivia
Brazil
Brazilian Baptist Convention
Convention of Independent Baptists
Chile
National Baptist Convention of Chile
Union of Evangelical Baptist Churches of Chile
Colombia
Colombian Baptist Denomination
Ecuador
Baptist Convention of Ecuador
Paraguay
Baptist Evangelical Convention of Paraguay
Peru
Baptist Evangelical Convention of Peru
Uruguay
Baptist Evangelical Convention of Uruguay
Venezuela
National Baptist Convention of Venezuela
North AmericaCanada
Canadian Baptist Ministries
Canadian National Baptist Convention
United States
American Baptist Churches USA
Baptist General Association of Virginia
Baptist General Convention of Missouri
Baptist General Convention of Texas
Converge
Cooperative Baptist Fellowship
District of Columbia Baptist Convention
General Association of General Baptists
Lott Carey Baptist Foreign Mission Convention, USA
National Baptist Convention of America, Inc.
National Baptist Convention, USA, Inc.
National Missionary Baptist Convention of America
North American Baptist Conference
Progressive National Baptist Convention
Seventh Day Baptist General Conference
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Baptist_General_Convention_of_Texas&amp;oldid=981730540"
		Categories: Organizations based in DallasBaptist Christianity in TexasReligious organizations established in 1886Baptist denominations established in the 19th century1886 establishments in TexasHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description with empty Wikidata descriptionAC with 0 elements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Русский
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 4 October 2020, at 03:12 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
