	RTL Klub
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Not to be confused with Club RTL.
Hungarian television station
RTL KlubCountryHungaryHeadquarters1222 Nagytétényi út 29. (Media Center Campona), Budapest, HungaryProgrammingPicture format1080i (HD)576i (SD)OwnershipOwnerM-RTL Zrt. (RTL Group)Key peopleGabriella Vidus, CEO Dr. Péter Kolosi, Programming DirectorSister channelsCool TVRTL IIFilm+Film+2Sorozat+RTL+MuzsikaTVSport KlubDoQ [hu]Fishing and HuntingHistoryLaunched7 October 1997; 23 years ago (1997-10-07)LinksWebsitehttp://rtl.hu/rtlklubAvailabilityTerrestrialMinDig TVChannel 7 (SD)CableVodafone TVChannel 31 (SD)Channel 32 (HD)DigiChannel 14 (SD)Channel 15 (HD)Tarr Kft.Channel 21/22 (HD)PR-TelecomChannel 11VidanetChannel 189 (SD)Channel 7 (HD)SatelliteDigiChannel 14 (SD)Channel 15 (HD)IPTVMagyar TelekomChannel 8 (SD)Channel 992 (HD)ExternetChannel 53
RTL Klub is a Hungarian free-to-air television channel (M-RTL Zrt.) and it owned by RTL Group. It was one of Hungary's first commercial TV channels and began broadcasting only three days after its main rival TV2.
Contents
1 History
2 Programming
2.1 Current
2.2 Original programming
2.3 Former
2.4 Former original programming
3 Sister TV channels
3.1 Cool
3.2 Film+
3.3 Film+ 2
3.4 Sportklub
3.5 RTL II
3.6 RTL+
3.7 Sorozat+
3.8 Muzsika TV
4 References
5 External links
History[edit]
Since its start, RTL Klub has focused to gain viewers from the urban population. The channel airs programs mostly for a younger (18-49) audience.
RTL Klub and TV2 aired two similar major reality series simultaneously. While TV2 purchased the rights of Big Brother, RTL Klub produced its own series called Való Világ (Real World). Való Világ had three seasons between 2002 and 2004. Since its second season the show has been much more successful than the rival Big Brother.
RTL Klub is the most watched TV channel in Hungary since 2002, thanks to the daily Hungarian soap opera Barátok közt (Among Friends), which is the most watched TV programme in Hungary with more than 2 million viewers; the tabloid magazine Fókusz (Focus) and the game show Legyen Ön is milliomos (Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?). Millionaire is off the schedule from September 2007 after seven years and has replaced by A Széf (Take It Or Leave It).
From the fall-winter season of 2005–2006, RTL Klub has started to broadcast popular American TV shows like Lost. The first episode of Lost had almost 2 million viewers, and a 50% share. This was a record. The next year Prison Break started with almost 1.6 million. Nowadays a TV show at prime time (21:00) can reach 1-1.5 million viewers. In season 2006-2007 Prison Break was the most watched American series in Hungary.
From the fall season of 2007, RTL Klub has launched two new formats with great success. Poker Face ran like a tournament for six weeks with an average 38-42% share. The other new show was Csillag születik, the Hungarian version of the RTL Got Talent format. Poker Face ended with the super final at 18 December and the time slot of it will be occupied by the new game show A Széf (Take It or Leave it).
RTL Klub was the only licensed broadcaster of Formula One in Hungary from 2002 until 2011. After 10 years RTL decided not to renew the licence for Formula 1. The reason was that they wanted to concentrate mainly for the prime time programs because of the shrinking advertising market.[1]
RTL Klub has been the only licensed broadcaster of Domino Day in Hungary, for 6 years (2004-2009).
From 2010, RTL Klub started with 2 winning formats. First of all the channel after 6 years absence successfully relaunched the Való Világ franchise. VV4 ran with a 40% SHR among 18-49 demographic.[2] Secondly they purchased the rights of television talent show The X Factor. The show ran with a 50% SHR[3] among 18-49 demographic which is really high on the Hungarian television market. The Factor crashed the competitor talent show on TV2 so "Megasztár" left the time slot of The X Factor after a few episodes. Because of the success of both format, RTL Klub renewed both show for the 5th and 2nd season respectively. They started in the fall season of 2011.
Programming[edit]
Current[edit]
Series name
Hungarian title
Current season/Last aired season
Arrow
A zöld íjász
2nd
Bones
Dr. Csont
9th
Breaking Bad
Totál szívás
3rd
Castle
Castle
5th
Cobra 11
Cobra 11
18th
Criminal Minds
Gyilkos elmék
8th
CSI
CSI: A helyszínelők
8th
CSI: Miami
CSI: Miami helyszínelők
10th
CSI: NY
CSI: New York-i helyszínelők
2nd
Dallas
Dallas
1st
Damages
A hatalom hálójában
3rd
Deutschland 83
Volt egyszer két Németország
1st
Esperanza mía
Isten áldjon, Esperanza!
1st
Fringe
A rejtély
3rd
Gossip Girl
Gossip Girl - A pletykafészek
2nd
Grey's Anatomy
Grace klinika
8th
Muhteşem Yüzyıl
Szulejmán
3rd
One Tree Hill
Tuti gimi
8th
Primeval
Őslények kalandorai
3rd
Revolution
Revolution
1st
Sons of Anarchy
Kemény motorosok
3rd
Supernatural
Odaát
6th
The Closer
A főnök
6th
The Following
Gyilkos hajsza
1st
The Glades
Glades - Tengerparti gyilkosságok
3rd
The Mentalist
A mentalista
6th
The Tudors
Tudorok
3rd
The Vampire Diaries
Vámpírnaplók
2nd
True Justice
Igazságosztók
1st
Original programming[edit]
Barátok közt (Among Friends): the most watched domestically produced television soap of Hungary. The show started in the fall of 1998, one year after the foundation of RTL Klub. The show remarkably resembles BBC soap-drama, EastEnders. Initially, it didn't have the expected ratings, however, bound by the contract, RTL Klub had to keep the show running. Since 2000, the third season, the show has been rarely beaten in ratings in its own timeslot. Today, the average rating of the show is about 2 million viewers, and it's a solid foundation of viewers the channel occasionally builds on. Each episode of the series is 10 minutes long, and every weekday two episodes are aired. In between the two episodes, there is a news session as well as the highest value commercial block in Hungarian television.
X-Faktor: the licensed version of the talent show The X Factor. The first season started in the fall season of 2010. Because of the great success the 2nd season started one year later. Season 3 started in fall 2012. Season 4 started 1 year later with 3 new judges and 2 new hosts.
Való Világ (Real World): the show is similar to the reality show Big Brother although there are some major differences between the two formats. VV first started on RTL Klub in 2002. At the same time the rival TV channel (TV2) purchased the rights of the successful Big Brother format. The 1st seasons of the 2 shows had similar ratings but BB was slightly ahead. Since the 2nd season VV crashed the rival format so BB moved to the late night time slot and died quietly. The 2nd season of VV was followed with a 3rd one which had great ratings again. (There was no BB3.) After the 3rd season of VV ended RTL Klub had the format rested for 6 years. In 2010 they relaunched the format with some changes. VV4 was followed by VV5 in 2011. VV6 started in Winter 2014 on RTL II and the channel continues it with a 7th season in Autumn. RTL Klub sold the format of VV to Czech Republic and Slovakia where the show was called Vyvolení. The Czech VV had 3 seasons while the Slovak had 2. In both countries VyVolení (the chosen one) won the time slot against Big Brother.
Csillag Születik (A Star Borns): the Hungarian licensed version of Britain's Got Talent. Four seasons have been aired in 2007, 2009, 2011 and 2012 respectively.
Fókusz (Focus) is a daily report magazine.  It is on the air since the foundation of RTL Klub. (1997)
Showder Klub is a stand-up comedy show, spin-off of former show of Sándor Fábry called Esti Showder. His programme goes nowadays on Duna.
Házon kívül (Outside the House): a political show, which deals with two or three current political events or social problems every week.
A Széf: A licensed version of Take it or Leave it. It began airing during the 2007 fall season.
XXI. Század (21st Century): a documentary series which usually deals with historical moments which happened in the 20th century. Recordings presented in the show usually originate from the communist era and therefore are black and white. RTL Klub purchases most of the presented material from Hungarian national television (MTV or m1).
Egy perc és nyersz:  (Minute to Win It): It is the licensed version of the American game show Minute to Win It.
A gyanú árnyékában (Cases of Doubts): It is a scripted docu-reality series started to air at the spring season of 2012. The series follows a documentary style. Every episodes deals with a family in some kind of trouble. The stories are based on real events. The characters are played by amateur actors. The second season started in the fall of 2012.
A kód (The Code) is the licensed version of the British game show The Exit List by Balázs Sebestyén. It had aired at the fall season of 2012 every weekday.
Házasodna a gazda: is the scripted reality series based on the format Farmer wants a wife. The first season aired during the fall season of 2012.
Éjjel-nappal Budapest (Budapest - Night &amp; Day): is a scripted reality series, licensed from German RTL II show Berlin Tag &amp; Nacht. Airs every weekday at 19.50 since February 2013.
Former[edit]
Series name
Hungarian title
Comment
Alias
Alias
Big Shots
Nagyágyúk
Burn Notice
Minden lében négy kanál
moved to RTL2 after 1st season
Chuck
Chuck
moved to Cool TV after the 1st season
Cold Case
Döglött akták
Day Break
Időbe zárva
Dirty Sexy Money
Édes, drága titkaink
Doctor Who
Ki, vagy, doki?
Series 1 &amp; 2 only
Dollhouse
Dollhouse - A felejtés ára
Dragon Ball
Dragon Ball
Dragon Ball Z
Dragon Ball Z
also on Viasat 6
E-Ring
Titkos Küldetés
ER
Vészhelyzet
Glee
Glee – Sztárok leszünk!
cancelled after first season
Human Target
Tökéletes célpont
Invasion
Rejtélyek városa
Jo
Jo, a profi
Joan of Arcadia
Isteni sugallat
Journeyman
Az utazó
Kingdom Hospital
A félelem kórháza
Kung Fu: The Legend Continues
Kung-fu
Legend of the Seeker
A hős legendája
Lie to Me
Hazudj ha tudsz
Lost
Lost – Eltűntek
last season was not aired
Martial Law
A harc törvénye
Missing
Eltűntnek nyilvánítva
Point Pleasant
Titkok Városa
Prison Break
A szökés
Private Practice
Doktor Addison
only the first 2 seasons were aired
Rescue Me
Ments meg!
Rome
Róma
Sailor Moon
Varázslatos Álmok
Last season not aired
Tatort
Tetthely
cancelled after 1st season
Sue Thomas: F.B.Eye
Sue Thomas: F.B.Eye
Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles
Terminátor: Sarah Connor krónikái
moved to Cool TV after 1st season
 The Secrets of Eden
Az Edèn Titkai
cancelled after 1st season
The Big Bang Theory
Agymenők
only the first 2 seasons were aired
The Finder
Csont nélkül
The Nine
Kilenc túsz
The Shield
Kemény zsaruk
The Sopranos
Maffiózók
The Unit
Az egység
Third Watch
Harmadik műszak
Transporter: The Series
A szállító
Traveler
Traveler - Az utolsó vakáció
Tru Calling
Tru Calling – Az őrangyal
Will &amp; Grace
Will és Grace
Former original programming[edit]
Heti Hetes ("The Weekly Seven"): a show where seven known Hungarian comedians (one host and 6 guests) talk about current news, politics and public life. The show was on air from the early years of RTL Klub and the 500th episode was the last to air there. The show moved in 2012's fall to the sister channel RTL II.
Legyen Ön is Milliomos: The licensed version of Who Wants to be a Millionaire. The series lasted nine seasons, hosted by Hungary's esteemed quiz host, István Vágó, but it was not going to be renewed after the licensor changed to RTL's major game show format. In September 2009, the show switched to a new format; the host was changed to Sándor Fábry,a well-known comedian in Hungary, and the players are always a pair of celebrities. It aired once a month but this format was not successful so the show was cancelled again. In March 2012 the show was rebooted again and returned with a new host, Sándor Friderikusz. It was aired once per week. The show moved in 2012's fall to the sister channel RTL II before being cancelled again in 2013.
Gálvölgyi Show: a parody show hosted by János Gálvölgyi, featuring short sketches which are parodies of TV shows, Hungarian and international celebrities, and commercials. The show also has several regular sketches, such as a conversation between two working-out rich men, which led to the birth of a decade-old Hungarian catchphrase "Gyúrunk vazze'" ("We're working out, damn it").
Kész Átverés (Total Scam): a show similar to the MTV's Punk'd where the host does pranks on Hungarian and currently visiting celebrities.
Esti Showder: a very popular talk show being broadcast every second week (except summer) at Thursdays 21:00. It loosely follows the format of NBC's The Tonight Show. The show features an opening session with the host cracking somewhat actualized jokes and rapidfire humorous monologues, followed by a regular session of Design Center, in which the host ironically presents absurd or downright ridiculous products created and sent to the show by viewers. After the design center, the show features a studio music session which presents successful or potentially successful Hungarian bands, and finally the show presents a talk session where Fábry sits down and talks to different Hungarian celebrities. After 11 years the show hasn't returned at the fall season of 2011. Fábry moved the show to m1.
Celeb vagyok...Ments ki innen!: the licensed version of British TV show I'm a Celebrity... Get Me out of Here! The 1st season premiered at the fall 2008. Before the first-season premiere the 2nd season was announced as well. The 2nd season had even better ratings than the first season. The show will return in Autumn 2014 on RTL II.
Vacsoracsata (Dinner Fight): the licensed version of Come Dine With Me.
Benkő Feleséget Keres (Benkő is looking for a wife): RTL Klub's 2009 fall season reality about a search for a wife for Hungary's scandalous artist, Benkő Dániel.
Balázs Show: a daily tabloid talk show, which aired every weekday at 16:30. The show followed a slightly more lightened up format than its counterpart, Mónika show. It ended in 2007 after years of success, cited reason being that the host became popular and wanted more serious challenges.
Mónika Show: a daily tabloid talk show usually featured and tried to resolve family issues. The former Hungarian local authority National Radio and Television Syndicate had often punished the channel belong to highly violent behaviour and bad language used by the guests the show. On 8 August 2012, RTL Klub got a 12-hours break penalty for the show.
Szombat Esti Láz (Saturday Night Fever): The show is based on the BBC One programme Strictly Come Dancing. In it famous Hungarian people dance with professional dancers. This show is also very popular. The 2nd-season finale had more viewers than the FIFA Football World Cup Final in Hungary. (Italy vs. France), it should however be noted that Hungary were not in the competition hence weakening interest. It had 3 seasons. 2 in 2006 (spring and fall) and 1 in 2008 (fall). The show returned in 2013 spring on RTL II.
Győzike: a documentary-soap about a Hungarian gypsy family. The head of the family called Győző Gáspár, husband and father of two girls, who is a pop/rap singer and he had a band but after the show started in 2005 the band broke up. It used to be a very popular show, bearing similarities to MTV's the Osbournes. It had 7 seasons but the return of the show is unlikely.
Pókerarc: The Hungarian adaption of the RTL format PokerFace. It debuted at November 2007 and broadcast every day at 19.00. At the end of the first season, before Christmas one player won 50 Million Ft. (200.000 Euro). The host of the game is István Vágó (the host of the previous game show Who wants to be a Millionaire? and Balázs Sebestyén (the host of Balázs show and Kész Átverés). The 2nd season started in fall 2008.
A Kísértés (The Temptation): the licensed version of Temptation Island. The show had one season on RTL Klub in 2004 and had moderate ratings and so it wasn't renewed for a second season.
A Rettegés Foka (Fear Factor): It is a licensed version of the American Fear Factor. It was cancelled after 2 seasons, reruns however are still aired on Cool TV.
Survivor – A sziget (Survivor - The Island): the licensed version of the famous hit reality show Survivor, whose international format rights are held by RTL. RTL Klub aired two seasons. The major difference between the Hungarian Survivor and the original one was the winner was selected by a public vote (via SMS or phone calls).
Szeszélyes (Capricious): a show similar to long-running Szeszélyes Évszakok (Capricious Seasons). After the cancellation of the original show, RTL Klub launched its own version with the host Imre Antal, which ran until Antal's death of cancer in 2008. The channel didn't renew the license for the show because it had considerably lower ratings than the original.
Csíííz!: the licensed Hungarian version of America's Funniest Home Videos.
Sister TV channels[edit]
RTL Klub has many sister channels. One of the owners of RTL Klub is "IKO Kábeltévé Kft.", which owned Cool, Film+, Sportklub (which ceased on 30 April 2016), Sportklub+ (which is a non-airing channel since 15 October 2009), DoQ (which closed on 31 March 2019), F&amp;H, Sorozat+, Poén! (which became Prizma on 20 December 2010 and RTL+ on 1 May 2014), Reflektor (which closed on 31 December 2012) and Film+ 2 (which was replaced by RTL Gold on 3 July 2017), all of which are in some way related to IKO's primary channel, RTL Klub. In July 2011, RTL Group acquired seven TV channels from IKO Kábeltévé (Cool, Film+, Film+ 2, Prizma TV, Sorozat+, Reflektor TV, Muzsika TV). Tematic Cable Entertainment bought Sportklub, DoQ and F&amp;H in 2013 from the RTL Group. Prizma TV airs since 1 May 2014 as RTL+.
Cool[edit]
Originally Cool had the target audience of 15-29 urban youths who love music, externals, clothes, trendy lifestyle and extravagance. The channel was launched on 15 September 2003 and it is available in 2.5 million households.[4] The channel is on a 24/7 broadcast schedule, targeting audience not only during the day, but during the night as well. Cool airs reruns of series RTL Klub originally purchased or produced as well as series targeting today's youth. These include: South Park, Married... with Children (Egy rém rendes család), 24, Footballer's Wives (Futbalista feleségek), The L Word (L), Queer as Folk (A fiúk a klubból), The Unit (Az egység), Dead Like Me (Haláli hullák), Weeds (Spangli), Skins (Skins), Desperate Housewives (Született feleségek)
In 2007, Cool launched a series of topical shows produced by the channel, such as Cool Live and Cool Night, featuring younger hosts lent to Cool by RTL Klub. The earlier is a youth lifestyle show, and the latter is an adult show including interviews with Hungarian porn stars and producers, as well as occasionally shown soft-core video clips. As of 29 September 2013[update], these talk shows are cancelled.
In 2009, Cool purchased the airing rights of the successful Hungarian version of Whose line is it anyway?, Beugró.
On 30 August 2010, Cool rebranded, opening for a wider audience. Since then the channel airs mostly crime procedurals like the CSI franchise, Bones, Castle, Cobra 11, The Mentalist, etc. The move was successful because as of July 2012, Cool TV is the third watched commercial TV channel, and most watched cable channel in Hungary (target audience 18–49, prime time 19.00-23.00), beating main competitor Viasat 3.[5]
On 1 December 2014, Cool rebranded to its current ident package, and from 1 January 2015 onwards, the channel is available in HD too.
Film+[edit]
Film+ was launched on 15 September 2003, the same time as Cool. The channel airs movies which previously aired on RTL Klub 24/7. According to the 2012 Hungarian television ratings, Film+ is the third-most-watched cable channel in Hungary.[6] Due to the early success of the channel, the parent company launched Film+ 2, which aired movies in the same fashion as Film+, but it closed on 3 July 2017 to make way for RTL Gold, a channel which airs old episodes of RTL Klub's old game shows and talkshows.
The channel is available in HD since New Year's Day 2015.
Film+ 2[edit]
Film+ 2 was a non-violent family channel. It launched on 2 April 2008. This movie channel was devoted partly to female audiences, and partly to family films during the evenings and weekends. It offered comedies, romantic films, adventures and dramas. In the RTL cable portfolio, Film+ 2 was the channel that broadcasts most Hungarian films.
It closed down on 3 July 2017 to make way for RTL Gold.
Sportklub[edit]
Sportklub was launched on 2 January 2006. RTL Klub purchased the broadcasting rights of the FIFA World Cup 2006 but it didn't have enough airing time for all of the matches, and therefore Sport Klub was launched by the parent company to fill in. Sportklub aired various sport activities, such as the French and Italian football league (as partner of Digi Sport), tennis, poker, NCAA, athletics, futsal and box. The channel reran the Formula-1 broadcast of the parent channel to 2011. It aired certain matches of the English and the Spanish league, however its main competitors, the sports channels run by the Hungarian public service television MTV, Sport1 and Sport2, have the first pick of the matches they would like to air. To ease up the load on Sportklub, the parent company also launched Sportklub+ in September 2007, which aired sports events deemed to attract less viewers than the parent channel, but it closed on 15 October 2009.
Sportklub closed down in Hungary on 30 April 2016.
Sportklub is also available in countries close to Hungary in which countries IKO also operates, including Romania, Poland, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia.
RTL II[edit]
In September 2011, RTL Klub started a project named RTL2 to launch a new RTL channel in Hungary. In April, 2012 it was announced, that RTL will launch RTL II in September or in October with I Love Gjoni (reality show); Who Wants To Be a Millionaire? (Hungarian version) and Heti Hetes (weekly comedy show on Sunday nights).
In July 2012, something started to promoted on RTL Klub with these sentences: The Life is Nice (Hungarian: Az élet szép.), The Sky is Blue (Az ég kék.), The Grass is Green (A fű zöld.), but it wasn't mentioned that these ads are advertising something. In September 2012, it was revealed that these ads advertised RTL2, the new commercial television channel what will launch on October 1, 2012 and it will replace Reflektor TV. In September, it suddenly became an Internet meme but bloggers and net users were disappointed when they got know the promotion is about "just" a new TV channel.
At the launch the prime-time schedule of RTL II included series: Modern Family, White Collar, Terra Nova, Journeyman, The Forgotten, Chase, shows moved from RTL Klub: Who Wants to be a Millionaire and Heti Hetes and a new magazine Forró nyomon.
RTL+[edit]
It launched as Poén! on 2 April 2008, then it was renamed as Prizma on 20 December 2010. Prizma's focus was on entertainment and its purpose was to provide something attractive for each generation. Most of its programming consisted of beloved familiars, but there were some new audience favourites, too. It airs as RTL+ since 1 May 2014.
Sorozat+[edit]
Sorozat+ is the channel for fans of series - for those who live in anticipation of the next episode. Sorozat+ offers something for each member of the family, from Latin-American telenovelas to top US series. It launched on 2 April 2008.
Muzsika TV[edit]
Muzsika TV is a music channel that offers a mix of traditional and modern pieces, featuring the greatest stars of folk and pop music as well as operettas and musicals. It launched on 6 November 2009.
References[edit]
^ "A Forma-1-ről is lemond az RTL" (RTL gives up Formula 1 rights) October 24, 2011.
^ Est.hu "Való Világ 4: Töretlen siker" (VV4: Great success) January 15, 2011.
^ Est.hu [1] "Az X-Faktor megeszi a Megasztárt reggelire" (The X Factor eats Megasztár for breakfast)] September 7, 2010.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-11-01. Retrieved 2012-07-15.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link).mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2013-06-05. Retrieved 2012-09-08.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ http://sorozatwiki.hu/news.php?readmore=75381
External links[edit]
Official Site (in Hungarian)
vteRTL GroupMediengruppe RTL DeutschlandGermany, Austria and Switzerland
TV
RTL
VOX
RTL Zwei[gl 1]
VOXup
Nitro
RTLplus
Super RTL[gl 2]
Toggo Plus
n-tv
RTL Crime
RTL Living
RTL Passion
GEO Television
Radio
RTL Radio
104.6 RTL
Antenne Bayern[gl 3]
Radio Hamburg[gl 4]
Radio NRW[gl 5]
105'5 Spreeradio
Radio 21 (Germany)[gl 6]
Radio Regenbogen[gl 7]
Big FM[gl 8]
Hitradio RTL Sachsen[gl 9]
Hit-Radio Antenne[gl 10]
Radio Brocken (50%)
89.0 RTL
Antenne Thüringen (15%)
Radio Ton (2%)
Rock Antenne[gl 3]
Sachsen Funkpaket (31/9%)
Radio Dresden
Radio Leipzig
Radio Chemnitz
Radio Lausitz
Radio Zwickau
Radio Erzgebirge
Vogtland Radio
Oldie 95 (4.78%)
Radio Top 40 (15%)
RTL NederlandNetherlands
TV
RTL 4
RTL 5
RTL 7
RTL 8
RTL Crime
RTL Lounge
RTL Telekids
RTL Z
Radio
RTL Lounge Radio
Catchup and Video on Demand
RTL XL
Videoland
M6 Group (48.6%)France
M6
W9
6ter
Paris Première
Téva
Série Club[gl 11]
TF6[gl 11]
M6 Boutique &amp; Co
M6 Music
M6 Music Black
M6 Music Club
Best of Shopping
Girondins TV
Gulli
Tiji
Canal J
MCM
MCM Top
Elle Girl TV
RFM TV
France
TV
RTL9[gl 12]
Radio
RTL
RTL 2
Fun Radio
RTL L'Equipe[gl 13]
RTL Belgium
TV
RTL-TVI[gl 14]
Club RTL[gl 14]
Plug RTL[gl 14]
Radio
Bel RTL (44.2%)[gl 14]
Radio Contact (44.2%)[gl 14]
Mint (44.2%)[gl 14]
RTL Luxembourg
TV
RTL Télé Lëtzebuerg
RTL Zwee
RTL9
Club RTL
Plug RTL[1]
RTL-TVI[2]
Radio
RTL Radio Lëtzebuerg
RTL Radio
RTL HrvatskaCroatia
RTL
RTL 2
RTL Kockica
RTL Living
RTL Passion
RTL Crime
RTL Croatia World
Magyar RTL TelevízióHungary
TV
RTL Klub
RTL II
RTL+
RTL Gold
Cool
Film+
Muzsika TV
Sorozat+
Video on Demand
RTL Most
AtresmediaSpain
TV
Antena 3 (HD)
laSexta (HD)
Neox
Nova
Mega
Atreseries (only HD)
Radio
Onda Cero
Europa FM
Melodia FM
Latin America &amp; Brazil
Gulli Brasil
Russia
Gulli Girl
Tiji
Fremantle (Production company)
Blue Circle (Television production)
Blu Productions
Fremantle Australia
Talkback
Thames
Hare and Tortoise
Boundless
Euston Films
UFA
Grundy UFA
Teamworx
Phoenix Film
^ joint venture with Tele München Fernseh, Heinrich Bauer Verlag and Burda.
^ joint venture with The Walt Disney Company.
^ a b joint venture with Amperwelle Studio München Programmanbietergesellschaft, Axel Springer AG, Burda, Studio Gong, m.b.t. Mediengesellschaft der bayerischen Tageszeitungen für Kabelkommunikation, Medienpool and Radio Bavaria Rundfunkprogrammgesellschaft.
^ joint venture with Axel Springer, Heinrich Bauer Verlag, Lühmanndruck Harburger Zeitungsgesellschaft and Morgenpost Verlag.
^ joint venture with Pressefunk Nordrhein-Westfalen and Westdeutscher Rundfunk.
^ joint venture with Funk &amp; Fernsehen Nordwestdeutschland, Antenne Niedersachen and Niedersachsen Radio.
^ joint venture with Mediengruppe Dr. Haas.
^ joint venture with Rheinland-Pfälzische Rundfunk.
^ joint venture with Broadcast Sachsen.
^ joint venture with Verlagsgesellschaft Madsack, Studio Gong Niedersachsen and Brune-Rieck-Beteiligungs.
^ a b joint venture with TF1 Group.
^ joint venture with AB Groupe.
^ joint venture with L'Équipe.
^ a b c d e f joint venture with TVI, LEMAIRE ELECTRONICS and Rossel.
vteBertelsmannRTL Group(75.1%)Media Group RTLDE (DE, AT, CH)
TV
n-tv
RTL
RTL IIJV
RTL Crime
RTL Living
RTL Nitro
RTL Passion
RTLplus
Super RTLJV
VOX
Radio
89.0 RTL
104.6 RTL
BigFM
Radio Hamburg
RTL Radio
RTL Netherlands
TV
RTL 4
RTL 5
RTL 7
RTL 8
RTL Z
RTL Crime
RTL Lounge
RTL Telekids
Radio
RTL XL
Videoland
M6 Group(FR; 48.6%)
TV
6ter
M6
W9
TF6
Paris Première
M6 Boutique &amp; Co
M6 Music
M6 Music Black
RTL9
Radio
Fun Radio
RTL
RTL 2
Belgium
TV
Club RTL
Plug RTL
RTL-TVI
Radio
Bel RTL
Radio Contact
Luxembourg
RTL TV
RTL Radio
Croatia TV
RTL TV
RTL 2
Hungary TV
Cool
Film+
RTL Klub
RTL II
Atresmedia (ES)
TV
Antena 3 (HD)
laSexta (HD)
Neox
Nova
Mega
Radio
Europa FM
Onda Cero
Fremantle
United Kingdom
Euston Films
Castlefield
Thames
Talkback
Boundless
Germany
UFA GmbH
Netherlands
Denmark
Miso Film
Australia
Eureka Productions (also in the United States)
United States
495 Productions
Original Productions
Random House Studio
Canada
Ludia
PenguinRandom HouseUSAKnopf Doubleday
Knopf
Doubleday
Everyman's Library (US)
Pantheon
Schocken
Vintage
Random House
Ballantine
Bantam
Dell
Del Rey
Dial
Modern Library
Spectra
Villard
Crown
Broadway
Harmony
Hogarth
Rodale
Three Rivers
Ten Speed
Watson-Guptill
Children's
Beginner Books
Golden
Penguin Adult
Avery
Dutton
Penguin
Putnam
Riverhead
Sentinel
TarcherPerigee
Viking
Berkley Publishing Group
Ace
Berkley
New American Library
Jove
Plume
Roc
Penguin Young Readers
Dial Young Readers
Dutton Children's
Firebird
Putnam
Grosset &amp; Dunlap
Philomel
Price Stern Sloan
Puffin
Warne
Information
Books on Tape
Living Language
The Princeton Review
Other
Sasquatch Books
UKEbury
BBC Books
Ebury
Del Rey
Rider
Virgin Books (90%)
W. H. Allen
Penguin General
Hamish Hamilton
Penguin Books
Viking
Penguin Press
Pelican
Penguin Classics
PRH Children
Ladybird
Puffin
Other
Cornerstone
Hutchinson
Random House
William Heinemann
Transworld
Bantam
Doubleday
Associated publishers
Andersen
Everyman's Library
Vintage Publishing
The Bodley Head
Chatto &amp; Windus
Harvill Secker
Jonathan Cape
Vintage
Canada
McClelland &amp; Stewart (Douglas Gibson Books
Tundra Books
New Canadian Library)
Germany
Blanvalet
Goldmann
Heyne
Luchterhand
Manesse
Prestel
Spain
Alfaguara
Bruguera
Ediciones B
Santillana
Other
Companhia das Letras (70%)
Dorling Kindersley
Alpha
PRH Publisher Services
Gruner + Jahr
Brigitte
Capital
Der Spiegel (25%)
GEO
Manager Magazin (24.9%)
Sächsische Zeitung (60%)
Stern
News (56%)
News
Profil
Prisma Press
Capital
Femme Actuelle
Prima
Voici
VSD
Motor Press Stuttgart
Aerokurier
Auto, Motor und Sport
Sport Auto
other assets
Alliant International University
Arvato
Brockhaus
Arvato Entertainment (Sonopress)
BMG Rights Management
Relias Learning
 Category
^ https://www.100komma7.lu/article/aktualiteit/qui-controle-les-chaines-de-rtl-belgique
^ https://www.100komma7.lu/article/aktualiteit/qui-controle-les-chaines-de-rtl-belgique
vte Television in HungaryDuna Média (MTVA)
M1 (HD)
M2 (HD)
M4 Sport (HD)
M5 (HD)
Duna (HD)
Duna World
TV2 Group
TV2 (HD)
Super TV2 (HD)
PRIME
FEM3
Mozi+
Spíler1 TV (HD)
Izaura TV
Zenebutik
LiChi TV
KiWi TV
TV2 Comedy
RTL Group
RTL Klub (HD)
RTL II (HD)
RTL+
Cool TV (HD)
Film+ (HD)
Film+2
Sorozat+
Muzsika TV
Disney Hungary
Disney Channel
Disney Junior
Disney XD
National Geographic (HD)
National Geographic Wild (HD)
BabyTV
WarnerMedia
Cartoon Network (Hungary)
Boomerang
HBO (HD)
HBO 2
HBO 3
Cinemax
Cinemax 2
ViacomCBS
Nickelodeon (HD)
Nick Jr.
Comedy Central
Comedy Central Family
RTL Spike
MTV
MTV Europe (HD)
MTV Rocks
MTV Dance
MTV Hits
VH1 Europe
VH1 Classic
Paramount Channel
Discovery Networks
Discovery Channel (HD)
Discovery Science (HD)
DTX
TLC (HD)
Animal Planet (HD)
Investigation Discovery
ID Xtra
Eurosport 1 (HD)
Eurosport 2 (HD)
Travel Channel
Food Network
Fine Living
Viasat World
Viasat Explore (HD)
Viasat History (HD)
Viasat Nature
NBCUniversal
E! Entertainment
Sony Pictures Entertainment
AXN (HD)
Sony Max
Sony Movie Channel
Viasat 3
Viasat 6
AMC Networks International
Sport 1 (HD)
Sport 2
Spektrum TV (HD)
Spektrum Home
TV Paprika
CBS Reality
Extreme Sports Channel
Film Mánia
Film Café
JimJam
Minimax
AMC
Network4
Film4
Galaxy4
Story4
TV4
Media Vivantis
LifeTV
OzoneTV
RCS &amp; RDS
DIGI Sport 1 (HD)
DIGI Sport 2 (HD)
DIGI Sport 3 (HD)
DIGI World (HD)
DIGI Life (HD)
DIGI Animal World (HD)
DIGI Film (HD)
1 Music Channel
H!T Music Channel
Tematic Cable
Fishing&amp;Hunting
DOQ
Sláger TV
SPI International
Sundance Channel
FilmBox
FilmBox Extra HD
FilmBox Family
FilmBox Premium
FilmBox Plus
Others
ATV (HD)
Hír TV
PAX TV
History (HD)
BBC Earth
Bonum TV
d1 TV
Hatoscsatorna
Euronews
FIXHD
Mezzo
Regional
Csepp TV
Csaba TV
DSTV Hungary
Főnix TV
Gyula Televízió
Kölcsey TV
Keszthely TV
Pannon TV
Williams TV
Defunct
C8
AXN White
AXN Black
Zone Club
Zone Romantica
Animax
Fox
VIVA
M3
Motorsport.tv
Echo TV
Megamax
Sport M
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=RTL_Klub&amp;oldid=982313700"
		Categories: RTL GroupTelevision networks in HungaryTelevision channels and stations established in 19971997 establishments in HungaryMass media in BudapestTelevision in HungaryHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataPages using deprecated image syntaxArticles containing potentially dated statements from September 2013All articles containing potentially dated statements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		CymraegDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolFrançaisMagyarNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsRomânăSlovenčinaSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 7 October 2020, at 11:45 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
