	Pulpally
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Pulpally" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (April 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Place in Kerala, IndiaPulpallyകരിമംElephant Squad office, KuppadyNickname(s): ഹുല്ലുള്ളിCoordinates: 11°47′35″N 76°09′54″E﻿ / ﻿11.793°N 76.165°E﻿ / 11.793; 76.165Coordinates: 11°47′35″N 76°09′54″E﻿ / ﻿11.793°N 76.165°E﻿ / 11.793; 76.165Country IndiaStateKeralaDistrictWayanadGovernment • TypeGrama PanchayathElevation742.5 m (2,436.0 ft)Languages • OfficialMalayalamTime zoneUTC+5:30 (IST)PIN673579ISO 3166 codeIN-KLVehicle registrationKL-73
Pulpally is a mid-sized town in Wayanad District of Kerala, India.Pulpally also known as 'The land of black gold'. Pulpally is also famous for its pure wild Wayanad honey.The only Seetha devi temple in Kerala is situated on Pulpally.Geographically a small town in Sultan Bathery Taluk and a "Grama Panchayath" under local self governance system. It is about 24 km from Sultan Bathery, and is almost surrounded by forest.The main source of income is agriculture.
Contents
1 Temples
2 History
3 Village without leeches
4 Economy
5 Places of interest
5.1 Major Colleges
5.2 Schools
5.3 Shopping
6 Places of worships
7 Chedattinkavu
8 Festivals
9 Transportation
10 Suburbs of Pulpally
11 Image Gallery
12 References
Temples[edit]
This place is famous for its Sita Devi temple which is one of the few in India devoted for Sita Devi. The icons of Lava and Kusa, children of Sita, are also installed here. It is believed that Sita Devi went into earth here. This place and the surrounding areas are believed to be the key places in the Hindu epic Ramayana. The temple festival which is celebrated annually in the month of January is famous and is attracts people from various parts of Wayanad.
History[edit]
About 7 km from Pulpally is the place of death of Pazhassi Raja who led the famous Pazhassi Revolt against the East India Company during the 18th century and was killed on 30 November 1805. The death place of pazhassi Raja is called mavilanthodu near vandikadavu.
Village without leeches[edit]
It is claimed to be the only place in Wayanad District not having leeches. There is a story behind this, Lava and Kusa were playing in the forest and a leech started troubling them. At that time mother Seeta Devi had seen it and cursed the leeches to not enter the boundary of Pulpally. The myth says that the name Pulpally came out from a " Parnasala made out of Grass", were Lava and Kusa were doing their education.
The entire community irrespective of cast or living standards in and around Pulpally will be giving offerings and participating the Sita LavaKusa Temple festival. Majority of the families were migrated from South Kerala in between 1950 and 1970's.
Pulpally is sharing the border with Karnataka, it's just 10 km away from the town. If the Karnataka and Kerala Governments works together for a Bridge between the Kabani River, it will be the shortest way to Mysore from Kerala.
The very famous Kuruva Island is just 10 km away from Pulpally
Economy[edit]
Agriculture is the main economic activity of people. Major crops are pepper, rubber, coconut, ginger, rice, vanilla. arecanut, and coffee. Even most of the people are dependent on pepper agriculture. Pulpally also known as 'The land of black gold'. Pulpally is also famous for its pure wild wayanad honey.
Places of interest[edit]
One of the main attractions of Pulpally is the Kabani River. Kabani is one of the three rivers flowing to the east in Kerala. Others are Pambar and Bhavani. The important places are
Seetha Lava Kusa Kshethram
Kurua Island
Edakkal Caves
Suchippara Waterfalls
Muthanga Wildlife Sanctuary
Pazhassi Tomb, Mananthavady
kabani river, perikaloor
pazhassi smarakam at mavilanthodu
Pakkam srambi
Kurumbalakotta
Major Colleges[edit]
Pazhassiraja College
SNDP Yogam Arts &amp; Science College
Jayasree Arts &amp; Science College
Schools[edit]
Vijaya Higher Secondary School
Government Higher Secondary School Kappiset
Jayasree Higher Secondary School
Devi vilasam Vocational Higher Secondary School-Veliyambam
St. Mary's Higher Secondary School - Mullankolly
St. Mary's English Medium High School
Marutha Vidyalayam English Medium High School
St. George LP &amp; Up School, Christ Nagar
St. George UP School, Elephant Rock.
Kripalaya Special School
Amrita School
Shopping[edit]
It's the local commercial hub for the domiciliates of the surrounding areas of Pulpally. All kinds of essentials such as Grocery, Textiles, Home Appliances, Electronics, Computers, Electricals, Building Materials, Stationary, Agriculture products, Heavy metals, Automobiles are available here.
Places of worships[edit]
St George Malankara Catholic Church Christ Nagar
Seetha Lava kusa Kshethram
Jadayatta Kavu
Town Church (Sacred Heart Church)
Town Juma Masjid
Sisumala Seetha Devi Kshethram
St.Marys Malankara Church Sisumala
Ferona Church Mullankolly
Veliyambam Kotta - Siva Kshethram
Sisumala Infant Jesus Church &amp; kurishumala
St. Thomas Marakav Church
Christian Brethren Assembly Pulpally Town
Christian Brethren Assembly kurichipatta,Chettapalam etc.
Assemblies of God - Penthacostal Church - Pulpally Thazathagadi
IPC - Indian Penthacostal Church - Aanappara, Pulpally
Church of God , Penthacostal Church , Thanitheruv, Pulpally.
Chedattinkavu[edit]
Pulpally is connected to the legend of Rama. It is believed that when Sita was abandoned by Rama, she reached Pulpally and was given shelter by the great Sage Valmiki. The place in Pulpally, where Sita gave birth to Lava and Kusa is called Valmiki Ashramam. Chedattinkavu is the original temple of Pulpally Temple. According to the legend Lava and Kusa the two sons of SitaDevi stopped and caught the horse, sent by Rama as part of the Ashwamedha. When Rama came to free the horse, he saw Sita and immediately she disappeared in the earth, her mother. While going down, her hair was caught by Rama and thus the name Chedattinkavu or Jadayattakavu to the spot. Chedattilamma (Sita devi) is the presiding deity of this temple along with Sapthamathrukkal. This temple is only 1 km away from the present Sita Temple. Nei (ghee) vilakku is a main offering here.
Festivals[edit]
The Machur village across the Kabani river has good tourist potential as it is in the very middle of forest area.[1] A large number of devotees come to visit the Gundara Dargah at Machur. The Veda Gowda tribe of Bavali area celebrate the Moori Abba or Ori Abba festival on the new moon day after Deepavali. Centuries ago, this tribe fled from Chitradurga district because of the persecution of Tippu Sultan. The purpose of this celebration is the prosperity of their crops. The festisval begins with nadi Pooja and a bullock race is also conducted. The bullocks are paraded before the Sree Basaveshwara Temple at Dodda Bairankuppa which is only 10 km away from the Kerala town of Pulpally. [2]
Transportation[edit]
Pulpally can be accessed from Mananthavady or Sultan Battery. The Periya ghat road connects Mananthavady to Kannur and Thalassery.  The Thamarassery mountain road connects Calicut with Kalpetta. The Kuttiady mountain road connects Vatakara with Kalpetta and Mananthavady. The Palchuram mountain road connects Kannur and Iritty with Mananthavady.  The road from Nilambur to Ooty is also connected to Wayanad through the village of Meppadi.
The nearest railway station is at Nanjangudu(Near Mysore)  and the nearest airports are Mysore airport 107 km (not for passenger flite)Kozhikode International Airport-120 km, Bengaluru International Airport-290 km, and   Kannur International Airport, 58 km. nangangud nilambur railway project and wayanad airport awaited..
Suburbs of Pulpally[edit]
Chettappalam, Prabhatnagar, Parakkadavu and Vandikadave
Madappalllykunnu, Seethamount, Chamapara and Vadanakavala
Vanamoolika, Mullankolly,  Anappara and Pattanikoopu
Perikkalloor, Vazhakkavala, Padichira and Kalandykolly
Thannitheruv, Surabhi Kavala-Alathur
Vettikkakavala, Sisumala, Kunnathkavala and Channothukolly
Sasimala, Perikkallore, Chekadi, Padiri and Pakkam
Dasanakkara, pakkam, kurichipatta, Veliyambam, Asramakolly and Kappiset
Cheeyambam, Amarakuni, Kabanigiri and Kolavally
Image Gallery[edit]
Cheeyambam Mosque
Mandapam
Sacred Tree
Oorpally, Payyampally
Pazhashi Memorial, Madappallikkunnu
Simhasana Cathedral
Kavu in Pulpally
Marakkadavu Kabini river
References[edit]
^ "KALLI VALLI : The killer of the wayanad : A walk back ,Man and Machine trip -day 2 Mananthavady-Mandya". kallivalli.blogspot.in. Retrieved 1 May 2016..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ http://www.indian24news.com/india/tribesmen-celebrate-moori-abba/64519-news
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Pulpally.
vteWayanad districtCities and towns
Sulthan Bathery
Mananthavady
Kalpetta
Meenangadi
Padinharethara
Panamaram
Pulpally
Vythiri
Sub-districts,panchayatsandvillagesKalpetta/Vythiri
Achooranam
Chundale
Kalpetta
Kaniyambetta
Kavumannam
Kottappadi
Kottathara
Kunnathidavaka
Kuppadithara
Muppainadu
Muttil North
Muttil South
Padijarethara
Pozhuthana
Thariode
Thrikkaipetta
Vellarimala
Vengapally
Mananthavady
Anjukunnu
Edavaka
Kanjirangadu
Mananthavady
Nalloornadu
Panamaram
Payyampally
Periya
Porunnannur
Thavinjal
Thirunelly
Thrissilery
Valad
Vellamunda
Cherukattoor
Thondernadu
Sulthan Bathery
Ambalavayal
Cheeral
Irulam
Krishnagiri
Kuppadi
Nadavayal
Nenmeni
Noolpuzha
Padichira
Poothadi
Pulpally
Purakkadi
Sulthan Bathery
Kidanganad
Thomattuchal
vteMalabar regionMetropolitan cities: Kozhikode, Malappuram, KannurStates/UTs
Kerala
Lakshadweep
Puducherry
Tamil Nadu
Districts
Kannur
Kozhikode
Lakshadweep
Mahe
Malappuram
Nilgiris (part)
Palakkad (part)
Thrissur (part)
Wayanad
Taluks
Alathur
Chavakkad
Eranad
Gudalur
Iritty
Kannur
Kondotty
Koyilandy
Kozhikode
Mananthavady
Mannarkkad
Nilambur
Ottapalam
Palakkad
Pandalur
Pattambi
Perinthalmanna
Ponnani
Sultan Bathery
Taliparamba
Thalassery
Thamarassery
Tirur
Tirurangadi
Vatakara
Vythiri
Municipal Corporations
Kozhikode
Kannur
Municipalities
Anthoor
Chavakkad
Cherpulassery
Feroke
Gudalur
Guruvayur
Iritty
Kalpetta
Koduvally
Kondotty
Kuthuparamba
Kottakkal
Koyilandy
Mahe
Malappuram
Manjeri
Mannarkkad
Mattanur
Mukkam
Nilambur
Ottapalam
Palakkad
Panoor
Parappanangadi
Pattambi
Payyanur
Perinthalmanna
Ponnani
Ramanattukara
Shoranur
Sreekandapuram
Tanur
Thalassery
Taliparamba
Tirur
Tirurangadi
Valanchery
Vatakara
Other towns
Alakode
Alathur
Amini
Andrott
Angadipuram
Anjarakkandy
Areekode
Azhikode
Balussery
Cherukunnu
Chundale
Devarshola
Dharmadom
Edappal
Irikkur
Kadmat
Kalliasseri
Kalpeni
Karipur
Kavaratti
Kodencheri
Kottappadi
Kunnamangalam
Kuttiady
Kuttippuram
Lakkidi
Lakkidi-Perur
Malampuzha
Mankada
Meenangadi
Meppadi
Minicoy
Muttil
Muzhappilangad
Nadapuram
Nelliyalam
O' Valley
Olavanna
Padinharethara
Panamaram
Pappinisseri
Pavaratty
Perambra
Peravoor
Pulpally
Sreekrishnapuram
Thamarassery
Thavanur
Thiruvambady
Thrithala
Vallikkunnu
Vengara
Vythiri
Wandoor
Historical regions
Arakkal kingdom
Chirakkal kingdom
Eranad
Kadathanadu
Kavalappara
Kingdom of Kottayam
Kingdom of Tanur
Kingdom of Valluvanad
Kolathunadu
Kurumbranad
Malabar District (North Malabar, South Malabar)
Nilambur Kingdom
Parappanad
Zamorin of Calicut
 India portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pulpally&amp;oldid=980780094"
		Categories: Sultan Bathery areaVillages in Wayanad districtCities and towns in Wayanad districtHidden categories: Use dmy dates from March 2019Use Indian English from March 2019All Wikipedia articles written in Indian EnglishArticles needing additional references from April 2020All articles needing additional referencesArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataCoordinates on WikidataPages using infobox settlement with no mapCommons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
		Languages
		تۆرکجه
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 28 September 2020, at 12:04 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
