	General Intelligence Presidency
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
General Intelligence Presidency (GIP)(ر.ا.ع) رئاسة الاستخبارات العامة الـسعوديةRi'āsat Al-Istikhbārāt Al-'Āmah as-SuʿūdiyyahSeal of the General Intelligence PresidencyFlag of the General Intelligence PresidencyAgency overviewFormed1955; 65 years ago (1955)Preceding agencyAl-Mabahith Al-AammahJurisdictionGovernment of Saudi ArabiaHeadquartersRiyadh, Saudi ArabiaAnnual budget$500 Million (as of 2006)[1]Agency executivesLt. Gen. Khalid bin Ali Al Humaidan, PresidentMaj. Gen. Ahmad Asiri[2], Deputy DirectorWebsitewww.gip.gov
The General Intelligence Presidency (GIP); (Arabic: (ر.ا.ع) رئاسة الاستخبارات العامة‎ Ri'āsat Al-Istikhbārāt Al-'Āmah), also known as the General Intelligence Directorate (GID) is the primary intelligence agency of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Contents
1 Leadership
2 History
2.1 Safari Club
2.2 Soviet Afghan War
2.3 Iran Contra affair
2.4 Cargo planes bomb plot
2.5 Syrian Civil War
2.6 Timber Sycamore
3 See also
4 References
5 External links
Leadership[edit]
The first president of Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah was Sheik Kamal Adham, who served from 1965 to 1979.[3][4] Then Turki Al Faisal served as the president of Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah until 2001.[5] Prince Turki resigned abruptly from his post tens days before the 9/11 attacks in 2001 (in which 14 Saudi nationals hijacked and crashed US commercial airliners) despite having had his appointment extended in May 2001 for another four years.[6]
Nawaf bin Abdulaziz replaced Prince Turki on 1 September 2001. The organization was renamed "The General Intelligence Presidency" during Nawwaf's tenure.[7] Nawwaf was relieved of his duty as the head of GIP by Crown Prince Abdullah on 25 January 2005. For nine months, nobody was appointed to head the presidency.[8][9]
Then, Muqrin bin Abdulaziz was appointed as head of the General Intelligence Presidency by King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz in October 2005.[10] Additionally, King Abdullah relieved Prince Saud bin Fahd of his duties as vice president of GIP.[11][12] Faisal bin Abdullah bin Mohammed was appointed as new vice president of GIP.[11]
On 20 July 2012, Prince Bandar bin Sultan was appointed director general of Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah, replacing Muqrin bin Abdulaziz.[13] Another Saudi royal, Prince Abdulaziz bin Bandar, who had been vice head of the directorate, was relieved from his post, and Youssef bin Ali Al Idrisi replaced him as vice head in October 2012.[14]
On 15 April 2014, Prince Bandar bin Sultan was removed from his position "at his own request" according to the announcement in the Saudi state media.[15][16] It was reported that He would be replaced by his deputy, Youssef bin Ali Al Idrisi.[17]
However, Khalid bin Bandar Al Saud became the director general of the Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah on 30 June 2014.[18] His term ended on 29 January 2015 when Khalid bin Ali Al Humaidan replaced him in the post.[19]
History[edit]
The role of intelligence was recognized by King Abdulaziz Al Saud who had used it in his unification of Saudi Arabia. His interest in modern communication increasingly grew when he set up the first radio communications system in Saudi Arabia. The kingdom started the intelligence service in 1955 under the name of Al-Mabahith Al Aammah.
During the reign of King Saud bin Abdulaziz, the General Intelligence was separated from the Mabahith (General Investigation Directorate). Intelligence was established as an independent security service with the issuing of the Royal Decree 11 in 1957 that ordered the setting up of a special department under the title of Maslahat Al-Istikhbarat Al-Aammah or (General Intelligence Department). During this period two branches of the Presidency were set up locally, the western branch in Jeddah, and eastern one in Dhahran.
The GIP expanded under King Faisal bin Abdulaziz, with the opening of offices abroad. The agency expanded its monitoring of internal threats after the 1979 capture of the Grand Mosque in Mecca.[20]
The GIP's charter was changed by King Khaled bin Abdulaziz in 1982, by Royal Decree M-5, dated 19 December 1982, which set out its responsibilities, duties, and the limits of its activities. This established the internal organization of the agency with a General Department for Operations, the General Department for Administration and Finance, the General Department for Training and Planning, and the General Department for Technical Affairs. Along with the National Research Center, and the Center for Media and International Communications (previously Center for Translation and Media). 
In 1997, the Office for External Communications was transferred to the Presidency from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Its name was also changed to the General Department for External Communications, and it was strengthened with the addition of high-tech equipment and specialists in radio surveillance. This period saw the expansion of the activities of the agency abroad with the establishment and development of more offices in other countries, and through more effort to organize its work.
During the reign of King Fahd bin Abdulaziz the Higher Committee for Development was set up and was chaired by the President of the General Intelligence Presidency; its membership consisted of the heads of the various departments of the GIP. Also during the tenure of King Fahd, the administrative structuring of the Information Center was approved.
In late January 2013, interior minister Prince Muhammad bin Nayef announced that Saudi women would be allowed to work at the directorate.[21]
Safari Club[edit]
Main article: Safari Club
The Safari Club was an alliance of intelligence services formed in 1976 that ran covert operations around Africa at a time when the United States Congress had clipped the CIA’s wings over years of abuses.[22] Its formal members were Iran, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Morocco and France. The group maintained informal connections with the United States.
The group executed a successful military intervention in Zaire in response to an invasion from Angola. It also provided arms to Somalia in its 1977–1978 conflict with Ethiopia. It organized secret diplomacy relating to anti-Communism in Africa, and has been credited with initiating the process resulting in the 1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty.
Soviet Afghan War[edit]
Main article: Soviet–Afghan War
The Soviet–Afghan War lasted over nine years, from December 1979 to February 1989. Insurgent groups known collectively as the mujahideen, as well as smaller Maoist groups, fought a guerrilla war against the Soviet Army and the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan government, mostly in the rural countryside. The mujahideen groups were backed primarily by the United States, Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan, making it a Cold War proxy war.
Iran Contra affair[edit]
Main article: Iran–Contra affair
This section is empty. You can help by adding to it.  (November 2016)
Cargo planes bomb plot[edit]
Main article: 2010 Transatlantic aircraft bomb plot
On 29 October 2010, two packages, each containing a bomb consisting of 300 to 400 grams (11–14 oz) of plastic explosives and a detonating mechanism, were found on separate cargo planes. The bombs were discovered as a result of intelligence received from Saudi Arabia's security chief. They were bound from Yemen to the United States, and were discovered at en route stop-overs, one at East Midlands Airport in the UK and one in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.
One week later, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) took responsibility for the plot, and for the crash of UPS Airlines Flight 6.[23] American and British authorities believed Anwar al-Awlaki of AQAP was behind the bombing attempts, and that the bombs were most likely constructed by AQAP's main explosives expert, Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri.[24][25] The bombs were probably designed to detonate mid-air, with the intention of destroying both planes over Chicago or another city in the U.S.[26][27] Each bomb had already been transported on passenger and cargo planes at the time of discovery.
Syrian Civil War[edit]
Main article: Saudi Arabian involvement in the Syrian Civil War
Saudi Arabia's involvement in the Syrian War involved the large-scale supply of weapons and ammunition to various rebel groups in Syria during the Syrian Civil War.
The Financial Times reported in May 2013 that Qatar was becoming a larger provider of arms to the various groups.[28] In the summer of 2013, Saudi Arabia emerged as the main group financing and arming the rebels.[29] Saudi Arabia financed a large purchase of infantry weapons, such as Yugoslav-made recoilless guns and the M79 Osa, an anti-tank weapon, from Croatia via shipments shuttled through Jordan.[30] The weapons began reaching rebels in December 2012 which allowed rebels' small tactical gains against the Syrian army.[30] This shipment was said to be to counter shipments of weapons from Iran to aid the Syrian government.[30]
Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar have received criticism from the Western Media for backing certain Syrian rebels associated with the Army of Conquest, which includes the al-Nusra front, an al-Qaeda affiliated group.[31]
In August 2017, the Syrian opposition was informed by the Saudi foreign minister that the Kingdom was disengaging from them.[32] Subsequently, Saudi Arabia has taken a more conciliatory stance towards the Syrian government.[33]
Timber Sycamore[edit]
Main article: Timber Sycamore
Timber Sycamore was a classified weapons supply and training program run by the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and supported by Arab intelligence services, including the security service in Saudi Arabia. Launched in 2012 or 2013, it supplied money, weaponry and training to rebel forces fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in the Syrian Civil War. According to US officials, the program trained thousands of rebels.[34][35]
See also[edit]
Mabahith – the Saudi internal intelligence agency
References[edit]
^ Cordesman, Anthony (2006). Saudi Arabia: National Security in a Troubled Region. Center for Strategic and International Studies. p. 234. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 9780313380761.
^ "Gen. Asiri named deputy head of General Intelligence; Ibrahim Al-Omar is new SAGIA chairman". Saudi Gazette. 26 April 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2017.
^ Baquet, Dean (30 July 1992). "After Plea Bargain by Sheik, Question Is What He Knows". The New York Times. Retrieved 26 February 2013.
^ "Prince Nawaf new intelligence chief". Arab News. 1 September 2001. Retrieved 6 April 2013.
^ "Prince Turki's resume". The New York Times. 2 August 2005. Retrieved 26 February 2013.
^ de Borchgrave, Arnaud (2 August 2005). "Saudi Arabian princes that match 007 and George Smiley". Mathaba. Archived from the original on 13 May 2015. Retrieved 26 February 2013.
^ Anthony H. Cordesman; Nawaf Obaid. "Saudi Internal Security: A Risk Assessment" (PDF). Center for Strategic and International Studies. Retrieved 21 April 2012.[permanent dead link]
^ Cordesman, Anthony H. (2009). Saudi Arabia: National Security in a Troubled Region. Santa Barbara, California: ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-0-313-38089-1.
^ "Prince Moqrin head of Saudi intelligence". Riyadh: UPI. 22 October 2005. Retrieved 6 April 2013.
^ "Prince Miqrin Appointed President of General Intelligence". SAMIRAD. 22 October 2005. Retrieved 10 February 2013.
^ a b Anthony H. Cordesman; Khalid R. Rodhan (2007). Gulf Military Forces in an Era of Asymmetric Wars. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 235. ISBN 978-0-275-99399-3. Retrieved 10 February 2013.
^ "King Abdullah: The First Hundred Days". Asharq Alawsat. 7 November 2005. Archived from the original on 12 December 2013. Retrieved 5 April 2013.
^ Knickmeyer, Ellen (20 July 2012). "Saudi Appointment Suggests Bigger Regional Ambitions". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 20 July 2012.
^ "Saudi Arabia replaces deputy chief of intelligence". Al Arabiya. 5 October 2013. Retrieved 10 February 2013.
^ "Saudi Arabia replaces intelligence chief". The Guardian. AFP. 15 April 2014. Retrieved 17 April 2014.
^ "Saudi intelligence chief Bandar bin Sultan Removed". BBC. 16 April 2014.
^ Ian Black (16 April 2014). "End of an era as Prince Bandar departs Saudi intelligence post". The Guardian. Retrieved 17 April 2014.
^ "Saudi Arabia's Prince Khalid bin Bandar named intel chief". Dhownet. 1 July 2014. Retrieved 1 February 2015.
^ "King Salman makes appointments". Royal Embassy, Washington DC. 29 January 2015. Archived from the original on 2 February 2015. Retrieved 1 February 2015.
^ Fisher, Max (November 2010). "What We Can Learn From Saudi Intelligence". The Atlantic. Retrieved 10 February 2013.
^ "Saudi women allowed to work for intelligence agency". Al Akhbar. 29 January 2013. Archived from the original on 11 February 2013. Retrieved 10 February 2013.
^ U.S. Relies Heavily on Saudi Money to Support Syrian Rebels, The New York Times, 23 January 2016
^ CNN Wire Staff (November 5, 2010). "Yemen-based al Qaeda group claims responsibility for parcel bomb plot". CNN. Archived from the original on November 13, 2010. Retrieved November 5, 2010.
^ Etter, Lauren (October 31, 2010). "Chicago Synagogue Cites Web Visits From Egypt". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on February 1, 2016. Retrieved April 5, 2014.
^ "Al-Qaeda plot: flight ban on freight from Somalia". Telegraph. London. November 1, 2010. Archived from the original on November 2, 2010. Retrieved November 1, 2010.
^ "Parcel bomb plotters 'used dry run', say US officials". BBC News. November 2, 2010. Archived from the original on November 11, 2010. Retrieved November 12, 2010.
^ Gardner, Frank (October 31, 2010). "Dubai bomb was flown on passenger planes". BBC News. Archived from the original on November 1, 2010. Retrieved October 31, 2010.
^ Roula Khalaf and Abigail Fielding Smith (16 May 2013). "Qatar bankrolls Syrian revolt with cash and arms". Financial Times. Retrieved 3 June 2013. (subscription required)
^ Saudi edges Qatar to control Syrian rebel support retrieved 6 June 2013
^ a b c Chivers, C. J.; Schmitt, Eric (26 February 2013). "In Shift, Saudis Are Said to Arm Rebels in Syria". New York Times. Retrieved 28 May 2012.
^ Kim Sengupta (12 May 2015). "Turkey and Saudi Arabia alarm the West by backing Islamist extremists the Americans had bombed in Syria". The Independent.
^ "Victory for Assad looks increasingly likely as world loses interest in Syria". The Guardian. 31 August 2017.
^ Aboufadel, Leith (7 November 2018). "Syria and Saudi Arabia to potentially reconcile after UAE reopens Damascus embassy".
^ Mazzetti, Mark; Younes, Ali (26 June 2016). "C.I.A. Arms for Syrian Rebels Supplied Black Market, Officials Say". The New York Times. Retrieved 20 September 2016.
^ Barrile, Andrea (28 June 2016). "Che fine fanno le armi USA ai ribelli siriani?". International Business Times Italy.
External links[edit]
GIP Official Website
Al-Istikhbarat Al-Amah
vtePresidents of Saudi General Intelligence Directorate
Kamal Adham
Turki bin Faisal
Nawwaf bin Abdulaziz
Muqrin bin Abdulaziz
Bandar bin Sultan
Khalid bin Bandar
Youssef bin Ali Al Idrissi
Khalid bin Ali Al Humaidan
vteSecurity forces of Saudi ArabiaMilitary
Ministry of Defense
Royal Armed Forces
Army
Navy
Air Force
Air Defense
Strategic Forces
Saudi Arabian National Guard (SANG)
Saudi Royal Guard Regiment
Saudi Emergency Force
Law enforcement
Ministry of Interior
Internal Security Police
Border Guards
Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice
Mutaween
Intelligence
General Intelligence Presidency
General Investigation Directorate
Presidency of State Security
Multilateral
Peninsula Shield Force
vteNational intelligence agenciesForeignintelligence
Afghanistan: NDS
Albania: SHISH
Algeria: DRS
Argentina: AFI
Armenia: NSS
Australia: ASIS
Azerbaijan: MTN
Bahrain: NSA
Bangladesh: NSI
Belarus: KGB RB
Belgium: ADIV/SGRS
Bosnia and Herzegovina: OSA-OBA
Brazil: ABIN
Brunei: BRD
Bulgaria: NRS
Cameroon: BMM
Canada: CSIS
Chad: ANS
Chile: ANI
China: MSS
Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR
Croatia: SOA
Cuba: DI
Czech Republic: ÚZSI
Denmark: FE
Djibouti: BSRG
Ecuador: SENAIN
Egypt: Mukhabarat
Estonia: EFIS
France: DGSE
Gambia: SIS
Georgia: GIS
Germany: BND
Ghana: BNI, BGU, RDU
Greece: EYP
Hungary: IH
India: RAW
Indonesia: BIN
Iran: VAJA
Iraq: GSD
Ireland: G2
Israel: Mossad
Italy: AISE
Ivory Coast: NSC
Japan: NPA, CIRO
Jordan: GID
Kazakhstan: Syrbar
Kenya: NIS
Kyrgyzstan: SNB
Kuwait: KSS
Latvia: SAB
Lithuania: VSD
Lebanon: GDGS
Libya: MJ
Republic of Macedonia: UBK
Malaysia: MEIO
Maldives: NSS
Mexico: CISEN
Moldova: SIS
Mongolia: GIA
Montenegro: ANB
Morocco: DGST
Mozambique: SISE
Netherlands: AIVD
New Zealand: NZSIS
Nigeria: NIA
North Korea: RGB
Norway: E-tjenesten
Oman: Palace Office
Pakistan: ISI
Papua New Guinea: NIO
Philippines: NICA
Poland: AW
Portugal: SIED
Qatar: QSS
Romania: SIE
Russia: SVR
Saudi Arabia: GIP
Serbia: BIA
Sierra Leone: CISU
Singapore: SID
Slovakia: SIS
Slovenia: SOVA
Somalia: NISA
South Africa: SSA
South Korea: NIS
Spain: CNI
Sri Lanka: SIS
Sudan: JAWM
Sweden: KSI
Switzerland: NDB
Syria: GSD
Taiwan: NSB
Tajikistan: GKNB
Thailand: NIA
Togo: NIA
Tunisia: TIA
Turkey: MİT
Turkmenistan: MNS
Uganda: ISO
Ukraine: SZRU
United Arab Emirates: UAEI
United Kingdom: SIS (MI6)
United States: CIA
Uzbekistan: SSS
Vietnam: TC2
Domesticintelligence
Algeria: DRS
Argentina: AFI
Australia: ASIO
Azerbaijan: MTN
Bangladesh: SB
Belarus: KGB RB
Belgium: VS/SE
Bosnia and Herzegovina: SIPA
Brazil: PF
Brunei: IRD
Canada: CSIS
Chile: ANI
China: MSS
Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR
Croatia: SOA
Czech Republic: BIS
Denmark: PET
Egypt: EHS
Estonia: KAPO
Finland: Supo
France: DGSI
Germany: BfV
Ghana: GPS, CID
Greece: EYP
Hong Kong: CIB
Hungary: AH
India: IB
Indonesia: POLRI
Iran: VAJA, IRGC, PAVA
Ireland: CSB, SDU, NSU
Israel: Shin Bet
Italy: AISI
Kazakhstan: NSC
Kenya: NIS
Latvia: DP
Lithuania: STT
Lebanon: ISF
Republic of Macedonia: IA
Malaysia: SB
Moldova: SIS
Japan: NPA, PSIA
Netherlands: NCTb
New Zealand: NZSIS
Nigeria: SSS
Norway: PST
North Korea: SSD
Oman: ISS
Pakistan: IB, FIA
Philippines: NBI
Poland: ABW
Portugal: SIS
Romania: SRI
Russia: FSB
Saudi Arabia: Mabahith
Serbia: BIA
Singapore: ISD
Somalia: NISA
South Africa: SSA
South Korea: SPO
Spain: CITCO
Sri Lanka: SIS
Sweden: SÄPO
Switzerland: NDB
Syria: GSD
Taiwan: MJIB
Thailand: ISOC, SB
Turkey: KDGM
Ukraine: SBU
United Kingdom: Security Service (MI5), NDEDIU, NCA, NBIS
United States: FBI
Uzbekistan: SNB
Venezuela: SEBIN
Vietnam: TC5
Zimbabwe: CIO
Militaryintelligence
Australia: DIO
Bangladesh: DGFI
Belarus: GRU MO RB
Belgium: ADIV/SGRS
Brazil: DIE
Canada: Int Branch
China: MID
Congo (Democratic Republic of): DEMIAP
Croatia: VSOA
Czech Republic: VZ
Denmark: FE
Egypt: DMISR
Finland: PE TIEDOS
France: DRM, DGSE
Germany: MAD
Ghana: MIU
Hungary: KNBSZ
Iran: General Staff, SAHEFAJA, SAHEFASA, SAHEFAVEDJA
India: DMI, DIA
Indonesia: BAIS
Ireland: G2
Israel: Aman
Italy: CII
Japan: MIC
Kazakhstan: NSC
Lithuania: AOTD
Republic of Macedonia: MSSI
Malaysia: DSID
Morocco: DGED
Netherlands: MIVD
New Zealand: DDIS
North Korea: RGB
Norway: E-tjenesten
Pakistan: MI, NI, AI
Philippines: ISAFP
Poland: SKW, SWW
Portugal: CISMIL
Romania: DGIA
Russia: GRU
Saudi Arabia: AFISC
Serbia: VOA, VBA
Singapore: MIO
Slovakia: VSS
Slovenia: OVS
South Africa: SANDF-ID
South Korea: DIA, DSSC
Spain: CIFAS
Sri Lanka: DMI
Sweden: MUST
Switzerland: MND
Syria: MI, AFID
Taiwan: MND
Thailand: AFSC
Turkey: GENKUR İ.D.B., JİTEM
Ukraine: HUR MO
United Kingdom: DI
United States: DIA
Venezuela: DGCIM
Vietnam: TC2
Signalsintelligence
Australia: ASD
Bangladesh: NTMC
Brazil: 2ª Sch/EMD
Canada: CSE
China: SIGINT
Croatia: OTC
Finland: PVTIEDL
France: DGSE
Germany: BND
Ghana: RDU
India: JCB,NTRO
Indonesia: BSSN
Ireland: CIS
Israel: 8200
Japan: DIH
Kazakhstan: NSC
Netherlands: NSO
New Zealand: GCSB
North Korea: RGB
Pakistan: JSIB
Russia: Spetssvyaz
Saudi Arabia: PSS
South Africa: SSA
Sweden: FRA
Switzerland: NDB
Syria: MI
Turkey: MİT-ETİB, MİT-SİB
UAE: SIA
Ukraine: Derzhspetszviazok
United Kingdom: GCHQ
United States: NSA
Imageryintelligence
Australia: AGO
Finland: PVTIEDL
India: DAI
Indonesia: BIG
Israel: Air Intelligence Group
Malaysia: MaCGDI
New Zealand: GEOINT NZ
Portugal: CIGeoE
Russia: TsVTI GRU
United Kingdom: DGIFC
United States: NGA
Financialintelligence
Argentina: UIF
Australia: AUSTRAC
Canada: FINTRAC
France: Tracfin
Indonesia: PPATK
Ireland: GNECB
Qatar: FIU
Russia: Rosfinmonitoring
United Kingdom: NCA
United States: TFI, FinCEN
Relatedtopics
Espionage
Global surveillance disclosures
Chelsea Manning
Snowden leaks
WikiLeaks
Great Firewall of China
Mass surveillance in China
Law enforcement
Surveillance
Big Brother
Call detail record
Carnivore
Dishfire
ECHELON
PRISM
Stone Ghost
Turbulence (NSA programme)
National security
Surveillance issues in smart cities
vteSaudi Arabia articlesHistory
Pre-Islamic Arabia
Early Islamic State
Rashidun Caliphate
Umayyad Caliphate
Abbasid Caliphate
Emirate of Diriyah
Emirate of Nejd
Kingdom of Hejaz
Unification
Modern history
Geography
Borders
Cities and towns
Climate
Earthquakes
Governorates
Mountains
Regions
Wadis
Politics
Allegiance Council
Cabinet
Consultative Assembly
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
Foreign relations
King
Mabahith (secret police)
National Security Council
Nuclear program
Prime Minister
Law
Basic Law
Capital punishment
Freedom of religion
Human rights
LGBT
Rape
Women
Mutaween (religious police)
Passport
Visa policy
Military
Air Defense
Air Force
Army
General Intelligence Presidency
Military ranks
National Guard
Navy
Economy
Agriculture
Companies
Council of Economic and Development Affairs
Energy
Oil reserves
History of the oil industry
Foreign workers
Irrigation
OPEC
Riyal (currency)
Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (central bank)
Supreme Economic Council
Tadawul (stock exchange)
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Society
Censorship
Crime
Demographics
Education
List of universities
Health care
Human trafficking
Obesity
Polygamy
Prostitution
Terrorism
Response to ISIL
Water supply and sanitation
Culture
Art
Cinema
Cuisine
Language
Media
television
Music
Public holidays
Religion
Islam
Sport
Theatre
Symbols
Anthem
Emblem
Flag
Motto
.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}OutlineIndex
Category
Portal.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Saudi Arabia portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=General_Intelligence_Presidency&amp;oldid=955898799"
		Categories: 1957 establishments in Saudi ArabiaGovernment agencies established in 1957Saudi intelligence agenciesHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksPages containing links to subscription-only contentUse dmy dates from February 2013Articles containing Arabic-language textArticles to be expanded from November 2016All articles to be expandedArticles with empty sections from November 2016All articles with empty sectionsArticles using small message boxes
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةDeutschفارسیFrançaisItaliano日本語РусскийTürkçe中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 10 May 2020, at 11:57 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
