	South Carolina Lowcountry
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Geographic and cultural region located along South Carolina's coast
"Lowcountry" redirects here. For the geographical region in and around the Netherlands, see Low Countries.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "South Carolina Lowcountry" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (March 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  A scenic vista from an observation area at Hunting Island State Park near Beaufort. Such marsh views are emblematic of the Lowcountry and its landscapes.
The Lowcountry (sometimes Low Country or just low country) is a geographic and cultural region along South Carolina's coast, including the Sea Islands. Once known for its slave-based agricultural wealth in rice and indigo dye, that flourished in the hot subtropical climate, the Lowcountry today is known for its historic cities and communities, natural environment, cultural heritage, and tourism industry.
Contents
1 Geography
2 Architecture
3 Economy
3.1 Tourism
3.2 Trade and retail
3.3 Military
4 Culture
4.1 Food
5 Wildlife
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
Geography[edit]
  Definitions of the "Lowcountry" area always include the counties in dark red, less often those in lighter shades.
The term "Low Country" originally was all the state below the Fall Line, or the Sandhills which run the width of the state from Aiken County to Chesterfield County. The Sandhills or Carolina Sandhills is a 15-60 km wide region within the Atlantic Coastal Plain province, along the inland margin of this province. The Carolina Sandhills are interpreted as eolian (wind-blown) sand sheets and dunes that were mobilized episodically from approximately 75,000 to 6,000 years ago.[1] Most of the published luminescence ages from the sand are coincident with the last glaciation, a time when the southeastern United States was characterized by colder air temperatures and stronger winds. The area above the Sandhills was known as "Upstate" or "Upcountry". These areas are different in geology, geography, and culture.
There are several variations on the geographic extent of the Lowcountry area. The most commonly accepted definition includes the counties of Beaufort, Colleton, Hampton, and Jasper; often described as the area between the Savannah and Ashley Rivers. These four are covered by the Lowcountry Council of Governments, a regional governmental entity charged with regional and transportation planning,[2] and are the ones included in the South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation, and Tourism's "Lowcountry and Resort Islands" area.[3] The area includes the Hilton Head Island-Bluffton-Beaufort, SC Metropolitan Statistical Area.
A larger geographic definition for the Lowcountry often includes Berkeley, Charleston, and Dorchester counties. Less frequently, the term is applied to Allendale, Georgetown, and Williamsburg counties. Rarely, it is applied to Horry County, home to Myrtle Beach and Conway and more often considered its own region (The Grand Strand) or part of the state's Pee Dee Region. Orangeburg County can be included in the Lowcountry region. (Orangeburg County has a relatively large land area; it can be classified as the Lowcountry, CSRA, and the Midlands.)
Architecture[edit]
One of the most distinctive elements of the South Carolina and Georgia Lowcountry is the architecture. Lowcountry style home architecture developed in the late 1700s and is still constructed today as the most efficient design for the subtropical climate of the low country.
Lowcountry buildings have historically been constructed of timber and set on pilings or had a raised first floor. The raised first floor was a response to the often swampy environment, high water tables, and tropical cyclone flooding. The underfloor space is often screened with lattice and used for storage or a carport. Lowcountry homes typically have broad hipped roofs that extend over deep and large covered front porches accented by columns or pillars, that allow a shady sitting area and are often used as another living space. Large windows are used to allow warm inside air to escape in the cooler evening. Most modern Lowcountry homes feature a central open breezeway through the entire house allowing a cooling breeze to move through the building.[citation needed]
Economy[edit]
Originally dependent on plantation agriculture based on indigo, rice and cotton, the Lowcountry economy developed other sectors in the 20th century.
Tourism[edit]
  Hilton Head Island is one of the most popular resort destinations in the United States.
Tourism dominates the economy in much of the Lowcountry. Among the attractions are resorts, historic and cultural sites, and natural features, including Hunting Island State Park, Edisto State Park and other local, state, and federally protected or preserved lands and wetlands.
The area offers many destinations for golf, tennis, and beach vacations on Hilton Head Island, Fripp Island, Seabrook Island, Kiawah Island, and the Wild Dunes portion of the Isle of Palms. Hilton Head's Sea Pines Plantation was an early resort in the 1950s. Longstanding seaside communities, including Edisto Beach, Folly Beach, Sullivan's Island, and the Isle of Palms remain popular destinations for visitors and a growing number of permanent residents and second-home owners.
Charleston attracts millions of visitors each year. Beaufort offers cultural activities and sightseeing, while some of the smaller communities in the region have certain cultural activities or amenities that attract thousands of visitors per year. Highway or traveler commercial services are of particular importance to communities in the Lowcountry (including Mount Pleasant, North Charleston, Goose Creek, Charleston and Summerville) and along Interstate 95 (including St. George, Walterboro, and Hardeeville).
Trade and retail[edit]
  The Port of Charleston has several shipping terminals.
Much of the Lowcountry's economy revolves around manufacturing, transportation, logistics and other port-related business.
The Port of Charleston, owned and operated by the South Carolina State Ports Authority (SCSPA), is one of the ten busiest U.S. ports and handles over $60 billion in goods each year. Major shippers include Maersk, Hapag-Lloyd, Evergreen Marine Corporation, COSCO and Hamburg Süd.  The SCSPA is building a terminal at the old Naval Base in North Charleston, South Carolina, and has plans to build a new ocean terminal port in southern Jasper County by 2020, in conjunction with the Georgia Ports Authority under a bi-state commission. A port facility in Port Royal closed in 2005.
Major manufacturers in North Charleston include Boeing Commercial Airplanes, Robert Bosch GmbH fuel injection and anti-lock braking components, Cummins (diesel engine components), Marathon Petroleum, Mercedes-Benz vans, and Westrock paper and packaging.
Volvo Cars opened its first American manufacturing facility in Ridgeville, Berkeley County in 2018, where it manufactures the S60 sedan.[4]
Information technology companies in Charleston and Berkeley Counties include Blackbaud, a software company headquartered in Charleston that employs hundreds of workers at its Daniel Island facility.
North Charleston has the region's largest volume of retail sales. Specialty retail, including arts and crafts, souvenirs, and antiques is big in the historic areas of Charleston, Summerville, Beaufort, Port Royal and Walterboro.
Major shopping complexes in the area include the Citadel Mall in Charleston, the Northwoods Mall, Tanger Factory Outlets and Centre Point in North Charleston and Tanger Factory Outlets in Bluffton, the Mount Pleasant Town Centre in Mount Pleasant, and Shelter Cove Towne Centre on Hilton Head Island.
Major shopping districts in the area include the City Market and King Street in Charleston, Savannah Highway in West Ashley (Charleston suburb), Daniel Island (Charleston suburb), North Charleston, Johnny Dodds Boulevard in Mount Pleasant, Boundary Street and Bay Street in Beaufort, and U.S. 278 in Bluffton and Hilton Head Island.
St. George, Walterboro, Point South, Ridgeland, and Hardeeville provide motorist services along Interstate 95.
Military[edit]
  Marine recruits on the Chosin Range, located at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island.
Tens of thousands of active duty and reserve military personnel are stationed in and near Lowcountry bases, including Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps facilities. The South Carolina National Guard has several outposts located here as well.
Military facilities in the Lowcountry include the Naval Information Warfare Center Atlantic in Goose Creek/Hanahan, the Charleston Air Force Base in North Charleston, and the Naval Weapons Station Charleston in Goose Creek, which includes a Naval Consolidated Brig in Hanahan. A former naval yard was closed in 1995. Facilities in and near Beaufort include the Marine Corps Recruit Depot on Parris Island, the U.S. Naval Hospital in Port Royal, and the Marine Corps Air Station in Beaufort.
Culture[edit]
  Grits is one of several staples of Lowcountry cuisine.
The region's culture has Southern, Native American, European, Caribbean, and African roots. Among the more notable are the Gullah influence on St. Helena Island, the early European settlements near Beaufort and Port Royal, and the Caribbean influence on architecture in Charleston.
Charleston and Beaufort have dozens of ante- and postbellum homes, with unique blends and styles of architecture.
The South Carolina Artisans Center is located in Walterboro.
Food[edit]
Main article: Lowcountry cuisine
Wildlife[edit]
Among the low country, there is an abundance of wildlife, which ranges from fiddler crabs all the way to otters. These animals hide, grow up in, and flourish in the marsh grass known as Spartina. All animals that live in the low country move constantly with the ever-changing tides. [5]
See also[edit]
Lower Coastal Plain (Georgia)
Midlands of South Carolina
Upstate South Carolina
References[edit]
^ Swezey, C.S., Fitzwater, B.A., Whittecar, G.R., Mahan, S.A., Garrity, C.P., Aleman Gonzalez, W.B., and Dobbs, K.M., 2016, "The Carolina Sandhills: Quaternary eolian sand sheets and dunes along the updip margin of the Atlantic Coastal Plain province, southeastern United States": Quaternary Research, v. 86, p. 271-286; www.cambridge.org/core/journals/quaternary-research
^ Lowcountry Council of Governments Archived 2015-09-05 at the Wayback Machine official website.
^ Tourism Regions (map) at South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation, and Tourism official website.
^ "South Carolina Car Factory | Volvo Car USA". www.volvocars.com..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ https://www.seenmagazine.us/Articles/Article-Detail/ArticleId/1691/South-Carolina’s-marsh-is-teeming-with-life-that-changes-with-the-seasons
Bopp, Suzanne. "Road Trip: Low Country, South Carolina and Georgia". National Geographic. Retrieved December 28, 2012.
External links[edit]
The Lowcountry &amp; Resort Islands Tourism Commission
vteThe Lowcountry of South CarolinaCounties
Beaufort County
Colleton County
Hampton County
Jasper County
Major communities
Beaufort
Bluffton
Estill
Hampton
Hardeeville
Hilton Head Island
Port Royal
Ridgeland
Sun City
Walterboro
Varnville
Yemassee
Sea islands
Callawassie Island
Daufuskie Island
Edisto Island
Fripp Island
Harbor Island
Hilton Head Island
Hunting Island
Lady's Island
Port Royal Island
St. Helena Island
History &amp; culture
Historic places
Beaufort
history of
historic district
Cuisine
Gullah culture
Port Royal Experiment
Sea Islands Hurricane
Military installations
Laurel Bay
MCAS Beaufort
MCRD Parris Island
Beaufort Naval Hospital
Natural areas
ACE Basin
 Pinckney Island NWR
Savannah NWR
Sea Islands
State parks
Colleton
Hunting Island
Lake Warren
Other articles
BJWSA
Hargray
Sea Pines
TCL
USC-Beaufort
RBC Heritage
vte State of South CarolinaColumbia (capital)Regions
Atlantic Coastal Plain
Blue Ridge Mountains
Grand Strand
High Hills of Santee
Lake Murray Country
Lowcountry
Metrolina
Midlands
Ninety-Six District
Olde English District
Pee Dee
Piedmont
Sandhills
Sea Islands
Upstate
Seal of South CarolinaLarger cities
Charleston
Columbia
Greenville
North Charleston
Rock Hill
Spartanburg
Smaller cities
Aiken
Anderson
Beaufort
Bennettsville
Camden
Cayce
Conway
Easley
Florence
Forest Acres
Gaffney
Georgetown
Greenwood
Greer
Goose Creek
Hilton Head Island
Isle of Palms
Laurens
Lexington
Mauldin
Myrtle Beach
North Augusta
North Myrtle Beach
Orangeburg
Simpsonville
Summerville
Sumter
Union
Walterboro
West Columbia
York
Towns
Abbeville
Barnwell
Batesburg-Leesville
Bluffton
Clemson
Darlington
Dillon
Edgefield
Fort Mill
Fountain Inn
Great Falls
Hardeeville
Irmo
Jefferson
Kingstree
Liberty
Marion
McCormick
Moncks Corner
Mount Pleasant
Newberry
Pageland
Pendleton
Pickens
Seneca
Sullivan's Island
Travelers Rest
Walhalla
Westminster
Williamston
CDPs
Berea
Carolina Forest
Dentsville
Gantt
Garden City
Ladson
Parker
Red Hill
Saint Andrews
Seven Oaks
Socastee
Taylors
Wade Hampton
Counties
Abbeville
Aiken
Allendale
Anderson
Bamberg
Barnwell
Beaufort
Berkeley
Calhoun
Charleston
Cherokee
Chester
Chesterfield
Clarendon
Colleton
Darlington
Dillon
Dorchester
Edgefield
Fairfield
Florence
Georgetown
Greenville
Greenwood
Hampton
Horry
Jasper
Kershaw
Lancaster
Laurens
Lee
Lexington
Marion
Marlboro
McCormick
Newberry
Oconee
Orangeburg
Pickens
Richland
Saluda
Spartanburg
Sumter
Union
Williamsburg
York
Topics
Airports
Amusement parks
Census areas
Colleges and universities
Congressional districts
Famous people
Governors
Highways
Historic places
History
Legislature
Mass media
Newspapers
Radio
TV
Rivers
Shopping malls
Sports venues
State House
State parks
Tourist attractions
Wildlife refuges
Society
Crime
Culture
Demographics
Economy
Education
Politics
Sports
vteGullah people topicsCultureFilm and television
Conrack (1974)
A House Divided: Denmark Vesey's Rebellion (1982)
A Soldier's Story (1984)
Glory (1989)
Daughters of the Dust (1991)
Gullah Gullah Island (1994–1998)
Publications
Bruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl
Vibration Cooking
Language
Gullah language
Religion and folklore
Afro-American religion
Black church
Boo Hag
Hoodoo
Mojo
Black cat bone
Goofer dust
Haint blue
Hot foot powder
Julia Jackson
John the Conqueror
Rabbit's foot
Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses
Ring shout
Music and culture
Charleston red rice
Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor
Kumbaya
Michael Row the Boat Ashore
Ranky Tanky
Robot Hive/Exodus
Related culture
African-American culture
Culture of Africa
 HistoryHistory topics
Bilali Document
Igbo Landing
Port Royal Experiment
Stono Rebellion
Demographics
Beaufort, South Carolina
Daufuskie Island
Eulonia, Georgia
Georgia
Golden Isles of Georgia
Sapelo Island (protected site)
Hog Hammock
South Carolina Lowcountry
Related history
African-American history
Timeline of African-American history
Atlantic slave trade
History of Angola
History of Benin
History of Congo
History of Ghana
History of Guinea-Bissau
History of Liberia
History of Nigeria
Sahel / Senegambia
History of Senegal
History of the Gambia
History of Sierra Leone
Bunce Island
History of the United States
Slavery in the United States
Related ethnic groups
African Americans
Baga
Kongo
Fula
Igbo
Kissi
Jola
Kpelle
Limba
Mandinka
Mende
Susu
Temne
Vai
Wolof
Serer
Laalaa
Ndut
Niominka
Noon
Palor
Saafi
Toucouleur
 Gullah category
Coordinates: 33°07′34″N 80°00′32″W﻿ / ﻿33.1260618°N 80.0087746°W﻿ / 33.1260618; -80.0087746
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=South_Carolina_Lowcountry&amp;oldid=977582594"
		Categories: Regions of South CarolinaGullah countryHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2013All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2017Coordinates on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikivoyage
		Languages
		DeutschEspañol日本語
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 9 September 2020, at 18:23 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
