	Giles of Rome
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Egidio ColonnaGiles of RomeBornc.1243Rome, Papal StatesDied(1316-12-22)22 December 1316Avignon, Kingdom of ArlesNationalityItalianEducation
University of Paris
EraMedieval philosophyRegionWestern philosophySchool
Aristotelianism
Thomism
Augustinianism
Main interestsMetaphysics, Logic, Epistemology, Natural Philosophy, Medicine, Ethics, Political philosophy
Influences
Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, Augustine, Anselm, Avicenna, Averroes, Proclus, Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Influenced
James of Viterbo, Thomas of Strasburg
Giles of Rome O.S.A. (Latin: Aegidius Romanus; Italian: Egidio Colonna; c. 1243 – 22 December 1316), was a Medieval philosopher and Scholastic theologian and a friar of the Order of St Augustine, who was also appointed to the positions of Prior General of his Order and as Archbishop of Bourges. He is famed as being a logician, producing a commentary on the Organon by Aristotle, and for his authorship of two important works, De Ecclesiastica Potestate, a major text of early 14th century Papalism, and De Regimine Principum, a guide book for Christian temporal leadership. Giles was styled Doctor Fundatissimus ("Best-Grounded Teacher") by Pope Benedict XIV. 
Writers in 14th and 15th century England such as John Trevisa and Thomas Hoccleve translated or adapted him into English.
Contents
1 Early life
2 Controversy
3 Works
4 The Aegidian school
5 Translations
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
Early life[edit]
Very little is known about his early life, although the Augustinian friar Jordan of Quedlinburg claimed in his Liber Vitasfratrum that Giles belonged to the noble Colonna family of Rome. But Jordan of Saxony was not a contemporary of Giles, and many scholars remain skeptical of his account of Giles' early life. Having entered the Order of the Hermits of St. Augustine in Rome, he was sent by his Order to the University of Paris for his philosophical and theological studies, and there became a disciple of the Dominican Thomas Aquinas, and was later appointed to teach at the university, being the first of his Order to do so. It has been estimated that Giles was taught by Thomas Aquinas between 1269 and 1272, and in the years that followed, he produced many of his commentaries on the works of Aristotle, who had been experiencing an intellectual revival during the thirteenth century, and he also produced his commentary on Peter Lombard's Sentences. Giles remained in Paris studying and teaching theology until Bishop Étienne Tempier condemned the application of Aristotelianism within the Christian discourse, including those who had produced commentaries on Aristotle's work. Giles, whose work had been condemned, disappeared from the Parisian academic scene. 
There is no information remaining concerning Giles between the period of 1277 and 1281, when he returned to Italy. However, in 1281, at the Thirty-sixth Council of Paris, in which several differences between the bishops and mendicant orders were dealt with, he sided with the bishops against the mendicants. In reference to this, a contemporary philosopher, Godfrey of Fontaines mentioned Giles as the most renowned theologian of the whole city (qui modo melior de totâ villâ in omnibus reputatur), suggesting that he might have been in Paris during this period before going back to Rome.
Philip III of France entrusted to Gile the education of his son and heir, who later, in 1285, ascended the throne as Philip IV. When the new king entered Paris after his consecration at Reims, Giles gave the welcoming address in the name of the university, insisting on justice as the most important virtue for a king to practice. In 1285 Giles' work was again called into question, but by 1287 he was allowed to continue teaching. Eight years later in 1295 Giles was appointed as the Archbishop of Bourges, which he wrote about in his work De renunciatione.
Controversy[edit]
Giles was involved in the condemnation of 1277 promulgated by Étienne Tempier. Several of his opinions had been found reprehensible by Archbishop Tempier, and in 1285 Pope Honorius IV asked him for a public retraction. This, however, was far from lessening his reputation, for in 1287 a decree of the general chapter of the Augustinians held in Florence, after remarking that Giles's doctrine "shines throughout the whole world" (venerabilis magistri nostri Ægidii doctrina mundum universum illustrat), commanded all members of the order to accept and defend all his opinions, written or to be written.
After filling several important positions in his order he was elected superior-general/prior-general,  in 1292. Three years later Pope Boniface VIII appointed him Archbishop of Bourges, France, although Jean de Savigny had already been designated for this see by Pope Celestine V. The French nobility protested on the ground that Giles was an Italian, but his appointment was maintained and approved by the king.
He was present at the Council of Vienne (1311–1312) in which the Order of Knights Templars was suppressed. He died in Avignon.
Works[edit]
  In secundum librum sententiarum quaestiones, 1581
Part of a series onCatholic philosophy  Aquinas, Scotus, and Ockham
Ethics
Cardinal virtues
Just price
Just war
Probabilism
Natural law
Personalism
Social teaching
Virtue ethics
Schools
Augustinianism
Cartesianism
Molinism
Occamism
Salamanca
Scholasticism
Neo-scholasticism
Scotism
Thomism
Philosophers
Ancient
Ambrose
Athanasius the Great
Augustine of Hippo
Clement of Alexandria
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Gregory of Nyssa
Irenaeus of Lyons
Jerome
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Justin Martyr
Origen
Paul the Apostle
Tertullian
Postclassical
Pseudo-Dionysius
Boethius
Isidore of Seville
Scotus Eriugena
Bede
Anselm of Canterbury
Hildegard of Bingen
Peter Abelard
Symeon the New Theologian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hugh of Saint Victor
Thomas Aquinas
Benedict of Nursia
Pope Gregory I
Peter Lombard
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Duns Scotus
Roger Bacon
Giles of Rome
James of Viterbo
Giambattista Vico
Gregory of Rimini
William of Ockham
Catherine of Siena
Paul of Venice
Modern
Baltasar Gracián
Erasmus of Rotterdam
Thomas Cajetan
Nicholas of Cusa
Luis de Molina
Teresa of Ávila
Thomas More
Francis de Sales
Francisco de Vitoria
Domingo de Soto
Martín de Azpilcueta
Tomás de Mercado
Antoine Arnauld
René Descartes
Robert Bellarmine
Ignacy Krasicki
Hugo Kołłątaj
François Fénelon
Alphonsus Liguori
Nicolas Malebranche
Blaise Pascal
Francisco Suárez
Giovanni Botero
Felicité de Lamennais
Antonio Rosmini
John Henry Newman
Contemporary
Pope Benedict XVI
Pope John Paul II
G. E. M. Anscombe
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Maurice Blondel
G. K. Chesterton
Yves Congar
Henri de Lubac
John Finnis
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Étienne Gilson
René Girard
Nicolás Gómez Dávila
Romano Guardini
John Haldane
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Bernard Lonergan
Marshall McLuhan
Alasdair MacIntyre
Gabriel Marcel
Jean-Luc Marion
Jacques Maritain
Emmanuel Mounier
Josef Pieper
Karl Rahner
Edith Stein
Charles Taylor
 Catholicism portal
 Philosophy portalvte
His writings cover the fields of philosophy and theology. There is no complete edition of his works, but several treatises have been published separately.
In Holy Scripture and theology he wrote commentaries on the Hexaemeron, the Canticle of Canticles, and the Epistle to the Romans; several Opuscula and Quodlibeta, various treatises, and especially commentaries on Peter the Lombard's Four Books of Sentences.
In philosophy, besides commentaries on almost all the works of Aristotle, he wrote several special treatises. But his main work is the treatise De regimine principum, written for, and dedicated to, his pupil, Philip IV. It passed through many editions (the first, Augsburg, 1473) and was translated into several languages. The Roman edition of 1607 contains a life of Egidio. The work is divided into three books: the first treats of the individual conduct of the king, the nature of his true happiness, the choice and acquisition of virtues, and the ruling of passions; the second deals with family life and the relations with wife, children, and servants; the third considers the State, its origin, and the proper mode of governing in times of peace and war.
His pedagogical writings have been published in German by Kaufmann (Freiburg, 1904).
His attitude in the difficulties between Pope Boniface VIII and King Philip IV was long believed to have been favourable to the king. But it has been proved that he is the author of the treatise De potestate ecclesiasticâ, in which the rights of the pope are vindicated. The similarity between this treatise and the bull Unam Sanctam seems to support the view taken by some writers that he was the author of the bull.
He had already taken an active part in ending the discussions and controversies concerning the validity of Boniface's election to the papacy. In his treatise De renunciatione Papæ sive Apologia pro Bonifacio VIII he shows the legitimacy of Celestine's resignation and consequently of Boniface's election. In philosophy and theology he generally follows the opinions of his master, St. Thomas, whose works he quotes as scripta communia.
The Defensorium seu Correctorium corruptorii librorum Sancti Thomæ Acquinatis against the Franciscan William de la Mare of Oxford is by some attributed to him; but this remains uncertain. Nevertheless, on many points he holds independent views and abandons the Thomistic doctrine to follow the opinions of St. Augustine and of the Franciscan School. He even errs in asserting that, before the Fall, grace had not been given to Adam, an opinion which he wrongly attributes to St. Augustine.
Giles wrote a commentary on Guido Cavalcanti's philosophical love canzone "Donna me prega" (see Enrico Fenzi, La canzone d'amore di Guido Cavalcanti e i suoi antichi commenti, Melangolo, 1999).
The Aegidian school[edit]
After the decree of the general chapter of 1287, mentioned above, his opinions  were generally accepted in the Augustinian Order. He thus became the founder of the Ægidian School. Among the most prominent representatives of this school must be mentioned Giacomo Capoccio of Viterbo (d. 1307) and Augustinus Triumphus (d. 1328), both of them his contemporaries, and also students and professors in the University of Paris: Prosper of Reggio, Albert of Padua, Gerard of Siena, Henry of Frimar, Thomas of Strasburg — all in the first half of the fourteenth century.
For some time after this other opinions prevailed in the Augustinian Order. But as late as the seventeenth century should be mentioned Raffaello Bonherba (d. 1681) who wrote Disputationes totius philosophiæ … in quibus omnes philosophicæ inter D. Thomam et Scotum controversiæ principaliter cum doctrinâ nostri Ægidii Columnæ illustrantur (Palermo, 1645, 1671); and Augustino Arpe (d. 1704) who wrote Summa totius theologiæ Ægidii Columnæ (Bologna, 1701, and Genoa, 1704).
Federico Nicolò Gavardi (d. 1715), the most important interpreter of Colonna, composed Theologia exantiquata iuxta orthodoxam S. P. Augustini doctrinam ab Ægidio Columnâ doctoræ fundatissimo expositam … (6 vols. fol., Naples and Rome, 1683–1696); this work was abridged by Anselm Hörmannseder in his Hecatombe theologica (Presburg, 1737). Benignus Sichrowsky (d. 1737) wrote also Philosophia vindicata ad erroribus philosophorum gentilium iuxta doctrinam S. Augustini et B. Ægidii Columnæ (Nuremberg, 1701).
Translations[edit]
On ecclesiastical power: A Medieval Theory of World Government, edited and translated by RW Dyson, (New York: Columbia University Press, 2004)
Commentary on the Song of Songs and other writings, translated by J Rotelle, (Villanova, PA: Augustinian Press, 1998)
On ecclesiastical power / by Giles of Rome = De ecclesiastica potestate / by Aegidius of Rome, translated by Arthur P. Monahan, (Lewiston, NY: E Mellen Press, 1990)
Giles of Rome on ecclesiastical power: the De ecclesiastica potestate of Aegidius Romanus,translated by R.W. Dyson, (Woodbridge: Boydell, 1986)
Theorems on existence and essence, translated by Michael V Murray, (Milwaukee, WI: Marquette University Press, 1952)
Errores philosophorum, translated by John O Riedl, (Milwaukee, WI: Marquette University Press, 1944)
See also[edit]
Angelo da Furci
References[edit]
Johannes Felix Ossinger, Bibliotheca augustiniana (Ingolstadt and Vienna, 1768)
Henry Denifle and Émile Chatelain, Chartularium Universitatis Parisiensis (Paris, 1889–), I, II, see Index
FÉRRET, La faculté de théologie de Paris et ses docteurs les plus célèbres au moyen âge (Paris, 1896), III, 459-475
Hugo von Hurter, Nomenclator (3d ed., Innsbruck, 1906), II, 481-486 and passim for Ægidian School
LAZARD, Gilles de Rome in Histoire littéraire de la France (Paris, 1888), XXX, 423-566
MATTIOLO, Studio critico sopra Egidio Romano Colonna in Antologia Agostiniana (Rome, 1896), I
SCHOLZ, Ægidius von Rom (Stuttgart, 1902)
WERNER, Die Scholastik des spätantiken Mittelalter, III, Der Augustinismus des spätantiken Mittelalter (Vienna, 1863)
Scheeben in Kirchenlexikon, s. v.
CHEVALIER, Répertoire des sources historiques (2d ed., Paris, 1905), s. v. Gilles.
External links[edit]
Roberto Lambertini. "Giles of Rome".  In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
10a 212 De regimine regum et principum at OPenn
MS 482/2 De regimine principum at OPenn
Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Egidio Colonna" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975). "Ägidius von Rom".  In Bautz, Friedrich Wilhelm (ed.). Biographisch-Bibliographisches Kirchenlexikon (BBKL) (in German). 1. Hamm: Bautz. col. 43. ISBN 3-88309-013-1.
vteMedieval philosophersIslamicEarly
Al-Jahiz
Alkindus
Ibn al-Rawandi
Al-Razi (Rhazes)
Al-Farabi (Alpharabius)
Ibn Masarra
Al Amiri
Ebn Meskavayh 
Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen)
Abu Rayhan Biruni
"Brethren of Purity"
High
Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna)
Ibn Hazm
Al-Ghazali (Algazel)
Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī
Ibn Bajjah (Avempace)
Ayn al-Quzat Hamadani 
Ibn Tufail
Ibn Rushd (Averroes)
Late
Ibn Sab'in
Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi
Fakhr ad-Din ar-Razi
Rashid al-Din
Ibn Arabi
Zachariah Kazwin
Abd-el-latif
Athīr al-Dīn al-Abharī
Nasir al-Din al-Tusi
Ibn al-Nafis
Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi
Ibn Taymiyyah
Ibn Khaldun
JewishMedieval
Isaac Israeli ben Solomon
Saadia Gaon
Solomon ibn Gabirol
Judah Halevi
Abraham ibn Daud
Maimonides
Nachmanides
Gersonides
Hasdai Crescas
Joseph Albo
ChristianEarly
"Church Fathers"
Augustine of Hippo
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Isidore of Seville
Johannes Scotus Eriugena
Alcuin
11–12thcentury
"Scholasticism"
Anselm of Canterbury
Peter Abelard
Anselm of Laon
Hugh of Saint Victor
Richard of Saint Victor
Roscelin
Peter Lombard
Alexander of Hales
Bernard of Chartres
Dominicus Gundissalinus
Gilbert de la Porrée
Alain de Lille
13–14thcentury
Robert Grosseteste
Albertus Magnus
Bonaventure
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Roger Bacon
John Peckham
Ramon Llull
Petrus Aureolus
Petrus Peregrinus de Maricourt
Durandus
Giles of Rome
Godfrey of Fontaines
Duns Scotus
William of Ockham
Late
Jean Buridan
Nicole Oresme
Albert of Saxony
Francesc Eiximenis
Vincent Ferrer
Paul of Venice
Lambertus de Monte
John Hennon
See also Renaissance philosophy
vteSocial and political philosophyAncientphilosophers
Aristotle
Chanakya
Cicero
Confucius
Han Fei
Lactantius
Laozi
Mencius
Mozi
Origen
Plato
Polybius
Shang
Socrates
Sun Tzu
Tertullian
Thucydides
Valluvar
Xenophon
Xunzi
Medievalphilosophers
Alpharabius
Augustine
Averroes
Baldus
Bartolus
Bruni
Dante
Gelasius
al-Ghazali
Giles
Hostiensis
Ibn Khaldun
John of Paris
John of Salisbury
Latini
Maimonides
Marsilius
Nizam al-Mulk
Photios
Thomas Aquinas
Wang
William of Ockham
Early modernphilosophers
Beza
Bodin
Bossuet
Botero
Buchanan
Calvin
Cumberland
Duplessis-Mornay
Erasmus
Filmer
Grotius
Guicciardini
Harrington
Hayashi
Hobbes
Hotman
Huang
Leibniz
Locke
Luther
Machiavelli
Malebranche
Mariana
Milton
Montaigne
More
Müntzer
Naudé
Pufendorf
Rohan
Sansovino
Sidney
Spinoza
Suárez
18th–19th-centuryphilosophers
Bakunin
Bentham
Bonald
Bosanquet
Burke
Comte
Constant
Emerson
Engels
Fichte
Fourier
Franklin
Godwin
Hamann
Hegel
Herder
Hume
Jefferson
Justi
Kant
political philosophy
Kierkegaard
Le Bon
Le Play
Madison
Maistre
Marx
Mazzini
Mill
Montesquieu
Möser
Nietzsche
Novalis
Paine
Renan
Rousseau
Royce
Sade
Schiller
Smith
Spencer
Stirner
Taine
Thoreau
Tocqueville
Vico
Vivekananda
Voltaire
20th–21st-centuryphilosophers
Adorno
Ambedkar
Arendt
Aurobindo
Aron
Azurmendi
Badiou
Baudrillard
Bauman
Benoist
Berlin
Bernstein
Butler
Camus
Chomsky
De Beauvoir
Debord
Du Bois
Durkheim
Dworkin
Foucault
Gandhi
Gauthier
Gehlen
Gentile
Gramsci
Habermas
Hayek
Heidegger
Irigaray
Kautsky
Kirk
Kropotkin
Laclau
Lenin
Luxemburg
Mao
Mansfield
Marcuse
Maritain
Michels
Mises
Mou
Mouffe
Negri
Niebuhr
Nozick
Nursî
Oakeshott
Ortega
Pareto
Pettit
Plamenatz
Polanyi
Popper
Qutb
Radhakrishnan
Rand
Rawls
Rothbard
Russell
Santayana
Sartre
Scanlon
Schmitt
Searle
Shariati
Simmel
Simonović
Skinner
Sombart
Sorel
Spann
Spirito
Strauss
Sun
Taylor
Walzer
Weber
Žižek
Social theories
Anarchism
Authoritarianism
Collectivism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conflict theories
Confucianism
Consensus theory
Conservatism
Contractualism
Cosmopolitanism
Culturalism
Fascism
Feminist political theory
Gandhism
Individualism
Islam
Islamism
Legalism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Mohism
National liberalism
Republicanism
Social constructionism
Social constructivism
Social Darwinism
Social determinism
Socialism
Utilitarianism
Concepts
Civil disobedience
Democracy
Four occupations
Justice
Law
Mandate of Heaven
Peace
Property
Revolution
Rights
Social contract
Society
War
more...
Related articles
Jurisprudence
Philosophy and economics
Philosophy of education
Philosophy of history
Philosophy of love
Philosophy of sex
Philosophy of social science
Political ethics
Social epistemology
Category
Authority control 
BNE: XX882291
BNF: cb120064271 (data)
CANTIC: a10238025
GND: 118500805
ICCU: IT\ICCU\CFIV\051228
ISNI: 0000 0001 1578 9831
LCCN: n85147491
NDL: 00671800
NKC: ola2002153586
NLA: 35823708
NTA: 070206805
SELIBR: 50801
SNAC: w6d798n6
SUDOC: 028176685
Trove: 1103917
VcBA: 495/22124
VIAF: 100187638
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n85147491
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Giles_of_Rome&amp;oldid=979620033"
		Categories: 1243 births1316 deathsAugustinian philosophersMedieval philosophers13th-century philosophers14th-century philosophersCatholic philosophersScholastic philosophersLatin commentators on AristotleArchbishops of BourgesAugustinian friarsPeople from RomeHidden categories: Articles with hCardsArticles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource referenceCS1 German-language sources (de)Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ICCU identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiersUse dmy dates from January 2012
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةAragonésAsturianuCatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolEsperantoFrançaisItalianoMagyarمصرىPolskiРусскийSlovenčinaSuomiSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 21 September 2020, at 19:38 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
