	Black nobility
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For the nobility of the Papal states, see Papal nobility.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Black nobility" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (May 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article is part of a series onVatican City
History
Duchy of Rome 533–751
Donation of Pepin 750s
Papal States      754–1870
Annates
Congregation for Borders
Fundamental Statute for the Secular Government of the States of the Church
Capture of Rome   1870
"Prisoner in the Vatican" 1870–1929
Roman Question
Law of Guarantees
Lateran Treaty    1929
Vatican City      1929–present
Governor of Vatican City
2010 Vatican sex scandal
History of the Catholic Church since 1962
History of the Papacy
Roman Historical Institutes
Savoyard Era
Vatileaks scandal
Vatican Historical Museum
Vatican City during World War II
Law
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Fundamental Law of Vatican City State
Capital punishment in Vatican City
Crime in Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
Legal status of the Holy See
(Alperin v. Vatican Bank)
(Doe v. Holy See)
Temporal power of the Holy See
Tribunal of Vatican City State
Canon law
1983 Code of Canon Law
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Apostolic Constitution Pastor Bonus
LGBT rights in Vatican City
Pontifical Swiss Guard
Corps of Firefighters of the Vatican City State
Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City
Politics and government
Archives
Association of Vatican Lay Workers
Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State
President
President: Giuseppe Bertello
Pontifical Commission
Secretariat for Communications
Holy See Press Office
L'Osservatore Romano (Vatican City newspaper)
L'Osservatore della Domenica
List of newspapers in Vatican City
Vatican Radio lawsuit
Vatican Information Service
.va (Vatican City internet sites)
Vatican Publishing House
Vatican Radio
Vatican Television Center
Secretariat of State
Secretary: Pietro Parolin
Fabric of Saint Peter
Foreign relations of the Holy See
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Holy See–Israel relations
Holy See–Italy relations
Holy See–Palestine relations
Papal apocrisiarius
Governorate of Vatican City
Governor of Vatican City
Military of Vatican City
Noble Guard
College of Cardinals
Camerlengo (Chamberlain)
Dean
Vical General
Court of Cassation
President: Dominique Mamberti
Court of Appeals
President: Pio Vito Pinto
Tribunale
President: G.  di Sanguinetto
Papacy
Pope
Popemobile
Catholic Church
Latin Church
Holy See
Diocese of Rome
Roman Curia
Universi Dominici Gregis
Papal conclave (Papal elections)
Universi Dominici gregis
Recent conclaves
1978 (Oct)20052013
Papal household
Papal Gentleman
Prefecture of the Pontifical Household
Foreign relations
Section for Relations with States
Concordats
Multilateral foreign policy
Status in international law
Lateran Treaty
Section for Relations with States (Roman Curia)
Secretary for Relations with States: Paul Gallagher
Undersecretaries for Relations with States: Antoine Camilleri
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Nuncios
Vatican and Holy See passports
Visa requirements
Visa policy
The Holy See and the United Nations
Economy
Institute for the Works of Religion
Telephone numbers in Vatican City
Tourism in Vatican City
Transport in Vatican City
Rail transport in Vatican City
Secretariat for the Economy
Financial Information Authority
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Vatican euro coins
Vatican lira
Properties of the Holy See
Symbols
Flag
List of Papal Flags
Anthem
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
00120 (Vatican postcode)
Papal tiara
Papal coronation
Culture
Vatican museums
Vatican Library
Music of Vatican City
Sistine Chapel Choir
Languages of Vatican City
Women in Vatican City
Vatican Christmas Tree
Vatican City football team
Vatican Cricket Team
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Public holidays in Vatican City
Pontifical Academy of Sciences
Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences
The Story of the Vatican, 1941 documentary
Buildings/geography
Apostolic Nunciature
Apostolic Palace
Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore
Borgia Apartments
Bramante Staircase
Domus Sanctae Marthae
Fountains of St. Peter's Square
Gardens of Vatican City
Geography of Vatican City
Gregorian Tower
Mater Ecclesiae (monastery)
Monument to the Royal Stuarts
Palace of the Holy Office
Palazzi Pontifici
Papal Apartments
Saint Peter's Basilica
Saint Peter's Square
Saint Peter's tomb
Lateran Basilica
Lateran Palace
Leonine City
Niccoline Chapel
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Papal tombs
Papal tombs in Old St. Peter's Basilica
Paul VI Audience Hall
Tomb of the Julii
Torre San Giovanni
Scala Regia
Via della Conciliazione
Vatican Climate Forest
Vatican Heliport
Vatican Hill
Vatican Necropolis
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Public holidays in Vatican City
Vatican Secret Archives
St. Peter's Baldachin
Sala Regia
San Pellegrino in Vaticano
Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri
Santa Maria della Pietà in Camposanto dei Teutonici
Vatican Advanced Technology Telescope
Vatican Observatory
Vatican Pharmacy
Bibliotheca Palatina
Cappella Giulia
Cappella Paolina
Cardinal Secretary of State
Casina Pio IV
Circus of Nero
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Saints Martin and Sebastian of the Swiss
Santo Stefano degli Abissini
Santo Stefano degli Ungheresi
Teutonic Cemetery
Cortile del Belvedere
Passetto di Borgo
Porta San Pellegrino
Vatican Museums
Vatican Museums
Gallery of Maps
Gallery of Sistine Chapel ceiling
Collection of Modern Religious Art
Raphael Rooms
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes
Sistine Chapel
Sistine Chapel ceiling
The Last Judgment by Michelangelo
Outline
Index
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portalvte
.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{display:flex;flex-direction:column}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{display:flex;flex-direction:row;clear:left;flex-wrap:wrap;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{margin:1px;float:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .theader{clear:both;font-weight:bold;text-align:center;align-self:center;background-color:transparent;width:100%}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbcaption{background-color:transparent}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-left{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-right{text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-center{text-align:center}@media all and (max-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;max-width:none!important;align-items:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{justify-content:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{float:none!important;max-width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle .thumbcaption{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow>.thumbcaption{text-align:center}}Coat of arms of the Colonna family and the Orsini family, respectively. Both were black nobility descended from Medieval and Renaissance papal families.
The black nobility or black aristocracy (Italian: nobiltà nera, aristocrazia nera) are Roman aristocratic families who sided with the Papacy under Pope Pius IX after the Savoy family-led army of the Kingdom of Italy entered Rome on 20 September 1870, overthrew the Pope and the Papal States, and took over the Quirinal Palace, and any nobles subsequently ennobled by the Pope prior to the 1929 Lateran Treaty.[1][2]
For the next 59 years, the Pope confined himself to Vatican City and claimed to be a prisoner in the Vatican to avoid the appearance of accepting the authority of the new Italian government and state.[2] Aristocrats who had been ennobled by the Pope and were formerly subjects of the Papal states, including the senior members of the Papal Court, kept the doors of their palaces in Rome closed to mourn the Pope's confinement, which led to their being called the "black nobility".[1]
Contents
1 History
2 See also
3 References
4 Bibliography
History[edit]
  Pius IX funeral escorted by the noble guard
Despite the relatively recent name, the Black Nobility had existed for centuries, originating in the baronial class of Rome and in the powerful families who moved to Rome to benefit from a family connection to the Vatican. These supported the Popes in the governance of the Papal States and in the administration of the Holy See.[2] Many of the members of Black Noble families also became high-ranking clergy and even Popes. Black Nobility families (in this instance families whose ancestors included Popes) still in existence include notably the Colonna, Massimo, Orsini, Ruspoli, Pallavicini, Theodoli [it], Sacchetti, Borghese, Odescalchi, and Boncompagni-Ludovisi [it]. Major extinct papal families include the Savelli, Caetani, the Aldobrandini and Conti. Famous members of Black Nobility families include Arnaldo De Rosette, Bishop of Asti, who promulgated a Synod which provided some decrees to regulate and classify the clergy of Lombardy and Piedmont and its composition, with a particular emphasis on the Knights Hospitallers; Eugenio Pacelli, who later became Pope Pius XII; Ernesto Pacelli, an important financier; and Prospero Colonna, mayor of Rome.
Following the conclusion of the Lateran Treaty in 1929, the Black Nobility were given dual citizenship in Italy and Vatican City. Under the provisions of the treaty, noble titles granted by the pope were recognized in the Kingdom of Italy. Many of these families were members of the largely ceremonial Papal Noble Guard; others were foreigners affiliated with the Holy See in various ways. In 1931, Pope Pius XI denied the request of Alfonso XIII of Spain to open the Noble Guard further to nobles from all Catholic countries. In World War II, the Papal Noble Guard guarded the Pope alongside the Swiss Guard.[3]
Pope Paul VI abolished many Vatican City positions with the motu proprio document Pontificalis Domus (English: The Papal Household) in 1968. As well as changing the name of the group from Papal Court to Papal Household, many of the positions occupied by the Black Nobility were abolished. According to the motu proprio: "Many of the offices entrusted to members of the Papal Household were deprived of their function, continuing to exist as purely honorary positions, without much correspondence to concrete needs of the times."[4] Many of these positions and the Papal Court itself were still set up for administering the Papal States, which had been lost in 1870. The Black Nobility's perks, such as Vatican City licence plates, were also withdrawn. Some Black Nobles resented these changes. According to diplomat and author Roger Peyrefitte, it was members of the Black Nobility who first told him of the Pope's alleged association with an actor, which eventually led to Peyreffite's public statements and subsequent scandal.[5] In May 1977, some members of the Black Nobility, led by Princess Elvina Pallavicini, started courting traditional Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Papal nobility
Papal household
Prince Assistants to the Papal Throne
Pontificalis Domus
Roman Question
Law of Guarantees
Prisoner in the Vatican
Ernesto Pacelli
Arnaldo De Rosette, Bishop of Asti
Orsini family
House of Farnese
References[edit]
^ a b Ventresca, Robert A. (2013). Soldier of Christ: The Life of Pope Pius XII. Harvard University Press. ISBN 9780674067301. Retrieved 20 November 2018..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b c Klooz, David (2018). Adrift on a Sea of Lies. David Klooz. Retrieved 20 November 2018.
^ David Alvarez, The Pope's Soldiers: A Military History of the Modern Vatican (Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas, 2011), pp. 337
^ Pontificalis Domus, Introduction.
^ Leyland, Winston Gay Sunshine Interviews: Volume 2, Gay Sunshine Press 1982, p155
Bibliography[edit]
Alvarez, David. The Pope's Soldiers: A Military History of the Modern Vatican (Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas, 2011)
Coulombe, Charles A. (2003). Vicars of Christ: A History of the Popes. New York: Citadel Press. ISBN 0-8065-2370-0. p. 415
Arlington, Paul I. Murphy with R. René (1983). La popessa (1. print. ed.). New York: Warner. ISBN 0-446-51258-3. p. 41
Article on the pre-1968 reform Papal Court, including hereditary officers
Text of the apostolic letter Pontificalis Domus (in Latin)
Calendario Pontificio (tutte le edizioni) Gallelli-editore
Libro d'Oro della Nobiltà Pontificia (tutte le edizioni) Gallelli-editore
Fiction using the term
Greeley, Andrew M. (1997). White Smoke: A Novel about the Next Papal Enclave (1st mass market ed.). New York: Forge. ISBN 0-8125-9055-4. p. 64.
Segal, Erich. 1993. Acts of Faith. Bantam Books. ISBN 0-553-56070-0. p. 315.
vte Orders, decorations, and medals of the Holy SeeOrdersof the Holy See
 Supreme Order of Christ
 Order of the Golden Spur
 Order of Pope Pius IX
 Order of St. Gregory the Great
 Order of Saint Sylvester
Ordersunder protectionof the Holy See(with distinctions) Order of the Holy Sepulchre ( Palm of Jerusalem,  Pilgrim Shell,  Cross of Merit)
 Sovereign Military Order of Malta ( Order pro Merito Melitensi,  Medal of the Order pro Merito Melitensi)Other distinctions
 Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice
 Benemerenti medal
 Jerusalem Pilgrim's Cross
Golden Rose
Defunct/dormantdistinctions(selection)
Order of Saint John of the Lateran
Order of Saint Cecilia (1870)
Order of the Moor (1870)
Order of Saint Sylvester and the Militia Aurata (1905)
Advocates of Saint Peter (1909)
Blessed sword and hat (1823)
 Pro Petri Sede (1860)
 Fidei et Virtuti (1867)
 Lauretan Cross (ca. 1980s)
 Papal Lateran Cross (1977)
See also
Papal household
Papal nobility
Black nobility
Pontifical academies
Swiss Guard
Other Catholic orders of chivaly
Catholic ecclesiastical decorations
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vtePapacyEpiscopate of the bishop of RomeJurisdictionHoly See(Full communion)
Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Primacy
History
Vatican City (Index, Outline)
enclaved in Rome, Italy
Lateran Treaty 1929
along with extraterritorial properties of the Holy See
Headquarters
Vatican City:
Apostolic Palace
Papal apartments
Sistine Chapel
Cathedra:
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Major basilicas
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
TitlesPapal names
His Holiness
Bishop of Rome
Vicar of Jesus Christ
Successor of the Prince of the Apostles
Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church
Patriarch of the West
Primate of Italy
Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province
Sovereign of the Vatican City State
Servant of the servants of God
Symbols
Coats of arms
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
Cross
Keys of Heaven
Regalia and insignia
Rota
Umbraculum
Proclamations
Infallibility
Apostolic constitution
Bull
List
Encyclical
Apostolic exhortation
Ecclesiastical letter
Interdict
Activities
Arbitration
Deposition
Blessing
"Pontifical"
Urbi et Orbi
Conclave
List
Coronation
Consistory
Diplomacy
Inauguration
Mass
High Mass
Oath
Travel
Vestments
Camauro
Falda
Fanon
Ferula
Flabellum
Mantle
Mitre
Mozzetta
Pallium
Ring of the Fisherman
Shoes
Slippers
Sub-cinctorium
Tiara
List
Zucchetto
Transportation
Popemobile
Sedia gestatoria
Household
Camerlengo
Commander of the Swiss Guard
Chaplain
Palatinus
Papal majordomo
Gentlemen
Preacher
Prefect
Prelate of Honour
Prince assistant
Theologian
Staff
College of Cardinals
Cardinal
List
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Synods
Cappella Giulia
Sistine Chapel Choir
See also
Papal nobility
"Black"
Orders of chivalry
Pontifical academy
Pontifical university
in Rome
Pontifical colleges in Rome
Major Seminary
Swiss Guard
Papabile
Canonised popes
Legends
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portal
vteHoly See
Apostolic episcopal see of Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Sovereign subject of international law
History
Apostolic see
Primacy of Peter
History of papal primacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Lateran Palace
Museum
Duchy of Rome
Donation of Sutri
Donation of Pepin
Avignon Papacy
Papal States
Temporal power
Investiture Controversy
Age of Revolution
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Savoyard era
Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
World War II
Warsaw Pact
Sovereignsubjectofinternationallaw(Legal status)Officials
Pope Francis
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Cardinals
List
Advisers
Governance
Secretariat of State
College of Cardinals
Papal conclave
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Foreign affairs(Multilateral policy)
Section for Relations with States
To the Holy See
Of the Holy See
Heads
Italy
United Nations
Permanent Observer
in Geneva
European Union
Permanent Observer to the Council of Europe
Apostolic Nunciature
Nuncio
Treaties
Concordats
Dioceseof Romewith  universalfull communion(Papal primacy)Synods
Ordinary general assemblies
Extraordinary general assemblies
Special assemblies
Ecclesiasticalprovince of Rome(Vicariate: Rome,Vatican City)Suburbicarian sees
Ostia
Velletri-Segni
Porto-Santa Rufina
Frascati
Palestrina
Albano
Sabina-Poggio Mirteto
Territorial abbeys
Montecassino
Subiaco
Suffragan dioceses
Gaeta
Anagni-Alatri
Civita Castellana
Civitavecchia-Tarquinia
Frosinone-Veroli-Ferentino
Latina-Terracina-Sezze-Priverno
Rieti
Sora-Cassino-Aquino-Pontecorvo
Tivoli
Viterbo
Propertiesincludingextra-territorialityInsideRome
Major basilicas
St. Peter's Basilica
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Lateran Palace
Lateran University
Scala Sancta
Adjoining buildings
Palace of Saint Callixtus
Gianicolo Hill area
Pontifical Urban University
Pontifical North American College
Bambino Gesù Hospital
Palazzo della Cancelleria
Palace of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples
Palace of the Holy Office
Palace of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches
Palazzo Pio
Palace of the Vicariate
Pontifical Minor Roman Seminary
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Benedictine monastery
Pontifical Oratory of San Paolo
Beda College
Paul VI Audience Hall
Non-extraterritorial
Palace of the Holy Apostles
Palace of San Carlo ai Catinari
Collegio Bellarmino
Archaeological Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pontifical Lombard Seminary
Russian College
Two Palaces of Sant'Apollinare
House of Retreat for the Clergy of Saints John and Paul
Nympheum of Nero
OutsideRome
Papal Palace of Castel Gandolfo
Papal farm
Gardens of the Villa Cybo
Villa Barberini
Adjacent gardens
Summer estate of Pontificio Collegio Urbano de Propaganda Fide
Vatican Radio antennae area of Santa Maria di Galeria
Non-extraterritorial
Basilica of the Holy House
Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua
See also
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Awards
Papal household
Peter's Pence
Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Swiss Guard
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteNobility of EuropePresent monarchies
Belgium
Denmark
Netherlands
Norway
Spain
Sweden
United Kingdom
Vatican City
Former monarchies
Albania
Austria
Bulgaria
Croatia
Czechia
Estonia and Latvia
Finland
France
Kingdom
Empire
Germany
Hungary
Iceland
Italy
Ireland
Lithuania
Malta
Montenegro
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Ruthenia
Galicia
Serbia
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Black_nobility&amp;oldid=968534092"
		Categories: History of the papacyItalian nobilityNobility of the Holy SeeKingdom of Italy (1861–1946)1870 in Italy1929 in ItalyHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from May 2012All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Italian-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2014Articles with Latin-language sources (la)
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		العربيةAzərbaycancaБеларускаяБългарскиCatalàEspañolEsperantoFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoNederlands日本語PortuguêsРусскийSuomiУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 19 July 2020, at 23:57 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
