	List of Catholic dioceses in Mexico
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Mexico)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		The Roman Catholic Church in Mexico comprises eighteen ecclesiastical provinces each headed by an archbishop. The provinces in turn comprise 18 archdioceses, 69 dioceses, and 5 territorial prelatures and each headed by a bishop (of some kind).
Contents
1 List of Dioceses
1.1 Ecclesiastical province of Acapulco
1.2 Ecclesiastical province of Antequera, Oaxaca
1.3 Ecclesiastical province of Chihuahua
1.4 Ecclesiastical province of Durango
1.5 Ecclesiastical province of Guadalajara
1.6 Ecclesiastical province of Hermosillo
1.7 Ecclesiastical province of Jalapa (Xalapa)
1.8 Ecclesiastical province of León
1.9 Ecclesiastical province of México
1.10 Ecclesiastical province of Monterrey
1.11 Ecclesiastical province of Morelia
1.12 Ecclesiastical province of Puebla de los Angeles
1.13 Ecclesiastical province of San Luis Potosí
1.14 Ecclesiastical province of Tijuana
1.15 Ecclesiastical province of Tlalnepantla
1.16 Ecclesiastical province of Tulancingo
1.17 Ecclesiastical province of Tuxtla Gutiérrez
1.18 Ecclesiastical province of Yucatán
2 Gallery of Episcopal Sees
3 References
4 External links
List of Dioceses[edit]
Ecclesiastical province of Acapulco[edit]
Archdiocese of Acapulco
Diocese of Chilpancingo-Chilapa
Diocese of Ciudad Altamirano
Diocese of Tlapa
Ecclesiastical province of Antequera, Oaxaca[edit]
Archdiocese of Antequera, Oaxaca
Diocese of Puerto Escondido
Diocese of Tehuantepec
Diocese of Tuxtepec
Prelature of Huautla
Prelature of Mixes
Ecclesiastical province of Chihuahua[edit]
Archdiocese of Chihuahua
Diocese of Ciudad Juárez
Diocese of Cuauhtémoc-Madera
Diocese of Nuevo Casas Grandes
Diocese of Parral
Diocese of Tarahumara
Ecclesiastical province of Durango[edit]
Archdiocese of Durango
Diocese of Mazatlán
Diocese of Torreón
Dioecese of Gómez Palacio
Prelature of El Salto
Ecclesiastical province of Guadalajara[edit]
Archdiocese of Guadalajara
Diocese of Aguascalientes
Diocese of Autlán
Diocese of Ciudad Guzmán
Diocese of Colima
Diocese of San Juan de los Lagos
Diocese of Tepic
Prelature of Jesús María del Nayar
Ecclesiastical province of Hermosillo[edit]
Archdiocese of Hermosillo
Diocese of Ciudad Obregón
Diocese of Culiacán
Diocese of Nogales
Ecclesiastical province of Jalapa (Xalapa)[edit]
Archdiocese of Jalapa (Xalapa)
Diocese of Coatzacoalcos
Diocese of Córdoba
Diocese of Orizaba
Diocese of Papantla
Diocese of San Andrés Tuxtla
Diocese of Tuxpan
Diocese of Veracruz
Ecclesiastical province of León[edit]
Archdiocese of León
Diocese of Celaya
Diocese of Irapuato
Diocese of Querétaro
Ecclesiastical province of México[edit]
Archdiocese of Mexico
Diocese of Atlacomulco de Fabela
Diocese of Cuernavaca
Diocese of Toluca de Lerdo
Ecclesiastical province of Monterrey[edit]
Archdiocese of Monterrey
Diocese of Ciudad Victoria
Diocese of Linares
Diocese of Matamoros
Diocese of Nuevo Laredo
Diocese of Piedras Negras
Diocese of Saltillo
Diocese of Tampico
Ecclesiastical province of Morelia[edit]
Archdiocese of Morelia
Diocese of Apatzingan
Diocese of Ciudad Lázaro Cárdenas
Diocese of Tacámbaro
Diocese of Zamora
Ecclesiastical province of Puebla de los Angeles[edit]
Archdiocese of Puebla de los Angeles
Diocese of Huajuapan de León
Diocese of Tehuacán
Diocese of Tlaxcala
Ecclesiastical province of San Luis Potosí[edit]
Archdiocese of San Luis Potosí
Diocese of Ciudad Valles
Diocese of Matehuala
Diocese of Zacatecas
Ecclesiastical province of Tijuana[edit]
Archdiocese of Tijuana
Diocese of Ensenada
Diocese of La Paz en la Baja California Sur
Diocese of Mexicali
Ecclesiastical province of Tlalnepantla[edit]
Archdiocese of Tlalnepantla
Diocese of Cuautitlán
Diocese of Ecatepec
Diocese of Netzahualcóyotl
Diocese of Texcoco
Diocese of Valle de Chalco
Ecclesiastical province of Tulancingo[edit]
Archdiocese of Tulancingo
Diocese of Huejutla
Diocese of Tula
Ecclesiastical province of Tuxtla Gutiérrez[edit]
Archdiocese of Tuxtla Gutiérrez
Diocese of San Cristóbal de Las Casas
Diocese of Tapachula
Ecclesiastical province of Yucatán[edit]
Archdiocese of Yucatán
Diocese of Campeche
Diocese of Tabasco
Prelature of Cancún-Chetumal
Gallery of Episcopal Sees[edit]
The seat of the Archdiocese of Acapulco is Catedral de Nuestra Señora de la Soledad.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Antequera is  Catedral Metropolitana de Nuestra Señora de la Asunción.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Chihuahua is  Catedral Metropolitana de Chihuahua.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Durango is Catedral Basílica de Nuestra Señora.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Guadalajara is  Catedral de la Asunción de María Santísima.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Hermosillo is  Catedral de la Ascunsión.
The seat of the Archdiocese of León is Catedral Basílica de Nuestra Señora de la Luz.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Mexico City is  Catedral Metropolitana de la Asunción de María.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Monterrey is Catedral Metropolitana de Nuestra Señora de Monterrey.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Morelia is  Catedral de San Salvador.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Puebla de los Angeles is  Catedral Metropolitana de Nuestra Señora de la Purísima Concepción.
The seat of the Archdiocese of San Luis Potosí is Catedral Metropolitana de San Luis Rey.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Tijuana is Catedral de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Tlalnepantla is Catedral de Corpus Christi.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Tulancingo is Catedral de San Juan Bautista.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Tuxtla Gutiérrez is Catedral de San Marcos.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Xalapa is  Catedral Metropolitana de la Immaculada Concepción.
The seat of the Archdiocese of Yucatán is  Catedral Metropolitana de San Ildefonso.
References[edit]
External links[edit]
GCatholic.org.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_Catholic_dioceses_in_Mexico&amp;oldid=958810018"
		Categories: Catholic Church in MexicoRoman Catholic dioceses in MexicoLists of Roman Catholic dioceses by country
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Español한국어Bahasa IndonesiaPolskiPortuguês中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 25 May 2020, at 20:34 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
