	Ovary (botany)
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		  Longitudinal section of female flower of squash showing pistil (=ovary+style+stigma), ovules, and petals.  The petals and sepals are above the ovary; such a flower is said to have an inferior ovary, or the flower is said to be epigynous.
  Cross section of Tulip ovary
In the flowering plants, an ovary is a part of the female reproductive organ of the flower or gynoecium. Specifically, it is the part of the pistil which holds the ovule(s) and is located above or below or at the point of connection with the base of the petals and sepals. The pistil may be made up of one carpel or of several fused carpels (e.g. dicarpel or tricarpel), and therefore the ovary can contain part of one carpel or parts of several fused carpels.  Above the ovary is the style and the stigma, which is where the pollen lands and germinates to grow down through the style to the ovary, and, for each individual pollen grain, to fertilize one individual ovule.  Some wind pollinated flowers have much reduced and modified ovaries.
Contents
1 Fruits
2 Parts of the ovary
3 Classification based on position
3.1 Superior ovary
3.2 Half-inferior ovary
3.3 Inferior ovary
4 See also
5 References
Fruits[edit]
A fruit is the ripened ovary or ovaries—together with seeds—from one or more flowers. The fruits of a plant are responsible for dispersing the seeds that contain the embryo and protecting the seeds as well. In many species, the fruit incorporates some surrounding tissues, or is dispersed with some non-fruit tissues.
Parts of the ovary[edit]
Locules are chambers within the ovary of the flower and fruits. The locules contain the ovules (seeds), and may or may not be filled with fruit flesh. Depending on the number of locules in the ovary, fruits can be classified as uni-locular (unilocular), bi-locular, tri-locular or multi-locular. Some plants have septa between the carpels; the number of locules present in a gynoecium may be equal to or less than the number of carpels, depending on whether septa are present.
The ovules are attached to parts of the interior ovary walls called the placentae. Placental areas occur in various positions, corresponding to various parts of the carpels that make up the ovary. See Ovule#Location within the plant. An obturator is present in the ovary of some plants, near the micropyle of each ovule. It is an outgrowth of the placenta, important in nourishing and guiding pollen tubes to the micropyle.[1]
The ovary of some types of fruit is dehiscent; the ovary wall splits into sections called valves. There is no standard correspondence between the valves and the position of the septa; the valves may separate by splitting the septa (septicidal dehiscence), or by spitting between them (loculicidal dehiscence), or the ovary may open in other ways, as through pores or because a cap falls off.
The syncarpous ovary of this melon is made up of four carpels, and has one locule.
In this Peganum harmala, the ovary of a fruit has split into valves.
The seeds in a tomato fruit grow from placental areas at the interior of the ovary. (This is axile placentation in a bi-locular fruit.)
The placentae in Lunaria are along the margins of the fruit, where two carpels fuse. (This is parietal placentation in a bi-locular fruit.)
The valves of Lunaria fruit fall to reveal a septum that was between the two carpels of the ovary.
Classification based on position[edit]
  Ovary insertion: I superior II half-inferior III inferior. a androecium g gynoecium p petals s sepals r receptacle. The insertion point is where a, p, and s converge.
The terminology of the positions of ovaries is determined by the insertion point, where the other floral parts (perianth and androecium) come together and attach to the surface of the ovary.[2] If the ovary is situated above the insertion point, it is superior; if below, inferior.
Superior ovary[edit]
A superior ovary is an ovary attached to the receptacle above the attachment of other floral parts. A superior ovary is found in types of fleshy fruits such as true berries, drupes, etc. A flower with this arrangement is described as hypogynous. Examples of this ovary type include the legumes (beans and peas and their relatives).
Half-inferior ovary[edit]
A half-inferior ovary (also known as “half-superior”, “subinferior,” or “partially inferior,”) is embedded or surrounded by the receptacle.[3] 
This occurs in flowers of the family Lythraceae, which includes the crape myrtles. Such flowers are termed perigynous or half-epigynous. In some classifications, half-inferior ovaries are not recognized and are instead grouped with either the superior or inferior ovaries.
More specifically, a half-inferior ovary has nearly equal portions of ovary above and below the insertion point. Other varying degrees of inferiority can be described by other fractions. For instance, a "one-fifth inferior ovary" has approximately one fifth of its length under the insertion point. Likewise, only one quarter portion of a "three-quarters inferior ovary" is above the insertion.
Inferior ovary[edit]
An inferior ovary lies below the attachment of other floral parts. A pome is a type of fleshy fruit that is often cited as an example, but close inspection of some pomes (such as Pyracantha) will show that it is really a half-inferior ovary.  
Flowers with inferior ovaries are termed epigynous. Some examples of flowers with an inferior ovary are orchids (inferior capsule), Fuchsia (inferior berry), banana (inferior berry), Asteraceae (inferior achene-like fruit, called a cypsela) and the pepo of the squash, melon and gourd family, Cucurbitaceae.
See also[edit]
Fruit anatomy
References[edit]
^ Hickey, M.; King, C. (2001), The Cambridge Illustrated Glossary of Botanical Terms, Cambridge University Press.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Soltis, Douglas E.; Fishbein, Mark; Kuzoff, Robert K. (2003). "Evolution of Epigyny". International Journal of Plant Sciences. 164 (S5): S251–S264. doi:10.1086/376876.
^ Soltis, Douglas E.; Hufford, Larry (2002). "Ovary Position Diversity in Saxifragaceae". International Journal of Plant Sciences. 163 (2): 277–293. doi:10.1086/324528.
vteBotanyHistory of botanySubdisciplines
Plant systematics
Ethnobotany
Paleobotany
Plant anatomy
Plant ecology
Phytogeography
Geobotany
Flora
Phytochemistry
Plant pathology
Bryology
Phycology
Floristics
Dendrology
Astrobotany
Plant groups
Algae
Archaeplastida
Bryophyte
Non-vascular plants
Vascular plants
Spermatophytes
Pteridophyte
Gymnosperm
Angiosperm
Plant morphology.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}(glossary)Plant cells
Cell wall
Phragmoplast
Plastid
Plasmodesma
Vacuole
Tissues
Meristem
Vascular tissue
Vascular bundle
Ground tissue
Mesophyll
Cork
Wood
Storage organs
Vegetative
Root
Rhizoid
Bulb
Rhizome
Shoot
Stem
Leaf
Petiole
Cataphyll
Bud
Sessility
Reproductive(Flower)
Flower development
Inflorescence
Umbel
Raceme
Bract
Pedicellate
Flower
Aestivation
Whorl
Floral symmetry
Floral diagram
Floral formula
Receptacle
Hypanthium (Floral cup)
Perianth
Tepal
Petal
Sepal
Sporophyll
Gynoecium
Ovary
Ovule
Stigma
Archegonium
Androecium
Stamen
Staminode
Pollen
Tapetum
Gynandrium
Gametophyte
Sporophyte
Plant embryo
Fruit
Fruit anatomy
Berry
Capsule
Seed
Seed dispersal
Endosperm
Surface structures
Epicuticular wax
Plant cuticle
Epidermis
Stoma
Nectary
Trichome
Prickle
Plant physiologyMaterials
Nutrition
Photosynthesis
Chlorophyll
Plant hormone
Transpiration
Turgor pressure
Bulk flow
Aleurone
Phytomelanin
Sugar
Sap
Starch
Cellulose
Plant growth and habit
Secondary growth
Woody plants
Herbaceous plants
Habit
Vines
Lianas
Shrubs
Subshrubs
Trees
Succulent plants
Reproduction EvolutionEcology
Alternation of generations
Sporangium
Spore
Microsporangia
Microspore
Megasporangium
Megaspore
Pollination
Artificial
Pollinators
Pollen tube
Self
Double fertilization
Germination
Evolutionary development
Evolutionary history
timeline
Plant taxonomy
History of plant systematics
Herbarium
Biological classification
Botanical nomenclature
Botanical name
Correct name
Author citation
International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN)
International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants (ICNCP)
Taxonomic rank
International Association for Plant Taxonomy (IAPT)
Plant taxonomy systems
Cultivated plant taxonomy
Citrus taxonomy
Cultigen
Cultivar
Group
Grex
Practice
Agronomy
Floriculture
Forestry
Horticulture
ListsRelated topics
Botanical terms
Botanists
by author abbreviation
Botanical expedition
Category
WikiProject
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ovary_(botany)&amp;oldid=979600400"
		Categories: Organs (anatomy)Plant morphology
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		AfrikaansБеларускаяBoarischBosanskiCatalàČeštinaDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어HornjoserbsceÍslenskaItalianoქართულიKreyòl ayisyenLatinaLietuviųLumbaartമലയാളംNederlandsNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSlovenčinaతెలుగుTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 21 September 2020, at 17:20 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
