	Dekemvriana
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Dekemvriana" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (April 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
@media all and (min-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .desktop-float-right{box-sizing:border-box;float:right;clear:right}}.mw-parser-output .infobox.vevent .status>p:first-child{margin:0}DekemvrianaPart of the World War II, the Greek Civil War and the Cold WarA Sherman tank and troops from the 5th (Scottish) Parachute Battalion, British 2nd Parachute Brigade together with their Greek allies, fighting against members of ELAS in Athens, 18 December 1944.Date3 December 1944 – 11 January 1945(1 month, 1 week and 1 day)LocationGreece, AthensResult
Kingdom of Greece victory
Treaty of VarkizaBelligerents
 Kingdom of Greece
Georgios Papandreou Government (1944) [el]
Nikolaos Plastiras Government (1945) [el]
3rd Mountain Brigade
Sacred Band
Hellenic Gendarmerie
Cities Police
National Guard [el]
 ΡΕΑΝ RAN Organization XEx-members of the Security Battalions EDES (in Epirus) United Kingdom
British Army
 EAM
 ELAS
 National Civil Guard
 OPLA
 Students Band "Lord Byron"
other EAM's organizationsCommanders and leaders
 Archbishop Damaskinos Georgios Papandreou Nikolaos Plastiras Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos Christodoulos Tsigantes Angelos Evert Georgios Grivas Dionysios Papadongonas  † Winston Churchill Ronald Scobie John Hawkesworth
 Georgios Siantos Manolis Mantakas Giannis Zevgos Grigoris Farakos Konstantinos LaggouranisStrength
 11,600 4,000-4,500(since 12-16 Dec. 1944) 80,000-90,000(since 18 Dec. 1944)
 17,800Casualties and losses
 1,200 killed   c. 210 killed1,000 wounded733 missing
 c. 2,000 killedvteGreek Civil WarFirst phase
5/42 dissolution
Meligalas
Kilkis
Dekemvriana
Thiseio-Makrygianni
Third phase
Litochoro attack
Operation Limnes (Konitsa, Thessaloniki bombing)
Ierapetra
Operation Charavgi
Makronisos
Operation Koronis
Operation Peristera
Operation Pyravlos
Operation Pyrsos
The Dekemvriana (Greek: Δεκεμβριανά, "December events") refers to a series of clashes fought during World War II in Athens from 3 December 1944 to 11 January 1945. The conflict was the culmination of months of tension between the communist EAM, some parts of its military wing, the ELAS stationed in Athens, the KKE and the OPLA from one side and from the other side, the Greek Government [el], some parts of the Hellenic Royal Army, the Hellenic Gendarmerie, the Cities Police, the far-right Organization X, among others and also the British Army.[1]
Regardless of the tensions between the left and the right, in May 1944 it had been roughly agreed in the Lebanon Conference that all non-collaborationist factions would participate in a Government of National Unity; eventually 6 out of 24 ministers were appointed by EAM.  Additionally, a few weeks before the withdrawal of the German troops in October 1944, it had been reaffirmed in the Caserta Agreement that all collaborationist forces would be tried and punished accordingly; and that all resistance forces would participate in the formation of the new Greek Army, under the command of the British.  Yet, on December 1, the British commander Ronald Scobie ordered the unilateral disarmament of EAM-ELAS. The EAM ministers resigned on the 2nd of December and EAM called for a rally in central Athens on the 3rd, requesting the immediate punishment of the collaborationist Security Battalions and the withdrawal of the "Scobie order". The rally of some 200,000 people was shot at by the Greek Police and Gendarmerie, leaving 28 protesters dead and 148 wounded.  These killings ushered a full-blown armed confrontation between EAM and the Government forces at first (which included the Security Battalions), and during the second half of December, against the British military forces.
The clashes were limited to Athens, while elsewhere in Greece the situation remained tense but peaceful, with the exception of Epirus where Aris Velouchiotis attacked the forces of Napoleon Zervas.
The Dekemvriana ended with the defeat of EAM-ELAS, leading to its disarmament in the Varkiza Agreement which marked the end of ELAS. This first defeat broke the power of EAM. This together with the EAM-instigated "Red Terror", was followed by a period of "White Terror" against the Left,[2] which contributed to the outbreak of the Greek Civil War in 1946. The clashes of Dekemvriana were among the bloodiest battles in modern Greek history, with a high rate of civilians deaths.
Contents
1 Background
2 The events
3 Churchill in Athens
4 Aftermath
5 People
6 References
7 Further reading
Background[edit]
See also: Percentages agreement
By 1944, the two major resistance movements in occupied Greece, EDES and EAM-ELAS, each saw the other to be their great enemy. They both saw the Germans were going to be defeated and were a temporary threat. For the communists, the British represented their major obstacle.
  18 October 1944; the crowd celebrates the liberation from Axis powers and the coming of Papandreou government.
By the summer of 1944, it was obvious that the Germans would soon withdraw from Greece, as Soviet forces were advancing into Romania and towards Yugoslavia, with the retreating Germans at risk of being cut off. In September, General Fyodor Tolbukhin's armies advanced into Bulgaria, forcing the resignation of the country's pro-Nazi government and the establishment of a pro-Communist regime, while Bulgarian troops withdrew from Greek Macedonia. The Axis withdrawal, before the exiled government could return to the country, created a power vacuum. The government-in-exile, now led by the prominent liberal George Papandreou, moved to Italy, in preparation for its return to Greece. Under the Caserta Agreement of September 1944, all resistance forces in Greece were to be placed under the command of a British officer, General Ronald Scobie.
According to historian Donny Gluckstein, the British actively sought to delay the German withdrawal in order to prevent ELAS from liberating the country. He cites German plenipotentiary Hermann Neubacher.[3]
The British arrived in Greece in October (Operation Manna) with the exiled Greek government and some units of the Greek army, led by General Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos. By then, the Germans were in full retreat, and most of Greece's territory had already been liberated by Greek partisans.
On October 13, British troops entered Athens and Papandreou and his ministers followed six days later. King George II stayed in Cairo because Papandreou had promised that the future of the monarchy would be decided by referendum.
There was little to prevent ELAS from taking full control of the country. With the German withdrawal, ELAS units had taken control of the countryside and most of the cities. However, they did not take full control because the KKE leadership was instructed by the Soviet Union not to precipitate a crisis that could jeopardize Allied unity and put Stalin's larger postwar objectives at risk. The KKE's leadership knew so, but not the ELAS's fighters and rank-and-file, which became a source of conflict within both EAM and ELAS.
Following Stalin's instructions, the KKE's leadership tried to avoid a confrontation with the Papandreou government. Most ELAS members saw the British as liberators despite some KKE leaders, such as Andreas Tzimas and Aris Velouchiotis. Tzimas was in touch with Yugoslav Communist leader Josip Broz Tito, and he disagreed with ELAS's cooperation with the British forces.
The issue of disarming the resistance organizations was a cause of friction between the Papandreou government and its EAM members. Advised by British ambassador Reginald Leeper, Papandreou demanded the disarmament of all armed forces apart from the Sacred Band and the III Mountain Brigade, which were formed following the suppression of the April 1944 Egypt mutiny, and two equal numbered corps of ELAS and EDES that would take part in operations against the Germans (still occupying Crete), such as the constitution of a National Guard under government control.
The EAM, believing that it would leave the guerillas of ELAS defenseless against anticommunist militias, submitted an alternative plan of total and simultaneous disarmament. Papandreou rejected this plan, causing the EAM ministers to resign from the government on December 2.
On December 1, Scobie issued a proclamation calling for the dissolution of ELAS. Command of ELAS was the KKE's greatest source of strength, and the KKE leader Siantos decided that the demand for ELAS's dissolution must be resisted.
Tito's influence may have played some role in ELAS's resistance to disarmament. Tito was outwardly loyal to Stalin but had come to power through his own means and believed that the Communist Greeks should do the same. His influence, however, had not prevented the EAM leadership from putting its forces under Scobie's command a couple of months earlier, in accordance with the Caserta Agreement. In the meanwhile, following Georgios Grivas's instructions, Organization X members had set up outposts in central Athens and resisted the EAM for several days until British troops arrived, as their leader had been promised.
The events[edit]
  Unarmed protesters of EAM lying dead or wounded on 3 December 1944 in front of the Greek Parliament, while others are running for their lives; moments after the first shootings that left at least 28 dead and signalled the beginning of the Dekemvriana events.
According to the Caserta Agreement, all Greek forces were under the Allied command of Scobie. On December 1, 1944, the Greek government of "National Unity" under Georgios Papandreou and Gen. Scobie (British head of the Allied forces in Greece at that time) announced an ultimatum for the general disarmament of all guerrilla forces by 10 December, excluding those allied to the government (the 3rd Greek Mountain Brigade and the Sacred Band) and also a part of EDES and ELAS that would be used in Allied operations in Crete and the Dodecanese (still under German occupation), if it was necessary. As a result, on December 2, six ministers of the EAM, most of whom were KKE members, resigned from their positions in the "National Unity" government. The EAM called for a general strike and a demonstration in front of the Greek parliament for the next day, December 3.
  An order of General Scobie signed and printed in the government's newspaper "Η ΕΛΛΑΣ" (December 6), enforcing the government's ultimatum (December 1) for the immediate disarmament of all guerilla forces not allied to the government.
The demonstration involved at least 200,000 people marching on Panepistimiou Street towards the Syntagma Square. British tanks along with police units had been scattered around the area, blocking the way of the demonstrators.
The shootings began when the marchers had arrived at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, in front of the Royal palace, above Syntagma Square. They originated from the streets, from the building of the General Police Headquarters, from the Parliament (Vouli), from the Hotel Grande Bretagne (where international observers had settled), from other governmental buildings and from policemen on the street. Among many testimonies, N. Farmakis, then a fifteen-year old member of the Anti-EAM Organization X participating in the shootings, described that he saw the head of the police Angelos Evert giving the order to open fire on the crowd, by means of a handkerchief waved from the window. The sharpshooters had been given a standing order, according to Farmakis, "Don't fire as they are marching, at least up to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. When they march to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, open fire!"[4] Although there are no accounts hinting that the crowd indeed possessed guns, the British commander Woodhouse insisted that it was uncertain whether the first shots were fired by the police or the demonstrators. More than 28 demonstrators were killed, and 148 were injured. This signalled the beginning of the Dekemvriana (Greek: Δεκεμβριανά, "the December events"), a 37-day period of full-scale fighting in Athens between EAM fighters and smaller parts of ELAS, and the forces of the British army and the government.
  ELAS issued pamphlet calling workers from different neighbours of Athens to fight against the Greek Government and its British support (17 December)
  EAM/ELAS drawing about the battle
At the beginning the government had only a few policemen and gendarmes, some militia units, the 3rd Greek Mountain Brigade—distinguished at the Gothic Line offensive in Italy, which, however, lacked heavy weapons — and the royalist group Organization X, also known as "Chítes", which was accused by EAM of collaborating with the Nazis. Consequently, the British intervened in support of the government, freely using artillery and aircraft as the battle approached its last stages.
In the early morning hours of December 4, ELAS reservists began operations in the Athens–Piraeus area, attacking Grivas' X forces[5] and many police stations with success. In the evening, a peaceful demonstration cum funeral procession took place by EAM members. Government forces took no action but the procession was attacked by Chites led by Colonel Grivas, with over 100 dead. Also on December 4, Papandreou gave his resignation to the British Commander, Gen. Scobie, who rejected it.
By December 12, ΕΑΜ was in control of most of Athens, Piraeus and the suburbs. The government and British forces were confined only in the centre of Athens, in an area that was called ironically by the guerillas as Scobia (the Scobie's country).
The British, alarmed by the initial successes of EAM/ELAS and outnumbered, flew in the 4th Indian Infantry Division from Italy as emergency reinforcements. They also transferred John Hawkesworth from Italy to Athens, as assistant to Scobie, who soon took the general command.
Although the British were openly fighting against EAM in Athens, there were no such battles in the rest of the big cities. In certain cases, such as Volos, some RAF units even surrendered equipment to ELAS fighters.[citation needed]. It seems that ELAS preferred to avoid an armed confrontation with the British forces initially and later tried to reduce the conflict as much as possible, although poor communication between its many independent units around the country might also have played a role.[citation needed] This might explain the simultaneous struggle against the British, the large-scale ELAS operations against trotskyists, anarchists and other political dissidents in Athens, and the many contradictory decisions of EAM leaders. Videlicet, KKE's leadership, was supporting a doctrine of "national unity" while eminent members, such as Leonidas Stringos, Theodoros Makridis and even Georgios Siantos, were creating revolutionary plans. Even more curiously, Tito was both the KKE's key sponsor and a key British ally, owing his physical and political survival in 1944 to British assistance.
Churchill in Athens[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Dekemvriana" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (August 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  British tanks and soldiers outside a building of EAM
  Churchill in Athens, December 1944
This outbreak of fighting between Allied forces and an anti-German European resistance movement while the war in Europe was still being fought was a serious political problem for Churchill's coalition government in Britain and caused much protest in the British press and the House of Commons. To prove his peacemaking intentions to the public, Churchill went to Athens with General Alexander, Anthony Eden and Harold Macmillan at Christmas (December 25), to preside over a conference to bring about a settlement, in which Soviet representatives (Popov) also participated.
The conference was to take place in the Hotel Grande Bretagne. Later, it became known that there was a plan by the EAM to blow up the building, aiming to kill the participants, which was finally cancelled.[6][7] Instead the conference took place in Phaliro, on the cruiser Ajax. From the Greek side Siantos, Partsalidis, Mantakas and Sofianopoulos took part for EAM and Regent Damaskinos, Papandreou, Panagiotis Kanellopoulos, Sofoulis, Kafantaris, Dimitris Maximos, Stefanos Stefanopoulos, Gonatas, Tsaldaris and as a special personality Nikolaos Plastiras for the government. It failed because the EAM/ELAS demands were considered excessive.
Meanwhile, the Soviet Union remained passive about developments in Greece. True to the informal Percentages agreement struck between Stalin and Churchill that placed Greece in the British sphere of influence, the Soviet delegation in Greece did not encourage or discourage the EAM's ambitions. The delegation's chief gained the nickname "sphinx" among local Communist officers for not giving any clues about Soviet intentions. Pravda did not mention the clashes at all.
  Building with bullet holes from Dekemvriana in Athens (2014)[citation needed]
By early January, EAM forces had lost the battle. Despite Churchill's intervention, Papandreou resigned and was replaced by General Nikolaos Plastiras. On 15 January 1945, Scobie agreed to a ceasefire in exchange for the ELAS's withdrawal from its positions at Patras and Thessaloniki and its demobilization in the Peloponnese.
Aftermath[edit]
The communist guerillas, led by Siantos, evacuated the capital taking thousands of hostages. During their retreat to central Greece, many of them died from the cold or hardships. Circa 13,000 members of EAM/ELAS had also been arrested and transferred by the British to concentration camps.
The new government of Plastiras and the Communist party signed in February 1945 the Treaty of Varkiza in an effort of accord.
People[edit]
Participants with the EAM/ELAS side included among others Kostas Axelos, Iannis Xenakis, Manolis Glezos, Apostolos Santas, Mikis Theodorakis, Memos Makris  Aimilios Veakis, Dimitris Partsalidis and Nikos Koundouros.
Participants with the government/British side included Anastasios Peponis, Stylianos Pattakos, Konstantinos Ventiris and Panagiotis Spiliotopoulos.
References[edit]
^ Iatrides, John O. Revolt in Athens: The Greek Communist “Second Round” 1944–1945, Princeton University Press, 2015. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 9780691619651
^ 
Kostopoulos, Tasos (2016-12-11). "Η "συμμοριοποίηση" του κράτους" [The gang-ification of the state]. Η Εφημεριδα των Συντακτων (in Greek). Athens. Archived from the original on 2016-12-11. Retrieved 2016-12-11.
^ Gluckstein, Donny (2012). A people's history of the Second World War : resistance versus empire. London: Pluto Press. p. 47. ISBN 978-0-7453-2802-7.
^ Δεκεμβριανά 1944 [Dekemriana 1944] (flv) (Television production). tvxs (Reporters Without Frontiers), Stelios Kouloglou. 2006-05-01. Retrieved 2011-12-26.
^ Charles R. Shrader, The Withered Vine: Logistics and the Communist Insurgency in Greece, 1945-1949, Praeger, 1999, p. 39.
^ Petropoulos, Giorgos (24 Dec 2013). Η εκκωφαντική ανατίναξη που δεν έγινε [The thunderous explosion that never came to be]. Εφημερίδα των συντακτών (in Greek). Athens: www.efsyn.gr. Retrieved 5 Aug 2014.
^ Vulliamy, Ed; Smith, Helena. "Athens 1944: Britain's dirty secret". guardian. Retrieved 30 Nov 2014.
Further reading[edit]
Hassiotis, Loukianos (2015). "The Dekemvriana through the Eyes of the British Soldiers". Journal of Modern Greek Studies. 33 (2): 269–291. doi:10.1353/mgs.2015.0032.
vteGreece during World War II1940–1941 Balkans CampaignGreco-Italian War.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}(1940–1941)Battles
Pindus
Elaia–Kalamas
Korytsa/Korcë
Saranda
Morava–Ivan
Himara
Klisura Pass
Trebeshina
Italian Spring Offensive
Hill 731
Leaders Greece
Ioannis Metaxas
Alexandros Papagos
Charalambos Katsimitros
Konstantinos Davakis
Markos Drakos and Ioannis Pitsikas
Dimitrios Papadopoulos
Georgios Kosmas
 Italy
Benito Mussolini
Galeazzo Ciano
Sebastiano Visconti Prasca
Ubaldo Soddu
Ugo Cavallero
Carlo Geloso
Units Greece
8th Infantry Division
Epirus Army Section
Western Macedonia Army Section
 Italy
9th Army
11th Army
German invasion(April–May 1941)Battles
Metaxas Line
Vevi
Kleisoura Pass
Thermopylae
Crete
Leaders Greece
King George II
Alexandros Papagos
Konstantinos Bakopoulos
Georgios Tsolakoglou
 British Commonwealth
Henry Maitland Wilson
Thomas Blamey
Bernard Freyberg
 Germany
Wilhelm List
Sepp Dietrich
Kurt Student
Units Greece
Eastern Macedonia Army Section
Central Macedonia Army Section
Epirus Army Section
 British Commonwealth
1st Armoured Brigade
2nd New Zealand Division
6th Australian Division
 Germany
XVIII Army Corps
XXXX Panzer Corps
Luftflotte 4
1st Parachute Division
5th Mountain Division
Occupation and collaborationOccupyingpowersLeaders andcommands Germany
Günther Altenburg
Hermann Neubacher
Walter Schimana
Alexander Löhr
Army Group E
Hellmuth Felmy
LXVIII Army Corps
Hubert Lanz
XXII Mountain Corps
Alexander Andrae, Bruno Bräuer and Friedrich-Wilhelm Müller
Fortress Crete
Max Merten
 Italy
Angelico Carta
Pellegrino Ghigi
Piero Parini
Carlo Geloso and Carlo Vecchiarelli [it]
11th Army
III Army Corps [it]
VIII Army Corps
XXVI Corps
 Bulgaria
Ivan Markov [bg]
Trifon Trifonov [bg]
Asen Sirakov [bg]
Atrocities
Kondomari
Kandanos
Alikianos
Doxato
Kommeno
Kalavryta
Lyngiades
Distomo
Domenikon
Drakeia
Acqui Division
Mesovouno
Pyrgoi
Vorizia
Viannos
Kallikratis and Kali Sykia
Anogeia
Kedros
Kleisoura
Haidari concentration camp
Larissa concentration camp
200 of Kaisariani
Chortiatis
The Holocaust in Greece
Economicexploitation
Greek economy, 1941–1944
Great Famine
DEGRIGES
Compulsory loan [de]
Occupation Reichsmark [el]
CollaborationistgovernmentPeople
Georgios Tsolakoglou
K. Logothetopoulos
Ioannis Rallis
Georgios Poulos
Friedrich Schubert
Nikolaos Bourandas
George S. Mercouris
Ioannis Plytzanopoulos
Sotirios Gotzamanis
Organizations
Security Battalions
Hellenic Socialist Patriotic Organisation (ESPO)
National Union of Greece (EEE)
Greek National Socialist Party
Secessionists
Vlach "Roman Legion"
Alcibiades Diamandi
Nicolaos Matussis
Ohrana
Andon Kalchev
Cham collaboration
Këshilla
Xhemil Dino
Atrocities
Paramythia
Kokkinia [el]
Resistance and Free GreeceNational LiberationFront (EAM)People
Aris Velouchiotis
Stefanos Sarafis
Andreas Tzimas
Georgios Siantos
Alexandros Svolos
Ilias Tsirimokos
Markos Vafeiadis
Evripidis Bakirtzis
Organizations
Communist Party of Greece (KKE)
Socialist Party of Greece (SKE)
Union of People's Democracy (ELD)
Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS)
Greek People's Liberation Navy (ELAN)
Political Committee of National Liberation (PEEA) and National Council
United Panhellenic Organization of Youth (EPON)
National Solidarity (EA)
Organization for the Protection of the People's Struggle (OPLA)
Slavic-Macedonian National Liberation Front (SNOF)
Operations
Drama uprising
Reka
Mikro Chorio
Gorgopotamos Bridge
Meritsa
Fardykambos
Sarantaporo
Porta
1943 Athens protest
Pinerolo disarmament
Steiri
Agorelitsa
Kournovo Tunnel
Killing of Franz Krech
Atrocities
Feneos executions
5/42 Regiment dissolution
Meligalas
Kilkis
Non-EAM resistancePeople
Napoleon Zervas
Georgios Kartalis
Dimitrios Psarros
Komninos Pyromaglou
Kostas Perrikos
Ilias Degiannis
Vasileios Sachinis
Lela Karagianni
Konstantinos Ventiris
Manolis Paterakis
Petrakogiorgis
Kimonas Zografakis
Organizations
National Republican Greek League (EDES)
National Bands of Greek Guerrillas (EOEA)
National and Social Liberation (EKKA)
5/42 Regiment
Defenders of Northern Greece (YVE) / Panhellenic Liberation Organization (PAO)
Panhellenic Union of Fighting Youths (PEAN)
Prometheus II
Apollo
National Organization of Crete (ΕΟΚ)
Hellenic Army (ES)
Northern Epirus Liberation Front (MAVI)
others...
Operations
ESPO bombing
Gorgopotamos Bridge (Operation "Harling")
Agia Kyriaki
Milia
Skala Paramythias
Execution of Josef Salminger
Xirovouni
Trahili
Menina
Dodona
Atrocities
Expulsion of Cham Albanians
British Military Mission (SOE)People
Eddie Myers
Chris Woodhouse
Patrick Leigh Fermor
Bill Stanley Moss
Themis Marinos
Jerzy Iwanow-Szajnowicz
Operations
Operation "Albumen"
Gorgopotamos Bridge (Operation "Harling")
Operation "Animals"
Asopos Bridge (Operation "Washing")
Kidnap of Heinrich Kreipe
Damasta sabotage
Greek government-in-exileGreek governmentin exileEvents/Battles
Mareth Line
El Alamein
Wadi Akarit
Dodecanese
April 1944 mutiny
Rimini
Symi
Santorini
People
King George II
Emmanouil Tsouderos
Sofoklis Venizelos
Panagiotis Kanellopoulos
Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos
Christodoulos Tsigantes
Pafsanias Katsotas
Greek Armed Forcesin the Middle East
3rd Mountain Brigade
Sacred Band
Vasilissa Olga
Adrias
Katsonis
Papanikolis
13th Squadron
335th Squadron
336th Squadron
Liberation and road to the civil warPrelude to Civil WarEvents
National Bands Agreement
Plaka agreement [el]
Lebanon Conference
Caserta Agreement
Operation "Manna"
Percentages agreement
Dekemvriana
Treaty of Varkiza
People
Ronald Scobie
Georgios Papandreou
Archbishop Damaskinos
Georgios Grivas
Angelos Evert
Nikos Zachariadis
vteGreek Civil WarBackground
4th of August Regime
Axis occupation of Greece
Greek Resistance
National Liberation Front
Greek People's Liberation Army
National Republican Greek League
Collaborationist governments
Security Battalions
Greek government-in-exile
Red Terror
Lebanon Conference
Caserta Agreement
Battle of Meligalas
Battle of Kilkis (1944)
Dekemvriana
Treaty of Varkiza
White Terror
1946 general elections
1946 monarchy referendum
Events (1946-49)
Litochoro attack
Truman Doctrine
Battle of Konitsa
Thessaloniki bombing
Capture of Ierapetra
Operation Charavgi
Massacre of the First Sapper Battalion
Operation Koronis
Operation Peristera
Operation Pyravlos
Tito–Stalin split
Operation Pyrsos
Communists
Communist Party of Greece
Provisional Democratic Government
Democratic Army of Greece
Popular Civil Guard
National Liberation Front (Macedonia)
Nikos Zachariadis
Markos Vafiadis
Charilaos Florakis
National Government
George II of Greece
Paul of Greece
Archbishop Damaskinos of Athens
Themistoklis Sofoulis
Konstantinos Tsaldaris
Alexandros Papagos
Konstantinos Ventiris
Konstantinos Dovas
Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos
Dimitrios Giatzis
James Van Fleet
Hellenic Army
Royal Hellenic Air Force
Greek Gendarmerie
Countryside Security Units
TEA
Impact and aftermath
Refugees
Internal exile
Sacred Bond of Greek Officers
Centrist Interlude
Greek junta
Metapolitefsi
vteWorld War II
Outline
Military engagements
Battles
Operations
Commanders
Casualties
Conferences
GeneralTopics
Air warfare of World War II
In Europe
Blitzkrieg
Comparative military ranks
Cryptography
Declarations of war
Diplomacy
Governments in exile
Home front
United States
Australian
United Kingdom
Lend-Lease
Manhattan Project
Military awards
Military equipment
Military production
Naval history
Nazi plunder
Opposition
Technology
Allied cooperation
Mulberry harbour
Total war
Strategic bombing
Puppet states
Women
Art and World War II
Theaters
Asia and Pacific
China
South-East Asia
Pacific
North and Central Pacific
South-West Pacific
Indian Ocean
Europe
Western Front
Eastern Front
Mediterranean and Middle East
North Africa
East Africa
Italy
West Africa
Atlantic
North America
South America
Aftermath
Greek Civil War
Expulsion of Germans
Paperclip
Osoaviakhim
Keelhaul
Occupation of Germany
Territorial changes of Germany
Soviet occupations
Romania
Poland
Hungary
Baltic
Occupation of Japan
First Indochina War
Indonesian National Revolution
Chinese Civil War
Division of Korea
Cold War
Decolonization
Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany
War crimes
Allied war crimes
Soviet war crimes
British war crimes
United States war crimes
German war crimes
forced labour
Wehrmacht war crimes
The Holocaust
Aftermath
Response
Nuremberg trials
Italian war crimes
Japanese war crimes
Unit 731
Prosecution
Croatian war crimes
Genocide of Serbs
Persecution of Jews
Romanian war crimes
Sexual violence
German military brothels
Camp brothels
Rape during the occupation of Japan
Sook Ching
Comfort women
Ianjo
Rape of Nanking
Rape of Manila
Rape during the occupation of Germany
Rape during the liberation of France
Rape during the Soviet occupation of Poland
ParticipantsAllies
Allied leaders
Australia
Belgium
Brazil
Canada
China
Cuba
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Ethiopia
Eswatini
France
Free France
Greece
India
Italy (from September 1943)
Luxembourg
Mexico
Netherlands
Newfoundland
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Southern Rhodesia
Soviet Union
Tuva
United Kingdom
United States
Puerto Rico
Yugoslavia
Axis
Axis leaders
Albania protectorate
Bulgaria
Wang Jingwei regime
Croatia
Finland
Germany
Hungary
Free India
Iraq
Italy (until September 1943)
Italian Social Republic
Japan
Manchukuo
Philippines
Romania
Slovakia
Thailand
Vichy France
Resistance
Albania
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Czech lands
Denmark
Estonia
Ethiopia
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Jews
Korea
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaya
Netherlands
Northeast China
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Thailand
Soviet Union
Slovakia
Western Ukraine
Vietnam
Yugoslavia
POWs
Finnish prisoners in the Soviet Union
German prisoners
Soviet Union
United States
United Kingdom
Italian prisoners in the Soviet Union
Japanese prisoners
Soviet Union
Soviet prisoner mistreatment by Germans
Polish prisoners in the Soviet Union
Romanian prisoners in the Soviet Union
Soviet prisoners in Finland
TimelinePrelude
Africa
Asia
Europe
1939
Poland
Phoney War
Winter War
Atlantic
Changsha
China
1940
Weserübung
Netherlands
Belgium
France
Armistice of 22 June 1940
Britain
North Africa
West Africa
British Somaliland
North China
Baltic States
Moldova
Indochina
Greece
Compass
1941
East Africa
Yugoslavia
Shanggao
Greece
Crete
Iraq
Soviet Union
Finland
Lithuania
Syria and Lebanon
Kiev
Iran
Leningrad
Gorky
Moscow
Sevastopol
Pearl Harbor
Hong Kong
Philippines
Changsha
Malaya
Borneo (1941–1942)
Greek famine of 1941–1944
1942
Burma
Changsha
Java Sea
Coral Sea
Gazala
Dutch Harbor
 Attu (occupation)
Kiska
Zhejiang-Jiangxi
Midway
Rzhev
Blue
Stalingrad
Singapore
St Nazaire
Dieppe
El Alamein
Guadalcanal
Torch
Chinese famine of 1942–1943
1943
Tunisia
Kursk
Smolensk
Gorky
Solomon Islands
 Attu
Sicily
Cottage
Lower Dnieper
Italy
Armistice of Cassibile
Gilbert and Marshall Islands
Burma
Northern Burma and Western Yunnan
Changde
Bengal famine of 1943
1944
Monte Cassino / Shingle
Narva
Korsun–Cherkassy
Tempest
Ichi-Go
Overlord
Neptune
Normandy
Mariana and Palau
Bagration
Western Ukraine
Tannenberg Line
Warsaw
Eastern Romania
Belgrade
Paris
Dragoon
Gothic Line
Market Garden
Estonia
Crossbow
Pointblank
Lapland
Hungary
Leyte
Ardennes
Bodenplatte
Philippines (1944–1945)
Burma (1944–1945)
Dutch famine of 1944–1945
1945
Vistula–Oder
Iwo Jima
Western invasion of Germany
Okinawa
Italy (Spring 1945)
Borneo
Syrmian Front
Berlin
Czechoslovakia
Budapest
West Hunan
Guangxi
Surrender of Germany
document
Project Hula
Manchuria
Manila
Borneo
Taipei
Naval bombardment of Japan
Atomic bombings
Debate
Kuril Islands
Shumshu
Vietnamese famine of 1945
Surrender of Japan
document
End of World War II in Asia
Bibliography
Category
Index
Portal
vteCold War
USA
USSR
NATO
ANZUS
SEATO
METO
Warsaw Pact
Non-Aligned Movement
Second Cold War
1940s
Morgenthau Plan
Hukbalahap Rebellion
Jamaican political conflict
Dekemvriana
Percentages agreement
Yalta Conference
Guerrilla war in the Baltic states
Forest Brothers
Operation Priboi
Operation Jungle
Occupation of the Baltic states
Cursed soldiers
Operation Unthinkable
Operation Downfall
Potsdam Conference
Gouzenko Affair
Division of Korea
Operation Masterdom
Operation Beleaguer
Operation Blacklist Forty
Iran crisis of 1946
Greek Civil War
Baruch Plan
Corfu Channel incident
Turkish Straits crisis
Restatement of Policy on Germany
First Indochina War
Truman Doctrine
Asian Relations Conference
May 1947 crises
Marshall Plan
Comecon
1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état
Al-Wathbah uprising
1947–1949 Palestine war
1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1948 Palestinian exodus
Tito–Stalin split
Berlin Blockade
Western betrayal
Iron Curtain
Eastern Bloc
Western Bloc
Chinese Civil War
Malayan Emergency
March 1949 Syrian coup d'état
Albanian Subversion
1950s
Bamboo Curtain
Korean War
McCarthyism
Mau Mau Uprising
Algerian War
Egyptian revolution of 1952
1953 Iranian coup d'état
East German uprising of 1953
Pact of Madrid
Bricker Amendment
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état
1954 Geneva Conference
Jebel Akhdar War
Vietnam War
First Taiwan Strait Crisis
Cyprus Emergency
Geneva Summit (1955)
Bandung Conference
Poznań protests of 1956
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
Suez Crisis
"We will bury you"
Ifni War
Operation Gladio
Arab Cold War
Syrian Crisis of 1957
1958 Lebanon crisis
Iraqi 14 July Revolution
Sputnik crisis
Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
1959 Tibetan uprising
1959 Mosul uprising
Cuban Revolution
Aftermath of the Cuban Revolution
Kitchen Debate
Sino-Soviet split
1960s
Congo Crisis
Simba rebellion
1960 U-2 incident
Bay of Pigs Invasion
1960 Turkish coup d'état
Soviet–Albanian split
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
First Iraqi–Kurdish War
Berlin Crisis of 1961
Berlin Wall
Papua conflict
Sand War
Portuguese Colonial War
Angolan War of Independence
Guinea-Bissau War of Independence
Mozambican War of Independence
Cuban Missile Crisis
El Porteñazo
Sino-Indian War
Communist insurgency in Sarawak
Ramadan Revolution
Eritrean War of Independence
North Yemen Civil War
1963 Syrian coup d'état
Assassination of John F. Kennedy
Aden Emergency
Cyprus crisis of 1963–64
Vietnam War
Shifta War
Mexican Dirty War
Tlatelolco massacre
Guatemalan Civil War
Colombian conflict
1964 Brazilian coup d'état
Dominican Civil War
Rhodesian Bush War
South African Border War
Transition to the New Order (Indonesia)
Domino theory
ASEAN Declaration
Laotian Civil War
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Argentine Revolution
Korean DMZ Conflict
Greek military junta of 1967–1974
Years of Lead (Italy)
USS Pueblo incident
Six-Day War
War of Attrition
Dhofar Rebellion
Al-Wadiah War
Nigerian Civil War
Protests of 1968
May 68
Cultural Revolution
Prague Spring
1968 Polish political crisis
Communist insurgency in Malaysia
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
17 July Revolution
1969 Libyan coup d'état
Football War
Goulash Communism
Sino-Soviet border conflict
CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion
Corrective Move
1970s
Détente
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
Black September
Alcora Exercise
Corrective Movement (Syria)
Western Sahara conflict
Cambodian Civil War
Vietnam War
Koza riot
Realpolitik
Ping-pong diplomacy
Corrective Revolution (Egypt)
1971 Turkish military memorandum
1971 Sudanese coup d'état
Four Power Agreement on Berlin
Bangladesh Liberation War
1972 Nixon visit to China
North Yemen-South Yemen Border conflict of 1972
Yemenite War of 1972
Communist insurgency in Bangladesh
Eritrean Civil Wars
1973 Uruguayan coup d'état
1973 Afghan coup d'état
1973 Chilean coup d'état
Yom Kippur War
1973 oil crisis
Carnation Revolution
Spanish transition to democracy
Metapolitefsi
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
Second Iraqi–Kurdish War
Turkish invasion of Cyprus
Angolan Civil War
Mozambican Civil War
Oromo conflict
Ogaden War
1978 Somali coup d'état attempt
Western Sahara War
Ethiopian Civil War
Lebanese Civil War
Sino-Albanian split
Cambodian–Vietnamese War
Operation Condor
Dirty War (Argentina)
1976 Argentine coup d'état
Libyan–Egyptian War
German Autumn
Korean Air Lines Flight 902
Nicaraguan Revolution
Uganda–Tanzania War
NDF Rebellion
Chadian–Libyan conflict
Yemenite War of 1979
Grand Mosque seizure
Iranian Revolution
Saur Revolution
Sino-Vietnamese War
New Jewel Movement
1979 Herat uprising
Seven Days to the River Rhine
Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union
1980s
Salvadoran Civil War
Soviet–Afghan War
1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts
Peruvian conflict
Eritrean Civil Wars
1980 Turkish coup d'état
Ugandan Bush War
Gulf of Sidra incident
Casamance conflict
Falklands War
1982 Ethiopian–Somali Border War
Ndogboyosoi War
United States invasion of Grenada
Able Archer 83
Star Wars
Iran–Iraq War
Somali Rebellion
1986 Black Sea incident
South Yemen Civil War
Toyota War
Lord's Resistance Army insurgency
1988 Black Sea bumping incident
Bougainville Civil War
8888 Uprising
Solidarity
Soviet reaction
Contras
Central American crisis
RYAN
Korean Air Lines Flight 007
People Power Revolution
Glasnost
Perestroika
Nagorno-Karabakh War
Afghan Civil War
United States invasion of Panama
1988 Polish strikes
1989 Tiananmen Square protests
Revolutions of 1989
Fall of the Berlin Wall
Fall of the inner German border
Velvet Revolution
Romanian Revolution
Peaceful Revolution
1990s
Mongolian Revolution of 1990
Gulf War
German reunification
Yemeni unification
Fall of communism in Albania
Breakup of Yugoslavia
Dissolution of Czechoslovakia
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
1991 August Coup
Frozen conflicts
Abkhazia
China-Taiwan
Korea
Puerto Rico
Kosovo
Nagorno-Karabakh
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Sino-Indian border dispute
North Borneo dispute
Foreign policy
Truman Doctrine
Containment
Eisenhower Doctrine
Domino theory
Hallstein Doctrine
Kennedy Doctrine
Peaceful coexistence
Ostpolitik
Johnson Doctrine
Brezhnev Doctrine
Nixon Doctrine
Ulbricht Doctrine
Carter Doctrine
Reagan Doctrine
Rollback
Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War
IdeologiesCapitalism
Liberalism
Chicago school
Keynesianism
Libertarianism
Monetarism
Neoclassical economics
Reaganomics
Supply-side economics
Thatcherism
Socialism
Communism
Marxism–Leninism
Castroism
Eurocommunism
Guevarism
Hoxhaism
Juche
Maoism
Trotskyism
Naxalism
Stalinism
Titoism
Other
Imperialism
Anti-imperialism
Nationalism
Ultranationalism
Chauvinism
Ethnic nationalism
Racism
Zionism
Fascism
Neo-Nazism
Islamism
Totalitarianism
Authoritarianism
Autocracy
Liberal democracy
Illiberal democracy
Guided democracy
Social democracy
Third-Worldism
White supremacy
White nationalism
White separatism
Apartheid
Organizations
NATO
SEATO
METO
EEC
Warsaw Pact
Comecon
Non-Aligned Movement
ASEAN
SAARC
CIA
MI6
KGB
Stasi
Safari Club
Propaganda
Active measures
 Amerika
Crusade for Freedom
Izvestia
Pravda
Voice of America
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty
Radio Free Asia
Red Scare
Soviet Life
TASS
Races
Arms race
Nuclear arms race
Space Race
Historians
Gar Alperovitz
Thomas A. Bailey
Michael Beschloss
Archie Brown
Warren H. Carroll
Adrian Cioroianu
John Costello
Michael Cox
Nicholas J. Cull
Willem Drees
Robert D. English
Herbert Feis
Robert Hugh Ferrell
André Fontaine
Anneli Ute Gabanyi
John Lewis Gaddis
Lloyd Gardner
Timothy Garton Ash
Gabriel Gorodetsky
Fred Halliday
Jussi Hanhimäki
John Earl Haynes
Patrick J. Hearden
Tvrtko Jakovina
Tony Judt
Harvey Klehr
Gabriel Kolko
Walter LaFeber
Walter Laqueur
Melvyn Leffler
Geir Lundestad
Mary Elise Sarotte
Vojtech Mastny
Jack F. Matlock Jr.
Thomas J. McCormick
Timothy Naftali
Marius Oprea
David S. Painter
William B. Pickett
Ronald E. Powaski
Yakov M. Rabkin
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
Ellen Schrecker
Giles Scott-Smith
Shen Zhihua
Athan Theoharis
Andrew Thorpe
Vladimir Tismăneanu
Patrick Vaughan
Alex von Tunzelmann
Odd Arne Westad
William Appleman Williams
Jonathan Reed Winkler
Rudolph Winnacker
Ken Young
See also
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
List of Eastern Bloc agents in the United States
Soviet espionage in the United States
Soviet Union–United States relations
USSR–USA summits
Russian espionage in the United States
American espionage in the Soviet Union and Russian Federation
Russia–NATO relations
Brinkmanship
CIA and the Cultural Cold War
Second Cold War
Russian Revolution
Category
Commons
Timeline
List of conflicts
Authority control 
LCCN: sh2015000776
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dekemvriana&amp;oldid=981259985"
		Categories: Greece in World War IIGreek Civil War1944 in Greece1945 in GreeceConflicts in 1944Conflicts in 194520th century in AthensBattles and operations of the Greek Civil WarLand battles and operations of World War II involving the United KingdomMediterranean theatre of World War IIMilitary history of AthensMilitary history of Greece during World War II1944 protests1945 protestsDecember 1944 eventsJanuary 1945 eventsGeorgios PapandreouHidden categories: CS1 Greek-language sources (el)CS1 uses Greek-language script (el)Articles needing additional references from April 2013All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Greek-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2012Articles with unsourced statements from March 2011Articles needing additional references from August 2019Articles with unsourced statements from October 2020Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةБългарскиČeštinaDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoFrançais한국어עבריתქართულიმარგალურიРусскийไทยУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 October 2020, at 07:28 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
