	Aenesidemus
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		1st century BC Greek Pyrrhonist philosopher
This article is about a Greek philosopher. For the book by Gottlob Ernst Schulze, see Aenesidemus (book). For the tyrant of Leontini, see Aenesidemus, tyrant of Leontini.
AenesidemusBorn1st century BCKnossosEraHellenistic philosophyRegionWestern philosophySchoolPyrrhonismMain interestsEpistemology, metaphysics, ethicsNotable ideasThe ten modes of Aenesidemus
Influences
Pyrrho, Timon, Heraclitus
Influenced
Sextus Empiricus, Favorinus, Plutarch
Part of a  series onPyrrhonism
Precursors
Heraclitus
Democritus
Buddha
Anaxarchus
Xenophanes
Philosophy
Acatalepsy
Adiaphora
Aporia
Ataraxia
Astathmēta
Impermanence
Dependent origination
Dogma
Epoché
Agrippa's trilemma
Phantasiai
Problem of induction
Problem of the criterion
Reductio ad absurdum
Regress argument
Relativism
Circular reasoning
Dissent
Ten Modes of Aenesidemus
Five Modes of Agrippa
Pyrrhonists
Pyrrho
Aenesidemus
Agrippa the Skeptic
Arcesilaus
Michel de Montaigne
Sextus Empiricus
Timon of Phlius
Similar philosophies
Academic Skepticism
Madhyamaka Buddhism
Empiric school
Cyrenaicism
Cynicism
Contrary philosophies
Stoicism
Aristotelianism
Epicureanism
 Philosophy portalvte
Aenesidemus (Ancient Greek: Αἰνησίδημος or Αἰνεσίδημος) was a Greek Pyrrhonist philosopher, born in Knossos on the island of Crete. He lived in the 1st century BC, taught in Alexandria and flourished shortly after the life of Cicero. Photius says[1] he was a member of Plato's Academy, but he came to dispute their theories, adopting Pyrrhonism instead. Diogenes Laërtius claims an unbroken lineage of teachers of Pyrrhonism through Aenesidemus, with his teacher being Heraclides and his student being Zeuxippus.[2] However, little is known about several of the names between Timon of Phlius and Aenesidemus, so this lineage is suspect. Whether Aenesidemus re-founded the Pyrrhonist school or merely revitalized it is unknown.
Contents
1 Life
2 Pyrrhonian Discourses
3 The ten modes of Aenesidemus
4 Heraclitean view
5 Pleasure
6 See also
7 Notes
8 References
9 External links
Life[edit]
There is no definite evidence about the life of Aenesidemus, but his most important work, the Pyrrhonian Discourses was known to be dedicated to Lucius Aelius Tubero, a friend of Cicero and member of Plato's Academy whom Photius described as a colleague. Based on this information, scholars have assumed that Aenesidemus himself was also a member of the Academy. Furthermore, it has been assumed that he took part under the leadership of Philo of Larissa and probably adopted Pyrrhonism either in reaction to Antiochus of Ascalon introduction of Stoic and Peripatetic dogma into the Academy or  Philo's acceptance of provisional beliefs. What little we know of Aenesidemus is by way of Photius (in his Myriobiblion),  Sextus Empiricus, and also to a lesser extent by Diogenes Laërtius and Philo of Alexandria.
Pyrrhonian Discourses[edit]
His chief work, known in Ancient Greek as Pyrrhoneioi logoi (Πυρρώνειοι λóγοι) and often rendered into English as the Pyrrhonian Discourses or Pyrrhonian Principles, dealt primarily with man's need to suspend judgment due to our epistemological limitations. It was divided into eight books, but it has not survived.  We have this summary of its contents from Photius (in his Myriobiblion). 
I read Aenesidemus' eight Pyrrhonist Discourses. The overall aim of the book is to establish that there is no firm basis for cognition, either through sense-perception, or indeed through thought. Consequently, he says, neither the Pyrrhonists nor the others know the truth in things; but the philosophers of other persuasions, as well as being ignorant in general, and wearing themselves out uselessly and expending themselves in ceaseless torments, are also ignorant of the very fact that they have cognition of none of the things of which they think that they have gained cognition. But he who philosophizes after the fashion of Pyrrho is happy not only in general but also, and especially, in the wisdom of knowing that he has firm cognition of nothing. And even with regard to what he knows, he has the propriety to assent no more to its affirmation than to its denial. The whole scheme of the book is directed towards the purpose I have mentioned. In writing the discourses Aenesidemus addresses them to Lucius Tubero, one of his colleagues from the Academy, a Roman by birth, with an illustrious ancestry and a distinguished political career. In the first discourse he differentiates between the Pyrrhonists and the Academics in almost precisely the following words. He says that the Academics are doctrinaire: they posit some things with confidence and unambiguously deny others. The Pyrrhonists, on the other hand, are aporetic and free of all doctrine. Not one of them has said either that all things are incognitive, or that they are cognitive, but that they are no more of this kind than of that, or that they are sometimes of this kind, sometimes not, or that for one person they are of this kind, for another person not of this kind, and for another person not even existent at all. Nor do they say that all things in general, or some things, are accessible to us, or not accessible to us, but that they are no more accessible to us than not, or that they are sometimes accessible to us, sometimes not, or that they are accessible to one person but not to another. Nor indeed, do they say there is true or false, convincing or unconvincing, existent or non-existent. But the same thing is, it might be said, no more true than false, convincing than unconvincing, or existent or non-existent; or sometimes the one, sometimes the other; or of such a kind for one person but not for another. For the Pyrrhonist determines absolutely nothing, not even this very claim that nothing is determined. (We put it this way, he says, for lack of a way to express the thought.) But the Academics, he says, especially those from the present-day Academy, are sometimes in agreement with Stoic beliefs, and to tell the truth turn out to be Stoics fighting with Stoics. Moreover, they are doctrinaire about many things. For they introduce virtue and folly, and posit good and bad, truth and falsity, convincing and unconvincing, existent and non-existent. They give firm determinations for many other things too. It is only about the cognitive impression that they express dissent.  Thus the followers of Pyrrho, in determining nothing, remain absolutely above reproach, whereas the Academics, he says, incur a scrutiny similar to that faced by the other philosophers. Above all, the Pyrrhonists, by entertaining doubts about every thesis, maintain consistency and do not conflict with themselves, whereas the Academics are unaware that they are conflicting with themselves. For to make unambiguous assertions and denials, at the same time as stating as a generalization that no things are cognitive, introduces an undeniable conflict: how is it possible to recognize that this is true, this false, yet still entertain perplexity and doubt, and not make a clear choice of the one and avoidance of the other?  For if it is not known that this is good or bad, or that this is true but that false, and this existent but that non-existent, it must certainly be admitted that each of them is incognitive. But if they receive self-evident cognition by means of sense-perception or thought, we must say that each is cognitive. These similar considerations are set out by Aenesidemus of Aegae at the beginning of his discourses, to indicate the difference between the Pyrrhonists and Academics. He goes on in the same discourse, the first, also to report in summary outline the entire way of life of the Pyrrhonists.
The ten modes of Aenesidemus[edit]
Aenesidemus is considered the creator of the ten modes of Aenesidemus (also known as ten tropes of Aenesidemus)—although whether he invented the tropes or just systematized them from prior Pyrrhonist works is unknown. The tropes represent reasons for epoché (suspension of judgment). These are as follows:
Different animals manifest different modes of perception;
Similar differences are seen among individual men;
For the same man, information perceived with the senses is self-contradictory
Furthermore, it varies from time to time with physical changes
In addition, this data differs according to local relations
Objects are known only indirectly through the medium of air, moisture, etc.
These objects are in a condition of perpetual change in colour, temperature, size and motion
All perceptions are relative and interact one upon another
Our impressions become less critical through repetition and custom
All men are brought up with different beliefs, under different laws and social conditions
In other words, Aenesidemus argues that experience varies infinitely under circumstances whose importance to one another cannot be accurately judged by human observers. He therefore rejects any concept of absolute knowledge of reality, since every each person has different perceptions, and they arrange their sense-gathered data in methods peculiar to themselves.[3]
Heraclitean view[edit]
Either in the Pyrrhonian Discourses or some other work that did not survive, Aenesidemus assimilated the theories of Heraclitus, as is discussed in the Outlines of Pyrrhonism of Sextus Empiricus. For admitting that contraries co-exist for the perceiving subject, he was able to assert the co-existence of contrary qualities in the same object.[3]
Below, Burnet discusses Sextus Empiricus' reproduction of Aenesidemus account of the theories of Heraclitus. The embedded quote from Ritter and Preller (1898) Historia Philosophiae Graecae (in italics) is Burnet's translation of Ritter and Preller's Greek. 
"The locus classicus on this is a passage of Sextus Empiricus, which reproduces the account given by Ainesidemos. It is as follows (Ritter and Preller (1898) Historia Philosophiae Graecae section 41):
"The natural philosopher is of opinion that what surrounds us is rational and endowed with consciousness. According to Herakleitos, when we draw in this divine reason by means of respiration, we become rational. In sleep we forget, but at our waking we become conscious once more. For in sleep, when the openings of the senses dose, the mind which is in us is cut off from contact with that which surrounds us, and only our connexion with it by means of respiration is preserved as a sort of root (from which the rest may spring again); and, when it is thus separated, it loses the power of memory that it had before. When we awake again, however, it looks out through the openings of the senses, as if through windows, and coming together with the surrounding mind, it assumes the power of reason. Just, then, as embers, when they are brought near the fire, change and become red-hot, and go out when they are taken away from it again, so does the portion of the surrounding mind which sojourns in our body become irrational when it is cut off, and so does it become of like nature to the whole when contact is established through the greatest number of openings."
In this passage there is clearly a large admixture of later ideas. In particular, the identification of “ that which surrounds us ” with the air cannot be Herakleitean; for Herakleitos knew nothing of air except as a form of water (§ 27). The reference to the pores or openings of the senses is probably foreign to him also; for the theory of pores is due to Alkmaion (§ 96).
Lastly, the distinction between mind and body is far too sharply drawn. On the other hand, the important role assigned to respiration may very well be Herakleitean; for we have met with it already in Anaximenes. And we can hardly doubt that the striking simile of the embers which glow when brought near the fire is genuine (cf. fr. 77). The true doctrine doubtless was, that sleep was produced by the encroachment of moist, dark exhalations from the water in the body, which cause the fire to burn low. In sleep, we lose contact with the fire in the world which is common to all, and retire to a world of our own (fr. 95). In a soul where the fire and water are evenly balanced, the equilibrium is restored in the morning by an equal advance of the bright exhalation."[4]"Sextus quotes “Ainesidemos according to Herakleitos.” Natorp holds (Forschungen, p. 78) that Ainesidemos really did combine Herakleiteanism with Scepticism. Diels (Dox. pp. 210, 211), insists that he only gave an account of the theories of Herakleitos."[5]
Pleasure[edit]
Unlike other Pyrrhonists who reported that following Pyrrho's prescription contained in the Aristocles passage produced ataraxia, Aenesidemus is reported to have claimed that it produces pleasure (perhaps in addition to, ataraxia).[6]
See also[edit]
Agrippa the Sceptic
Arcesilaus
Carneades
Pyrrho
Sextus Empiricus
Notes[edit]
^ A. A. Long,D. N. Sedley, The Hellenistic Philosophers, 1987, p 469.
^ Diogenes Laertius, Lives of Eminent Philosophers "Life of Timon of Phlius" Book IX Chapter 12 Section 116 [1]
^ a b  One or more of the preceding sentences incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Aenesidemus". Encyclopædia Britannica. 1 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 257–258..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit} This cites:
Zeller's History of Greek Philosophy
E. Saisset, Ænésidème, Pascal, Kant
Ritter and Preller, §§ 364-870.
^ Burnet, John (1930). Early Greek Philosophy. 4, 5 &amp; 6 Soho Square, London, W.1: A. &amp; C. Black, Ltd. pp. 152–153.CS1 maint: location (link)
^ Burnet, John (1930). Early Greek Philosophy. 4, 5 &amp; 6 Soho Square, London, W.1, 1930: A. &amp; C. Black, Ltd. p. 152.CS1 maint: location (link)
^ Eusebius Praeparatio Evangelica Chapter 18
References[edit]
Caizzi, Fernanda Decleva (1992), "Aenesidemus and the Academy", The Classical Quarterly, 42 (1): 176–189, doi:10.1017/s0009838800042671
Polito, Roberto. The Sceptical Road: Aenesidemus' Appropriation of Heraclitus, Leiden: Brill, 2004.
Thorsrud, Harold, "Ancient Greek Skepticism", The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, retrieved 23 June 2007
External links[edit]
"Aenesidemus". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
vteSkepticismTypes
Philosophical
Moral
Scientific
Religious
Local
Radical
Skeptical philosophies
Academic Skepticism
Arcesilaus
Lacydes
Carneades
Clitomachus
Philo of Larissa
Ajñana
Buddhism
Cartesian
Charvaka
Cyrenaicism
Madhyamaka
Pyrrhonism
Pyrrho
Timon
Aenesidemus
Agrippa
Sextus Empiricus
Xenophanes
Skeptical arguments
Acatalepsy
Ten Modes of Aenesidemus
Five Modes of Agrippa
Anatta
Impermanence
Münchhausen trilemma
Non-essentialism
Problem of the criterion
Problem of induction
Ship of Theseus
Wax argument
Skeptical hypotheses
Evil genius
Brain in a vat
Dream argument
Omphalos hypothesis
Simulation hypothesis
Responses
Here is one hand
Semantic externalism
Process reliabilism
Epistemic closure
Contextualism
Relativism
Lists
List of books about skepticism
List of scientific skeptics
List of skeptical conferences
List of skeptical magazines
List of skeptical organizations
List of skeptical podcasts
Authority control 
BNF: cb14567132d (data)
GND: 118647156
ISNI: 0000 0004 3244 0764
LCCN: n2004090568
NTA: 072339136
SELIBR: 388026
SUDOC: 117394831
VcBA: 495/49119
VIAF: 215086641
 WorldCat Identities: viaf-215086641
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Aenesidemus&amp;oldid=976109412"
		Categories: PyrrhonismAncient Cretan philosophersAncient KnossiansAncient Skeptic philosophersEpistemologists1st-century BC Greek people1st-century BC writersAncient Greek epistemologistsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceWikipedia articles incorporating text from the 1911 Encyclopædia BritannicaCS1 maint: locationArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles with hCardsArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textArticles with Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy linksWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiersYear of birth unknownYear of death unknown
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		AfrikaansالعربيةAzərbaycancaБеларускаяCatalàČeštinaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어ÍslenskaItalianoעבריתКыргызчаLatinaMagyarNederlandsNedersaksies日本語PolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenčinaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeУкраїнська中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 September 2020, at 07:22 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
