	Wikipedia:Wikipedia Signpost/2014-01-08/Featured content
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		&lt; Wikipedia:Wikipedia Signpost‎ | 2014-01-08
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
← Back to ContentsView Latest Issue8 January 2014
 Featured content
A portal to the wonderful world of technology
Contribute  —  
Share this  
 E-mail
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Google+
 LinkedIn
 Reddit
 StumbleUpon
 Delicious
 Digg
By Brambleberry of RiverClan
  Aw, nuts! The red squirrel is the subject of this featured picture.
This Signpost featured report covers content promoted from 22 December 2013 to 4 January 2014.
Featured articles
  Kim Guadagno, incumbent Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey.  Henry III of England travels to Brittany in 1230
Twelve featured articles were promoted over the last two weeks.  
Ontario Highway 416 (nom) by Floydian. King's Highway 416, commonly referred to as Highway 416 and as the Veterans Memorial Highway, is a 400-series highway in the Canadian province of Ontario that connects the Trans-Canada Highway (Highway 417) in Ottawa with Highway 401 between Brockville and Cornwall.
Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey (nom) by ColonelHenry. The Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey is an elected constitutional officer in the executive branch of the state government of New Jersey in the United States. Republican Kim Guadagno is the first to serve in the post in its modern form. Guadagno, previously the sheriff in Monmouth County, was chosen by Governor Chris Christie to be his running mate on the Republican party ticket in the 2009 election.
Jean-Joseph Rabearivelo (nom) by Lemurbaby. Jean-Joseph Rabearivelo (4 March 1901 or 1903 – 22 June 1937), born Joseph-Casimir Rabearivelo, is widely considered to be Africa's first modern poet and the greatest literary artist of Madagascar. Part of the first generation raised under French colonization, Rabearivelo grew up impoverished and failed to complete secondary education.
Dredd (nom) by Darkwarriorblake. Dredd is a 2012 science fiction action film directed by Pete Travis and written and produced by Alex Garland. It is based on the 2000 AD comic strip Judge Dredd and its eponymous character created by John Wagner and Carlos Ezquerra. Karl Urban stars as Judge Dredd, a law enforcer given the power of judge, jury and executioner in a vast, dystopian metropolis called Mega-City One that lies in a post-apocalyptic wasteland.
Interstate 296 (nom) by Imzadi1979. Interstate 296 (I-296) is a part of the Interstate Highway System in the US state of Michigan. It is a state trunkline highway that runs for 3.43 miles (5.52 km) entirely within the Grand Rapids area. Its termini are I-96 on the north side of Grand Rapids in Walker and I-196 near downtown Grand Rapids.
Japanese aircraft carrier Ryūjō (nom) by Sturmvogel 66. Ryūjō (Japanese: 龍驤 "prancing dragon") was a light aircraft carrier built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during the early 1930s. Small and lightly built in an attempt to exploit a loophole in the Washington Naval Treaty of 1922, she proved to be top-heavy and only marginally stable and was back in the shipyard for modifications to address those issues within a year of completion.
The Carpet from Bagdad (nom) by Squeamish Ossifrage. The Carpet from Bagdad is a 1915 American silent adventure film directed by Colin Campbell and based on Harold MacGrath's 1911 eponymous novel. In the story, Horace Wadsworth (played by Guy Oliver), one of a gang of criminals also planning a bank robbery in New York, steals the titular prayer rug from its Baghdad mosque. He sells the carpet to antique dealer George Jones (Wheeler Oakman) to fund the robbery scheme. But the theft places both men and Fortune Chedsoye (Kathlyn Williams), the innocent daughter of another conspirator, in danger from the carpet's guardian.
McDonnell Douglas AV-8B Harrier II (nom) by Sp33dyphil. The McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing) AV-8B Harrier II is a single-engine ground-attack aircraft that constitutes the second generation of the Harrier Jump Jet family. Capable of vertical or short takeoff and landing (V/STOL), the aircraft was designed in the late 1970s as an Anglo-American development of the British Hawker Siddeley Harrier, the first operational V/STOL aircraft.
Hattie Jacques (nom) by SchroCat and Cassianto. Hattie Jacques (born Josephine Edwina Jaques; 7 February 1922 – 6 October 1980) was an English comedy actress of stage, radio and screen. She is best known as a regular of the Carry On films, where she typically played strict, no-nonsense characters, but was also a prolific television and radio performer.
Henry III of England (nom) by Hchc2009. Henry III (1 October 1207 – 16 November 1272), also known as Henry of Winchester, was King of England, Lord of Ireland and Duke of Aquitaine from 1216 until his death. The son of King John and Isabella of Angoulême, Henry assumed the throne when he was only nine in the middle of the First Barons' War.
Two-cent piece (United States coin) (nom) by Wehwalt. The two-cent piece was produced by the Mint of the United States for circulation from 1864 to 1872 and for collectors in 1873. Designed by James B. Longacre, there were decreasing mintages each year, as other minor coins such as the nickel proved more popular. It was abolished by the Mint Act of 1873.
Waveguide filter (nom) by Spinningspark. A waveguide filter is an electronic filter that is constructed with waveguide technology. Waveguides are hollow metal tubes inside which an electromagnetic wave may be transmitted. Filters are devices used to allow signals at some frequencies to pass (the passband), while others are rejected (the stopband). Filters are a basic component of electronic engineering designs and have numerous applications.
Featured lists
  Jason Newsted in 2013.
Three featured lists were promoted over the last two weeks.
List of songs recorded by Jason Newsted (nom) by Grapple X. Throughout his career, musician Jason Newsted has made over 250 recordings, encompassing studio albums, live material and work for film soundtracks, cover albums and charity releases. Although he began his career as a member of the thrash metal group Flotsam and Jetsam, Newsted's work has primarily been with the band Metallica, with whom he played bass guitar between 1987 and 2001.
List of international cricket centuries by David Boon (nom) by Sahara4u. David Boon is a former international cricketer who represented Australia between 1984 and 1996. A right-handed batsman who primarily played as an opener, Boon took part in 107 Test matches and 181 One Day Internationals (ODIs) for his country and scored centuries (100 or more runs in a single innings) on twenty-one and five occasions respectively.
List of international cricket centuries by Herschelle Gibbs (nom) by Vensatry. Herschelle Gibbs is a former South African cricketer who represented his country between 1996 and 2010. He made centuries (100 or more runs in a single innings) on 14 and 21 occasions in Test and One Day International (ODI) matches respectively. With over 14,000 runs, Gibbs is South Africa's third-most prolific run-scorer in international cricket.
Featured pictures
  Roger van der Weyden's Portrait of a Lady, c. 1460, was the first featured content of 2014
Seven featured pictures were promoted over the past two weeks.
Red squirrel (nom, related article) by Peter Trimming and nominated by Bellus Delphina. The red squirrel or Eurasian red squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris) is a species of tree squirrel in the genus Sciurus common throughout Eurasia. The red squirrel is an arboreal, omnivorous rodent. In Great Britain, Italy and Ireland, numbers have decreased drastically in recent years, a decline associated with the introduction of the eastern grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) from North America, although habitat loss is also a factor.
Red-legged Partridge (nom, related article) by Pierre Dalous. and nominated by Tomer T. The Red-legged Partridge (Alectoris rufa) is a gamebird in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds. It is sometimes known as French Partridge, to distinguish it from the Grey or English Partridge. It is a rotund bird, with a light brown back, grey breast and buff belly. The face is white with a black gorget. It has rufous-streaked flanks and red legs.
Karen L. Nyberg (nom, related article) by NASA and nominated by Brandmeister. Karen LuJean Nyberg (born 7 October 1969) is an American mechanical engineer and NASA astronaut. Nyberg became the 50th woman in space on her first mission in 2008. Nyberg started her space career in 1991 and spent a total of 180 days in space in 2008 and 2013 (as a Mission Specialist on STS-124 and a Flight Engineer on Soyuz TMA-09M).
Portrait of a Lady (nom, related article) by Rogier van der Weyden and nominated by Armbrust. Portrait of a Lady (or Portrait of a Woman) is a small oil-on-oak panel painting executed around 1460 by the Netherlandish painter Rogier van der Weyden. The composition is built from the geometric shapes that form the lines of the woman's veil, neckline, face, and arms, and by the fall of the light that illuminates her face and headdress. The vivid contrasts of darkness and light enhance the almost unnatural beauty and Gothic elegance of the model.
Victor Hugo (nom, related article) by Étienne Carjat and nominated by Yerevantsi. Victor Marie Hugo (26 February 1802 – 22 May 1885) was a French poet, novelist, and dramatist of the Romantic movement. He is considered one of the greatest and best known French writers. In France, Hugo's literary fame comes first from his poetry but also rests upon his novels and his dramatic achievements.
Black-sided hawkfish (nom, related article) by Nhobgood and nominated by Tomer T. The black-sided hawkfish, Paracirrhites forsteri, is a species of hawkfish from the Indo-Pacific. It is occasionally found in the aquarium trade and is also of minor importance to local commercial fisheries. It grows to a total length of 22 cm (8.7 in).
Ceiling of the Saint-Séverin, Paris (nom, related article) by Romanceor and nominated by Nyttend. A Vault is an architectural term for an arched form used to provide a space with a ceiling or roof. The parts of a vault exert lateral thrust that require a counter resistance. When vaults are built underground, the ground gives all the resistance required. However, when the vault is built above ground, various replacements are employed to supply the needed resistance.
Featured portals
One featured portal was promoted over the last two weeks.
Technology (nom) by Cirt and Sven Manguard. Technology is the making, modification, usage, and knowledge of tools, machines, techniques, crafts, systems, and methods of organization, in order to solve a problem, improve a pre-existing solution to a problem, achieve a goal, handle an applied input/output relation or perform a specific function. It can also refer to the collection of such tools, including machinery, modifications, arrangements and procedures.
&lt;br\&gt;
  A juvenile black-sided hawkfish and the subject of a featured picture.
Disclaimer: Summaries on this page borrow shamelessly from the articles cited; see the article histories for attribution.
← Previous "Featured content"
In this issue8 January 2014News and notes
Public Domain Day
Op-ed
WikiProject report
Traffic report
Featured content
Technology report
+ Add a commentDiscuss this story
These comments are automatically transcluded from this article's talk page. To follow comments, add the page to your watchlist. If your comment has not appeared here, you can try purging the cache.
You forgot to mention the FA promotion of Jimi Hendrix. GabeMc (talk|contribs)  20:08, 11 January 2014 (UTC)
@GabeMc: That was promoted on 5 January 2014. Armbrust The Homunculus 12:55, 12 January 2014 (UTC)
Oh, sorry. Is it to be mentioned in the next edition? GabeMc (talk|contribs)  16:53, 12 January 2014 (UTC)
Yes. Armbrust The Homunculus 17:04, 12 January 2014 (UTC)
There wasn't a featured content section this week.— Vchimpanzee ·  talk · contributions · 21:12, 24 January 2014 (UTC)
The Signpost is written by editors like you — join in!
Home
About
Archives
Newsroom
Subscribe
Suggestions
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Wikipedia_Signpost/2014-01-08/Featured_content&amp;oldid=954746157"
		Categories: Wikipedia Signpost archives 2014-01Wikipedia Signpost Featured content archives 2014
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		Project pageTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Add links
		 This page was last edited on 4 May 2020, at 03:02 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
