	Taunting
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		A taunt is a battle cry, sarcastic remark, gesture, or insult intended to demoralize the recipient, or to anger them and encourage reactionary behaviors without thinking.[1] Taunting can exist as a form of social competition to gain control of the target's cultural capital (i.e. status).[citation needed] In sociological theory, the control of the three social capitals is used to produce an advantage in the social hierarchy as to enforce one's own position in relation to others. Taunting is committed by either directly, or indirectly encouraging others to taunt the target. The target may give a response in kind to maintain status, as in fighting words and trash-talk.
Taunts are also a genre of folklore.[clarification needed]
Contents
1 Verbal taunts
2 Gestures
2.1 Akanbe
2.2 Clenched fist
2.3 Crotch-grab
2.4 Cutthroat
2.5 Dickhead gesture
2.6 Finger
2.7 Loser
2.8 Shocker
2.9 Tongue
2.10 Turkey face
2.11 V sign
2.12 Wanker
3 In popular culture
3.1 Video games
4 See also
5 References
Verbal taunts[edit]
The act of taunting can be learned by observation and improvisation. It usually follows linear thought, correlating or building in some manner to the target of taunting. Things such as the victim's appearance, intelligence, mannerisms, education, background, past offences, etc. can otherwise be insulted. When used in this manner, the effectiveness of a taunt at provoking a response varies depending on how the specific insult relates to its victim (or their sense of self), to what level of offence they regard the taunt, and how well the victim can control their emotions when responding.
In the Eastern US and modern Britain the chant "Nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah", sung to the tune of "Bye, baby Bunting" is insult among children.[2] In the American South this is often used as "Nanny nanny boo-boo" and repeated with words such as "You ca-an't catch me". In Hebrew, the taunt is "Na na, banana" or "Na-na-na banana" (means the same as in English). In French, the taunt uses syllables often rendered "Nananananère," and Swedish-speaking children use the phrase "Du kan inte ta mig" ("You cannot catch me").[citation needed] In Croatia, children sing in that tune: "Ulovi me, ulovi me, kupit ću ti novine. Novine su skupe, poljubi me u dupe.", which means: "Catch me, catch me, [if you do that] I'll buy you a newspaper. Newspapers are pricey, kiss my tushie."
Gestures[edit]
Main article: Gesture
Certain movements of one's body are, in many cultures, interpreted as a taunt. These can be expressed through the eyes, hands, fingers, head and other areas of the body.
Akanbe[edit]
Main article: Akanbe
A gesture in Japanese culture, made by pulling a lower eyelid down to expose the red underneath.
Clenched fist[edit]
A raised, clenched fist is used as a gesture of defiance by a number of groups. It is usually considered to be hostile, yet without any sexual, scatological, or notionally offensive connotations.
Crotch-grab[edit]
The crotch-grab is done almost exclusively by males. It is, as the name suggests, a grabbing (or one-handed cupping and lifting) of the penis and testicles -   usually through clothing. In Italy the sign is by no means purely a taunt, being also an apotropaic gesture of considerable antiquity employed, since the days of Ancient Rome, to ward off the evil eye or bad luck and also to attract good luck. It is, in this context, an invocation of the benign powers of fertility embodied in the male genitalia and, as such, lies at the root of the magical intent expressed symbolically in the fascinum and probably also the cornicello. Despite recent prudish rulings by the Italian legal system, the (public) crotch-grab is still resorted to by more traditionally-minded Italian men as a means of deflecting the ill-luck threatened by objects or people related to death and burial and (more esoterically) the unlucky number 17 (said to be unlucky because it a) resembles a man hanging from a gibbet and b) because when written XVII in Roman numerals is an anagram of 'vixi' - 'I lived', a verb form considered unlucky because of its frequent occurrence in ancient Roman funerary inscriptions).[3][4]
Cutthroat[edit]
The cutthroat gesture is performed by drawing the hand, or a finger or two, across the throat. It represents slitting the throat with a knife, and means that the gesturer or someone else is metaphorically being killed. It is rarely if ever used literally to refer to death, though it is occasionally used as a theatrical threat ("I'm going to kill you"). The gesture earned a great deal of national notoriety in the NFL during the 1999 season in which several players did the cutthroat gesture.
Dickhead gesture[edit]
The dickhead gesture is made by holding a hand to one's forehead, the thumb and fingers usually forming a "C" shape, and then moving the hand forward and backward in an arc. The image suggested is a large penis growing out of the forehead.
A more insulting form is where the thumb and finger are brought closer together so the gap between them is smaller and more elongated with the hand moved in the same manner. The image suggests a small penis growing out of the forehead.
Finger[edit]
Main article: Finger (gesture)
The finger gesture is a gesture consisting of a fist with the middle finger extended. It is universally understood as "fuck you" due to its resemblance to the penis. It is certainly thousands of years old, being referred to in Ancient Roman literature as the digitus infamis or digitus impudicus. Performing this gesture is also called "flipping the bird" in countries where "the finger" is used. In other regions, "flipping the bird" refers to the raising of the middle and index finger with the back of the hand directed at the recipient. It can also mean "Victor" in some countries, which is not to be mistaken for the "Peace" gesture. The "Peace" gesture is done with the palm facing the recipient of the gesture. In Britain, this is also the case - however, if the palm faces inwards (towards the person doing the "peace" sign), it is an offensive gesture in Britain, though not considered quite as rude as to "the finger" (but still very rude and offensive).
Loser[edit]
Main article: Loser (hand gesture)
The "loser" gesture used in some countries is performed by raising the index finger and thumb of one's right hand perpendicular to each other and then placing them on one's forehead with index finger pointing upward. So placed, the fingers form the letter "L" from the perspective of a viewer and signify the name-calling insult "loser" directed toward the person being spoken to or spoken about.
Shocker[edit]
Main article: Shocker (hand gesture)
Done by holding up the hand with the index, middle and pinky finger, implying the act of putting two fingers in a woman's vagina and one in her anus.
Tongue[edit]
Often sticking one's tongue out at another is seen as mocking the other. A variation of this is also known as blowing a raspberry. It can also be wagged in a manner suggesting cunnilingus which is usually seen as highly vulgar.
Turkey face[edit]
The turkey face gesture is when you take your hand and put your thumb on your nose, wriggle your head back and forth and do the same thing with the hand. Cocking a snook is an old British taunting gesture in which the thumb of one hand is on the nose and the extended fingers are wiggled.
V sign[edit]
Main article: V sign
The insulting version of the gesture (with the palm inwards) is often compared to the offensive gesture known as "the finger". The "two-fingered salute", as it is also known, is commonly performed by flicking the V upwards from wrist or elbow. The V sign, when the palm is facing toward the person giving the sign, has long been an insulting gesture in England,[5] and later in the rest of the United Kingdom; its use is largely restricted to the UK, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand.[6] It is frequently used to signify defiance (especially to authority), contempt or derision.[7]
Wanker[edit]
Main article: Wanker
  The Wanker gesture
The wanker gesture is made with a loose fist (with all fingers forming a cylindrical shape), and shaken up and down (or sometimes, back and forth) at the wrist, suggesting masturbation.
A picture of the young Tony Blair, later the British Prime Minister (1997–2007), using the wanker gesture became widely available (although copyrighted) in 2007.
In popular culture[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (July 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In the 1975 Monty Python film Monty Python and the Holy Grail, the French Knight taunts King Arthur and his companions with a series of increasingly ludicrous insults, culminating in "Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries".
Versions of the Endemol quiz show 1 vs. 100 based on the United States version (Australia, and to an extent, France) are known for the contestants and mob taunting each other.
Similar game shows, such as Weakest Link, are built on taunting a defeated player.
Video games[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (July 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Some video games feature the ability to taunt an opponent. In the context of role-playing games, a "taunt" command is often used by the tank to draw the AI opponents' attention to the player's character, saving other more fragile characters from its attacks so that they can perform specialized roles. In a first-person shooter context or 1-on-1 games, a "taunt" command is essentially a virtual incarnation of a verbal taunt, and may include either purpose-programmed sounds and gestures or a symbolic ritual insult that players have adopted to show dominance.[8]  In the context of wrestling or fighting games, a taunt may serve the purpose of building energy or stamina.
In games not featuring a dedicated "taunt" command, players have devised other ways, using the controls of the game, to taunt or harass opponents of other skill levels. In a racing game, for example, a player far in the lead might come to a stop before the finish line to watch their competitors begin to catch up, only to accelerate again and take the checkered flag when the opponents draw near. Multiplayer FPS games have given rise to the practice of corpse humping or tea bagging, which involves the "crouch" command present in a typical FPS's control scheme. In FPS games which allow hand-to-hand attacks, another common way of taunting opponents is to kill an opponent while one is not armed with a gun, through the use of some sort of melee attack such as a punch or knifing. Quake III Arena makes this form of "taunting" explicit by having the announcer loudly call out "Humiliation!" whenever a player is killed by another player's gauntlet.
In the online PC game sensation World of Warcraft, the classes of Warrior and Druid have the ability named "Taunt" and "Growl" respectively and used to focus the attack of an enemy non-player character (NPC) onto the Warrior or Druid who have used this ability. These classes also have an ability which focuses the attacks of all creatures in an area, commonly referred to as Area of Effect taunt (AOE). The Warrior ability is called "Challenging shout" and the Druid ability is called "Challenging roar". The Paladin and Death Knight classes possess taunts as well. Taunting isn't limited to game skills — it exists also as an emote by typing /taunt in the game's chat feature. This variant of taunting has also been featured in turn-based RPGs, such as Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, in which tank characters can taunt to force all enemies to attack them, while having the health and/or defense to withstand all such attacks so that allies can avoid every attack except area of effect attacks for a limited number of turns.
In the Super Smash Bros. series, characters have a brief taunt that can be performed by pressing a button. Luigi's is the only taunt that damages the foe, except in Super Smash Bros Brawl and Super Smash Bros Ultimate, where Solid Snake also possesses a damaging taunt. Kirby's taunt removes his current Copy Ability. Since Super Smash Bros. Brawl, characters have had 3 different taunts each. If a Down Taunt is executed very quickly, Star Fox characters, Pit, and Solid Snake can contact allies on their home stages (known as a Smash Taunt), while (in Brawl), Samus Aran can remove her power suit if the Up and Down taunts are repeated very quickly.
In the online game Team Fortress 2, each character possesses a unique taunt depending on the weapon he is holding. An example of this is when the Demoman lifts his crotch armor to reveal a piece of paper with a smiley-face on it, shouting "Ka-BOOM!". Some taunts can kill opponents, and two can restore health. There are also special taunts, including some that require a partner to execute, that can be obtained as items.
In the Saints Row games, players can design their own character and choose from numerous taunts in order to make their enemies or pedestrians feel bad, thus engaging in a fist fight. This feature is also available in the second game, now that the character has the ability to speak in which they can trash-talk their pedestrians and enemy gangs nearby. Performing taunts will earn the player respect.
In MotorStorm game, drivers can perform taunts to other drivers in order to humiliate them. These can be performed by any vehicle the player derives, but so do other rivals. In MotorStorm: Pacific Rift, the use of taunt has been expanded upon and these are done by performing the infamous "the finger" next to another driver. Other taunts can be performed. However, doing this can make the rival attack the player, thus causing the player to crash.
In some Pokémon games, there is a Dark-type move called Taunt. Once it has been used, it only allows the user's opponent to use moves that can inflict damage instead of using moves that affect stats, status, weather, etc.
In The Secret of Monkey Island, the main character learns taunts and retorts in a process called insult sword fighting. The learned retorts are used to counter a second set of taunts later. The sequels feature several similar insult games.
In Heroes of Newerth, users who pre-purchased before the open beta began can use the ability "Taunt" to possibly score a "smackdown" announcement. It happens when the taunting player lands the killing blow on the taunted target. However, if the taunted target kills the taunter, a "HUMILIATION" announcement is displayed.
In Mirror's Edge, the main character can pull the V sign if the player executes a certain input combination on their controller.
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online, the protagonists can pull the finger to the pedestrians when driving a vehicle while unarmed.
In the Dragon Ball fighting game Dragon Ball: Xenoverse, "Taunt" is a Super Skill used to force enemies to lock-on to the user turning the opponent's attention to the user. When performed, the user places their hands on the sides of their head and make faces while dancing from side-to-side.
In Watch Dogs 2, the player can interact other NPCs as well insult them and trigger anger response to him.
In Red Dead Redemption 2, Arthur Morgan can antagonize NPC, enemies, and even story characters but doesn't show offensive gestures.
See also[edit]
Insult
Jibe
Sarcasm
Social psychology
Teasing
The dozens
Trash-talk
Slap in the face
References[edit]
^ Keltner, Dacher; Capps, Lisa; Kring, Ann M.; Young, Randall C.; Heerey, Erin A. (March 2001). "Just teasing: A conceptual analysis and empirical review". Psychological Bulletin. 127 (2): 229–248. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.127.2.229. PMID 11316012..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ D. Albright, Untwisting the serpent: modernism in music, literature, and other arts, . Daniel . University of Chicago Press, 2000. p. 94.
^ Lapidos, Juliet (4 March 2008). "Can't Touch This" – via Slate.
^ Moore, Malcolm (29 February 2008). "Italian court outlaws touching of genitals" – via www.telegraph.co.uk.
^ Staff Henry V Archived 2008-06-07 at the Wayback Machine, British Shakespeare Company, accessed 23 April 2008.
^ V sign as an insult:
UK: Staff. No ban for speeding V-sign biker BBC  14 March 2008
UK: Staff. Two fingers Prescott BBC, 22 May 2001
IE: Staff. Shambolic Irish give two fingers to the past Irish Independent
AU: Karl S. Kruszelnicki. Arrow Up Yours &amp; Plague 1 www.abc.net.au. Accessed 23 April 2008
NZ:Glyn Harper Just the Answer Alumni Magazine [Massey University] November 2002.
^ Defiance, contempt or derision:
Staff, V-sign, encyclopedia.com cites The Oxford Pocket Dictionary of Current English 2008 "Brit. a similar sign made with the first two fingers pointing up and the back of the hand facing outward, used as a gesture of abuse or contempt." Accessed 9 May 2008.
Staff. Hooligan grandson of legend, Daily Mirror, 20 December 2007
Staff. V-sign led to assault on school bus teens The Press (York), 1 March 2008
^ Bow, Nigger Archived 2008-11-06 at the Wayback Machine - an essay on gaming culture
vteAbuseTypes
Anti-social behaviour
Bullying
Child abuse
neglect
sexual
military
Cruelty to animals
Disability abuse
Domestic abuse
Elder abuse
Elder financial abuse
Gaslighting
Harassment
Humiliation
Incivility
Institutional abuse
Intimidation
Neglect
Persecution
Professional abuse
Proxy abuse
Psychological abuse
Physical abuse
Police brutality
Religious abuse
Sexual abuse
Stalking
Structural abuse
Verbal abuse
more...
Related topics
Abuse of power
Abusive power and control
Child grooming
Complex post-traumatic stress disorder
Dehumanization
Denial
Destabilisation
Exaggeration
Isolation
Just-world hypothesis
Lying
Manipulation
Minimisation
Narcissism
Psychological projection
Psychological trauma
Psychopathy
Rationalization
Traumatic bonding
Victim blaming
Victim playing
Victimisation
vteBullyingTypes
Abusive supervision
Cyberbullying
Disability bullying
Doxing
Gay bashing
Hazing
Military bullying
Mobbing
Parental bullying of children
Passive aggression
Peer victimization
Prison bullying
Rankism
Relational aggression
School bullying
Higher education
Sexual bullying
Workplace bullying (Academia
Information technology
Legal aspects
Legal profession
Medicine
Nursing
Teaching
Toxic leader)
Elements
Betrayal
Blacklisting
Bullying and emotional intelligence
Character assassination
Control
Coercion
Climate of fear
Defamation
Destabilisation
Discrediting
Embarrassment
False accusation
Gaslighting
Gossip
Harassment
Humiliation
Incivility
Innuendo
Insult
Intimidation
Isolation
Kiss up kick down
Mind games
Moving the goalposts
Nagging
Name calling
Personal attacks
Psychological abuse
Physical abuse
Rudeness
Sarcasm
Setting up to fail
Silent treatment
Smear campaign
Social exclusion
Social undermining
Taunting
Teasing
Whispering campaign
Workplace incivility
Verbal abuse
Yelling
Organizations
Act Against Bullying
Ditch the Label
Bullying UK
It Gets Better Project
Kidscape
GRIN Campaign
Jer's Vision
ExpertsAcademics
Anna Costanza Baldry
Wendy Craig
Dorothy Espelage
David P. Farrington
Shelley Hymel
Heinz Leymann
Gary Namie
James O'Higgins Norman
Dan Olweus
Debra Pepler
Christina Salmivalli
Kenneth Westhues
Activists
Andrea Adams
Louise Burfitt-Dons
Tim Field
SuEllen Fried
Liam Hackett
Lizzie Velásquez
Actions
Anti-Bullying Day
Anti-Bullying Week
International STAND UP to Bullying Day
Anti-bullying legislation
International Day of Pink
Notable suicides(List)
William Arthur Gibbs (1877)
Kelly Yeomans (1997)
Hamed Nastoh (2000)
Dawn-Marie Wesley (2000)
Nicola Ann Raphael (2001)
Ryan Halligan (2003)
Megan Meier (2006)
Sladjana Vidovic (2008)
Phoebe Prince (2010)
Tyler Clementi (2010)
Jamey Rodemeyer (2011)
Jamie Hubley (2011)
Kenneth Weishuhn (2012)
Audrie Pott (2012)
Amanda Todd (2012)
Jadin Bell (2013)
Rehtaeh Parsons (2013)
Rebecca Ann Sedwick (2013)
Leelah Alcorn (2014)
Conrad Roy (2014)
Ash Haffner (2015)
Tyrone Unsworth (2016)
Murder–suicides(incidents)
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold (Columbine, 1999)
Jeff Weise (Red Lake, 2005)
Seung-Hui Cho (Virginia Tech, 2007)
Pekka-Eric Auvinen (Jokela High School, 2007)
Elliot Rodger (Isla Vista, 2014)
Related topics
Control freak
Dehumanization
Depression
Emotional blackmail
Just-world hypothesis
Machiavellianism in the workplace
Narcissism in the workplace
Personal boundaries
Personality disorders
PTSD (C-PTSD)
Psychological manipulation
Psychological projection
Psychological trauma
Psychopathy in the workplace
Scapegoating
Self-esteem
Social dominance orientation
Suicide among LGBT youth
Sycophancy
Victim blaming
Victim playing
Victimisation
Whistleblowing
vteGesturesFriendly gestures
Air kiss
Applause
Cheek kiss
Dap
Elbow bump
Eskimo kiss
Finger heart
Fist bump
Forehead kiss
Hand heart
Handshake
Hand wave
Hat tip
High five
Hongi
ILY sign
Kiss
Liberian snap handshake
Namaste
OK
Pinky swear
Pound hug
Shaka
Thumb signal
Gestures of respect
Adab
Añjali Mudrā
Bow
Curtsy
Gadaw
Genuflection
Hand-kiss
Kowtow
Kuji-in
Mano
Mudra
Namaste
Pranāma
Prostration
Sampeah
Sembah
Schwurhand
Wai
Zolgokh
Ojigi
Salutes
Bellamy salute
Nazi salute
Raised fist
Roman salute
Scout sign and salute
Three-finger salute
Two-finger salute
Vulcan salute
Zogist salute
Celebratory gestures
Applause
Crossed hands
Fist pump
High five
Low five
Victory clasp
V sign
Finger-counting
Finger binary
Chinese number gestures
Chisanbop
Obscene gestures
Anasyrma
Bras d'honneur
Cornuto
Fig sign
Finger
Mooning
Mountza
Nazi salute
Reversed V sign
Shocker
Thumb/index-finger ring
Wanker
Taunts
Akanbe
Finger
Loser
Talk to the hand
Head motions
Head shake
Head bobble
Nod
Other gestures
Air quotes
Allergic salute
Aussie salute
Awkward turtle
Che vuoi
Crossed fingers
Facepalm
Eyelid pull
Finger gun
Gang signal
Hand-in-waistcoat
Hand rubbing
Jazz hands
Laban sign
Merkel-Raute
Pointing
Pollice verso
Shrug
Sign of the cross
Sign of the horns
Related
List of gestures
Articulatory gestures
Hand signals
Manual communication
Mudras
Nonverbal communication
Sign language
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Taunting&amp;oldid=968646414"
		Categories: Human behaviorAbuseHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2009Wikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2019Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011Articles needing additional references from July 2019All articles needing additional references
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		ಕನ್ನಡ
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 20 July 2020, at 17:07 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
