	Mount Vernon Ladies' Association
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association is a non-profit organization that preserves and maintains the Mount Vernon estate originally owned by George Washington and family.[1]  It was founded in 1853 by Ann Pamela Cunningham of Rosemont Plantation, South Carolina.
Contents
1 History
2 Awards
3 References
4 Sources
History[edit]
After the deaths of George Washington (in 1799) and his widow Martha (in 1802), Mount Vernon remained in the family for three generations. John Augustine Washington III, a great-great-nephew of George Washington, eventually inherited the property, but he could not afford to maintain it.[2] By the 1850s the home was beginning to crumble. However, John Washington would not sell to commercial developers and insisted that the new owner preserve Mount Vernon as an historic site.
He offered to sell the estate to either the Federal government or the Commonwealth of Virginia, but the legislatures declined, saying it would not be proper to spend taxpayers' money to acquire private property.
In 1853, South Carolina planter and socialite Louise Dalton Bird Cunningham was riding a ferry down the Potomac River one night. She awoke when the ferry captain signaled the horn as they passed Mount Vernon. She saw that Washington's home was in poor condition. She wrote her daughter, Ann Pamela Cunningham, saying, "If the men of America have seen fit to allow the home of its most respected hero to go to ruin, why can't the women of America band together to save it?"
Inspired by her mother's words, the younger Cunningham decided to initiate a project to raise money to save the plantation. She wrote an open letter to the editor of the South Carolina newspaper, Charleston Mercury, titled "To the Ladies of the South." It appealed to American women to donate funds to rescue Mount Vernon.
She also founded the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association and invited influential women from each state (there were 30 at that time) to serve as its original Vice-Regents. It was the first nationwide women's organization in America and the first private preservation organization.[3]
Serving as its first Regent, Cunningham began a nationwide fundraising effort through the Association to save the home of the first president. Initially they planned to raise the money and transfer it to Virginia to buy the property. It would delegate care to the Association. That arrangement proved unworkable. In March 1858, Virginia's House of Delegates defeated a bill to buy Mount Vernon.
John Washington agreed to sell directly to the Association. The contract was signed in Richmond on April 6, 1858; the gold pen used by Cunningham is held by the Association. He agreed to sell the Mansion, outbuildings, and 200 surrounding acres to the Association for $200,000. He took an immediate down payment of $18,000 and the balance was to be paid in four installments, payable on February 22 (Washington's birthday) each of the next four years.[4][5]
Edward Everett and William Lowndes Yancey were among supporters who conducted speaking tours about Washington/Mount Vernon to raise money to complete the purchase.[6] The Association raised the capital in about eighteen months, announcing it had met its goal in mid-December 1859. The Association took formal possession on Washington's birthday, and John A. Washington and his family moved out of the Mansion on February 22, 1860.[7]
To demonstrate their nationwide appeal at a time of high sectional tensions, the Association renamed the group as  The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of the Union. Ann Pamela Cunningham's vision became the Association's mission statement: 
Ladies, the home of Washington is in your charge – see to it that you keep it the home of Washington. Let no irreverent hand change it; no vandal hands desecrate it with the fingers of progress. Those who go to the home in which he lived and died wish to see in what he lived and died. Let one spot in this grand country of ours be saved from change. Upon you rests this duty.
The Association maintains a headquarters on the Mount Vernon property. It has a Regent, or chairman, and 30 trustees, or Vice Regents, who represent their home states. The non-profit Association is fully private, relying on admission fees, revenues from food and gift sales, and donations from foundations, businesses, and individuals.[8]
When the Civil War ended in 1865, Vice Regents agreed to take responsibility for the preservation and restoration of individual rooms. Detailed inventories taken in 1799 following George Washington's death were used in determining what furnishings were original to Mount Vernon. Decades of research as well as gifts, loans, and purchases were conducted to get the original furnishings returned to Mt. Vernon.
Congresswoman Frances P. Bolton, who served as Vice Regent from Ohio from 1938 to 1977, launched an effort in the 1940s to preserve the view across the Potomac River. The Association purchased 750 acres (3.0 km2) along the (opposite) Maryland shore, which became the nucleus of the 4,000-acre (16 km2) Piscataway Park.[9] This has helped preserve the landscape as the Washingtons would have seen it.
On June 22, 2012, the Association purchased Washington's personal copy of the United States Constitution at auction for $9.8 million. The bound volume was specially printed for Washington in 1789, his first year in office as president, and contains his handwritten notes and markings.[10] George Washington books and manuscripts purchased by the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association are safeguarded in The Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington.
Awards[edit]
2002 National Humanities Medal
References[edit]
^ ""Saving Mount Vernon: The Birthplace of Preservation of America", ''National Building Museum'', February 15, 2003 – September 21, 2003". Nbm.org. Retrieved October 14, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "John Augustine Washington III". George Washington's Mount Vernon. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
^ Grabitske, David M. (Winter 2003–2004). "First Lady of Preservation: Sarah Sibley and the Mount Vernon Ladies Association" (PDF). Minnesota History. Minnesota Historical Society.CS1 maint: date format (link)
^ "GuideStar nonprofit reports and Forms 990 for donors, grantmakers and businesses". GuideStar. Retrieved October 14, 2011.
^ "Domesticating Revolutionary Sentiment in Susan Fenimore Cooper's Mount Vernon: A Letter to the Children of America". James Fenimore Cooper Society. Retrieved October 14, 2011.
^ "Early History of the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association". George Washington Digital Encyclopedia. Mount Vernon Ladies' Association.
^ Muir, Dorothy Troth. Presence of a Lady: Mount Vernon 1861–1868 (Mt. Vernon Publishing: Washington DC: 1946) pp. 90
^ "Charity Navigator Rating - Mount Vernon Ladies' Association". Charitynavigator.org. Retrieved October 14, 2011.
^ "Ann Pamela Cunningham And The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association". Essortment.com. May 16, 1986. Retrieved October 14, 2011.
^ "Washington's Constitution get record $9.8 million". msnbc.msn.com. June 22, 2012. Archived from the original on June 23, 2012. Retrieved June 22, 2012.
Sources[edit]
"Annual report" – The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of the Union (1896)
"Portraits/Biographies of Regent and Vice Regents to 1874", MVLA – Portraits &amp; Bios
"Mount Vernon Lands Diminish", Old and Sold, 1925
Thane, Elswyth. Mount Vernon is Ours: The Story of the Preservation and Restoration of Washington's Home (Duell, Sloan and Pearce: New York; 1966) pp. 467
vteGeorge Washington
1st President of the United States, 1789–1797
Senior Officer of the Army, 1798–1799
Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, 1775–1783
Second Continental Congress, 1775
First Continental Congress, 1774
Military careerRevolutionary War
Military career
French and Indian War
Jumonville Glen
Battle of Fort Necessity
Battle of the Monongahela
Forbes Expedition
Washington and the American Revolution
Commander-in-chief, Continental Army
Aides-de-camp
Washington's headquarters
office and sleeping tent
Boston campaign
Siege of Boston
New York and New Jersey campaign
Delaware River crossing
Battle of Trenton
Battle of the Assunpink Creek
Battle of Princeton
Philadelphia campaign
Battle of Brandywine
Battle of Germantown
Battle of White Marsh
Valley Forge
Battle of Monmouth
Battles of Saratoga
Sullivan Expedition
Yorktown campaign
Siege of Yorktown
Culper spy ring
Newburgh Conspiracy
Newburgh letter
Resignation as commander-in-chief
Badge of Military Merit
Purple Heart
Washington Before Boston Medal
Horses: Nelson and Blueskin
Other U.S.founding events
1769 Virginia Association
Continental Association
1774 Fairfax Resolves
Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture
1785 Mount Vernon Conference
Chairman, 1787 Constitutional Convention
George Washington's political evolution
Presidency
1788–89 United States presidential election
Reception at Trenton
1792
inaugural bible
Title of "Mr. President"
Cabinet of the United States
Secretary of State
Attorney General
Secretary of the Treasury
Secretary of War
Judiciary Act of 1789
Nonintercourse Act
Whiskey Rebellion
Militia Acts of 1792
Coinage Act of 1792
United States Mint
Proclamation of Neutrality
Neutrality Act of 1794
Jay Treaty
Pinckney's Treaty
Slave Trade Act of 1794
Residence Act
Thanksgiving Proclamation
Farewell Address
State of the Union Address 1790
1791
1792
1793
1796
Cabinet
Federal judicial appointments
Views andpublic image
Presidential library
The Washington Papers
Religious views
Washington and slavery
Town Destroyer
Legacy
Life and homes
Early life
Birthplace
Ferry Farm boyhood home
Mount Vernon
Gristmill
Woodlawn Plantation
Samuel Osgood House, First Presidential Mansion
Alexander Macomb House, Second Presidential Mansion
President's House, Philadelphia
Germantown White House
Custis estate
Potomac Company
James River and Kanawha Canal
Mountain Road Lottery
Congressional Gold Medal
Thanks of Congress
President General of the Society of the Cincinnati
Washington College
Washington and Lee University
Electoral history of George Washington
Memorialsand depictions
Washington, D.C.
Washington state
Washington Monument
Mount Rushmore
Washington's Birthday
Purple Heart
The Apotheosis of Washington
George Washington (Houdon)
George Washington (Ceracchi)
George Washington (Canova)
George Washington (Greenough)
George Washington (Trumbull)
Washington Crossing the Delaware
The Passage of the Delaware
General George Washington at Trenton
Washington at Verplanck's Point
General George Washington Resigning His Commission
Surrender of Lord Cornwallis
Unfinished portrait
Lansdowne portrait
The Washington Family portrait
Washington at Princeton paintings
Reception at Trenton painting
Princeton Battle Monument
Point of View sculpture
Austin statue
Baltimore statue
Boston statue
Philadelphia statue
Portland statue
Washington, D.C. statue
West Point monument
Mexico City statue
National Garden of American Heroes
George Washington University
Washington University
Washington Masonic National Memorial
George Washington Memorial Parkway
George Washington Bridge
Washington and Jefferson National Forests
Washington Monument, Baltimore
Washington Square Park
Arch
List of memorials
U.S. Postage stamps
Washington-Franklin Issues
1932 bicentennial
Currency
Washington quarter
50 State Quarters
D.C. and territories quarters
America the Beautiful quarters
Washington dollar
Lafayette dollar
Silver bullion coins
Washington nickel
Mount Washington
Cultural depictions
George Washington (1984 miniseries
1986 sequel)
A More Perfect Union (1989 film)
We Fight to Be Free (2006 film)
Turn: Washington's Spies (2014–2017 series)
Washington (2020 miniseries)
Hamilton (film)
Related
Bibliography
List of articles
Founding Fathers of the United States
Republicanism
Federalist Party
Federalist Era
Virginia dynasty
Coat of arms
Cherry-tree anecdote
River Farm
Washington's Crossing
Washington–Rochambeau Revolutionary Route
1751 Barbados trip
Category
Syng inkstand
General of the Armies
American Philosophical Society
American Revolution
patriots
Betsy Ross flag
Mount Vernon Ladies' Association
Ancestryand family
Martha Washington (wife)
John Parke Custis (stepson)
George Washington Parke Custis (step-grandson, adopted son)
Eleanor Parke Custis (step-granddaughter, adopted daughter)
Augustine Washington (father)
Mary Ball Washington (mother)
Lawrence Washington (half-brother)
Augustine Washington Jr. (half-brother)
Betty Washington Lewis (sister)
Samuel Washington (brother)
John A. Washington (brother)
Charles Washington (brother)
Lawrence Washington (grandfather)
John Washington (great-grandfather)
Bushrod Washington (nephew)
John Adams →
 Category
vteWomen's clubs in the United StatesClubsNationwide
American Association of University Women
American Woman's League
Association of Southern Women for the Prevention of Lynching
Daughters of the American Revolution
General Federation of Women's Clubs
League of Women Voters
National Association of Colored Women
National Council of Jewish Women
Phillis Wheatley Club
Queen Isabella Association
United Order of Tents
Women's Christian Temperance Union
Women's National Republican Club 
Women's Joint Congressional Committee
Women's Trade Union League
Young Women's Christian Association
Alabama
Alabama's Colored Women's Club
Alaska
Anchorage Woman's Club
Arizona
Casa Grande Woman's Club
Glendale Woman's Club
Willcox Women's Club
California
Berkeley City Club
Beverly Hills Women's Club
California State Federation of Colored Women's Clubs
College Women's Club
Ebell Society
Ebell of Los Angeles
Francisca Club
Hollywood Women's Press Club
La Jolla Woman's Club
Los Angeles Nurses' Club
San Pedro Woman's Club
Wilfandel
Woman's Club of Lincoln
Woman's Improvement Club (Corona)
Florida
Miami Women's Club
Georgia
Atlanta Neighborhood Union
Atlanta Woman's Club
Dawson Woman's Club
Demorest Women's Club
Tennille Woman's Club
Illinois
Chicago and Northern District Association of Colored Women's Clubs
Chicago Woman's Club
Fortnightly of Chicago
Frederick Douglass Woman's Club
Three Arts Club of Chicago
Indiana
Indiana State Federation of Colored Women's Clubs
Vincennes Fortnightly Club
Iowa
Iowa Federation of Colored Women's Clubs
Kansas
Topeka Council of Colored Women's Clubs Building
Woman's Club of Topeka
Kentucky
Kentucky Federation of Women's Clubs
Louisiana
Era Club of New Orleans
Maryland
Maryland Woman Suffrage Association
Massachusetts
Chilton Club
The College Club of Boston
Colored Female Religious and Moral Society
New England Woman's Press Association
New England Women's Club
Woman's Era Club
Michigan
Ladies' Library Association of Kalamazoo
Minnesota
Saint Paul Women's City Club
Mississippi
Mississippi Federation of Women's Clubs
Mississippi State Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs
Nevada
20th Century Club (Reno, Nevada)
New Mexico
Alamogordo Woman's Club
Carrizozo Woman's Club
New York
Brooklyn Women's Club
Colony Club
Cosmopolitan Club (New York)
Empire State Federation of Women's Clubs
Equal Suffrage League (Brooklyn)
Newswomen's Club of New York
Sorosis
Women's City Club of New York
North Carolina
Charlotte Woman's Club
Ohio
Dayton Women's Club
Oklahoma
Oklahoma Federation of Colored Women's Clubs
Federation of Women's Clubs for Oklahoma and Indian Territories
Oregon
Ashland Women's Civic Improvement Club
The Town Club
Pennsylvania
Cosmopolitan Club of Philadelphia
The Plastic Club
South Carolina
General Federation of Women’s Clubs of South Carolina
South Carolina Federation of Colored Women's Clubs
Tennessee
Country Woman's Club (Clarksville, Tennessee)
The Nineteenth Century Club
Ossoli Circle
Texas
Dallas Equal Suffrage Association
Houston Heights Woman's Club
Lyceum Club (Dallas)
Texas Association of Women's Clubs
Texas Equal Rights Association
Texas Equal Suffrage Association
Texas Federation of Women's Clubs
Woman's Club of El Paso
The Woman's Club of Fort Worth
Woman's Club of San Antonio
Virginia
Mount Vernon Ladies' Association
Washington
Woman's Club of Olympia
Women's University Club of Seattle
Wisconsin
Wauwatosa Woman's Club
Wyoming
Casper Women's Club House
Washington D.C.
Sulgrave Club
Women's City Club of Washington, D.C.
Publications
The Woman's Era
Conventions
First National Conference of the Colored Women of America
Buildings
List of women's club buildings
vteHistorical societies for the southern United StatesSouth AtlanticFloridaOrlando
Historical Society of Central Florida
Orange County Regional History Center
Others
Clearwater Historical Society (Clearwater)
Florida Historical Society (Cocoa)
Friends of Seagate Inc. (Sarasota)
Jacksonville Historical Society (Jacksonville)
Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation (Boynton Beach)
Taylor County Historical Society (Perry)
GeorgiaAtlanta
American Baptist Historical Society
Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation
International Time Capsule Society
Others
Historic Chattahoochee Commission (LaGrange)
Georgia Historical Society (Savannah)
Georgia Salzburger Society (Ebenezer)
Roswell Historical Society (Roswell)
Southern Historical Association (Athens)
North CarolinaDurham
Forest History Society
Labor and Working-Class History Association
Others
Conference on Latin American History (Charlotte)
Hickory Sabre Society (Hickory)
Society of North Carolina Archivists (Raleigh)
South CarolinaCharleston
Historic Charleston Foundation
Preservation Society of Charleston
South Carolina Historical Society
Others
Beech Island Historical Society (Beech Island)
Sea Research Society (North Charleston)
VirginiaLexington
Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication
Society for Military History
Richmond
American Association for the History of Medicine
Historic Richmond Foundation
Preservation Virginia
Virginia Department of Historic Resources
Virginia Historical Society
Others
Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training (Arlington)
Mount Vernon Ladies' Association (Mount Vernon)
Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture (Williamsburg)
Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media (Fairfax)
United States Marine Corps History Division (Quantico)
East South CentralAlabama
Alabama Historical Commission (Montgomery)
Historic Chattahoochee Commission (Eufaula)
Kentucky
The Filson Historical Society (Louisville)
Kentucky Historical Society (Frankfort)
Southern Association for Women Historians (Louisville)
MississippiJackson
Mississippi Department of Archives and History
Mississippi Heritage Trust
Mississippi Historical Society
Tennessee
American Association for State and Local History (Nashville)
East Tennessee Historical Society (Knoxville)
Oral History Association (Murfreesboro)
Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations (Murfreesboro)
Tennessee Historical Society (Nashville)
West Tennessee Historical Society (Memphis)
West South CentralArkansas
Arkansas Historical Association (Fayetteville)
Cotton Belt Rail Historical Society (Pine Bluff)
Sequoyah Research Center (Little Rock)
Louisiana
Louisiana Historical Association (Lafayette)
National Center for Preservation Technology and Training (Natchitoches)
North Louisiana Historical Association (Shreveport)
Oklahoma
American Journalism Historians Association (Shawnee)
Cherokee Heritage Center (Park Hill)
Oklahoma Historical Society (Oklahoma City)
Pushmataha County Historical Society (Antlers)
TexasAustin
Texas Historical Commission
Texas Jewish Historical Society
Texas State Historical Association
Fort Worth
North American Society for Oceanic History
North Texas Historic Transportation
Houston
Modern Greek Studies Association
Southern Historical Association
Lubbock
American Cowboy Culture Association
West Texas Historical Association
Others
Dallas Historical Society (Dallas)
East Texas Historical Association (Nacogdoches)
Gillespie County Historical Society (Fredericksburg)
National Coalition of Independent Scholars (San Antonio)
Society for the History of Discoveries (Arlington)
South Texas Historical Association (Kingsville)
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 59411
BNE: XX178528
BNF: cb12756046f (data)
CiNii: DA05398979
GND: 260502-8
ISNI: 0000 0001 2161 4982
LCCN: n50005865
NLI: 002089890
PIC: 8138
SNAC: w6x67qxq
SUDOC: 165196556
ULAN: 500303254
VIAF: 132895293
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n50005865
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mount_Vernon_Ladies%27_Association&amp;oldid=975254459"
		Categories: Historical societies of the United StatesNational Humanities Medal recipients1853 establishments in VirginiaOrganizations established in 1853Mount VernonHidden categories: CS1 maint: date formatUse mdy dates from October 2011Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CINII identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with PIC identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Add links
		 This page was last edited on 27 August 2020, at 16:45 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
