	Afro-Cubans
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Lucumí people)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
For other uses, see Afro-Cuban (disambiguation).
Afro-CubansTotal population1,034,044(9.3% of the Cuban Population)[1] (2012)LanguagesSpanish, Lucumí, Habla Congo, English, Portuguese, Cuban Sign LanguageReligionAfro-Cuban religionsAbakuá, Arará religion, Cuban Vodú, Palo, SanteríaPopular religionsPredominantly Roman Catholic, minorities of ProtestantRelated ethnic groupsArará, Cape Verdean Cuban, Ganga-Longoba, Haitian Cuban, Lucumí people
Afro-Cubans are Cubans who are of Black African ancestry, mostly West and Central African. The term Afro-Cuban can also refer to historical or cultural elements in Cuba thought to emanate from this community and the combining of native African and other cultural elements found in Cuban society such as race, religion, music, language, the arts and class culture.[2]
Contents
1 Demographics
1.1 Afro-Cuban descendants in Africa
1.2 Haitian-Cubans
2 Religion
3 Music
4 Language
5 Racial consciousness
6 Afrocubanismo
6.1 History of the movement
6.2 Results of the movement
7 Notable Afro-Cubans
7.1 Arts and entertainment
7.2 Music
7.3 Politics
7.4 Science
7.5 Sports
8 See also
9 Footnotes
10 Further reading
Demographics[edit]
Main article: Demographics of Cuba
According to a 2012 national census which surveyed 11.2 million Cubans, 1 million Cubans described themselves as Afro-Cuban or Black, while 3 million considered themselves to be "mulatto" or "mestizo".[3] Thus a significant proportion of those living on the island affirm some African ancestry. The matter is further complicated by the fact that a fair number of people still locate their origins in specific native African ethnic groups or regions, particularly the Yoruba (or Lucumí), Akan, Arará and Kongo, but also Igbo, Carabalí, Mandingo, Kissi, Fula, Makua and others.
A study from 2014 estimated the genetic admixture of the population of Cuba to be 70% European, 22% African and 8% Native American.[4]
Although Afro-Cubans can be found throughout Cuba, Eastern Cuba has a higher concentration of Afro-Cubans than other parts of the island and Havana has the largest population of Afro-Cubans of any city in Cuba.[5] Recently, many native African immigrants have been coming to Cuba, especially from Angola.[6] Also, immigrants from Jamaica and Haiti have been settling in Cuba, most of whom settle in the eastern part of the island, due to its proximity to their home countries, further contributing to the already high percentage of blacks on that side of the island.[5]
The percentage of Afro-Cubans on the island increased after the 1959 Cuban revolution led by Fidel Castro due to mass migration from the island of the largely white Cuban professional class.[7] A small percentage of Afro-Cubans left Cuba, mostly for the United States, (particularly Florida), where they and their U.S.-born children are called Cuban Americans, Hispanic Americans and African Americans. Only a few of them resided in nearby Spanish-speaking country of Dominican Republic and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico.
The now-defunct Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami put the percentage of Cuba's black population at 62%.[8] The Minority Rights Group International says that "An objective assessment of the situation of Afro-Cubans remains problematic due to scant records and a paucity of systematic studies both pre- and post-revolution".[9]
Afro-Cuban descendants in Africa[edit]
African countries such as Nigeria, the home of the Yoruba and Igbo cultures, and Equatorial Guinea experienced an influx of ex-slaves from Cuba brought there as indentured servants during the 17th century, and again during the 19th century. In Equatorial Guinea, they became part of the Emancipados; in Nigeria, they were called Amaros.  Despite being free to return to Cuba when their tenure was over, they remained in these countries marrying into the local indigenous population. The former slaves were brought to Africa by the Royal Orders of September 13, 1845 (by way of voluntary arrangement) and a June 20, 1861, deportation from Cuba, due to the lack of volunteers. Similar circumstances previously occurred during the 17th century where ex-slaves from both Cuba and Brazil were offered the same opportunity.
Angola also has communities of Afro-Cubans, Amparos. They are descendants of Afro-Cuban soldiers brought to the country in 1975 as a result of the Cuban involvement in the Cold War. Fidel Castro deployed thousands of troops to the country during the Angolan Civil War. As a result of this era, there exists a small Spanish-speaking community in Angola of Afro-Cubans numbering about 100,000.
Haitian-Cubans[edit]
Main article: Haitian Cuban
Haitian Creole and culture first entered Cuba with the arrival of Haitian immigrants at the start of the 19th century. Haiti was then the French colony of Saint-Domingue, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian Revolution brought a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian slaves to Cuba. They came mainly to the east, and especially Guantánamo, where the French later introduced sugar cultivation, constructed sugar refineries and developed coffee plantations. By 1804, some 30,000 Frenchmen were living in Baracoa and Maisí, the furthest eastern municipalities of the province. Later, Haitians continued to come to Cuba to work as braceros (Spanish for "manual laborers") in the fields cutting cane. Their living and working conditions were not much better than slavery. Although they planned to return to Haiti, most stayed on in Cuba. For years, many Haitians and their descendants in Cuba did not identify themselves as such or speak Creole. In the eastern part of the island, many Haitians suffered discrimination. 
After Spanish, Creole is the second most-spoken language in Cuba.  In addition to the eastern provinces, there are also communities in Ciego de Ávila and Camagüey provinces where the population still maintains Creole, their mother tongue. Classes in Creole are offered in Guantanamo, Matanzas and the City of Havana. There is a Creole-language radio program.
Religion[edit]
  Santería icons at an open place of worship in Havana. Santería is a syncretism practiced by many Afro-Cubans
Afro-Cuban religion can be broken down into three main currents: Santería, Palo Monte and Abakuá and include individuals of all origins. Santería is syncretized with Roman Catholicism.
The Abakuá religion is a secret society for men, similar to the freemason orders of Europe. It has not been syncretized with Roman Catholicism and remains close to its origins in southeastern Nigeria and southwestern Cameroon, from the Ekpe society of the Efik people of Cross River State and nearby areas.
Music[edit]
Main articles: Music of African heritage in Cuba and Music of Cuba § African heritage
Afro-Cuban music involves two main categories of music, religious and profane. Religious music includes the chants, rhythms and instruments used in rituals of the above-mentioned religious currents, while profane music focuses largely on rumba, guaguancó and comparsa (carnival music) as well as several lesser styles such as the tumba francesa. Virtually all Cuban music has been influenced by African rhythms. Cuban popular music, and quite a lot of the art music, has strands from both Spain and Africa, woven into a unique Cuban cloth. The son is a typical example of this. While much of the music is often performed in cut-time, artists typically use an array of time signatures like 6/8 for drumming beats. Clave, on the other hand, uses a polymetric 7/8 + 5/8 time signature [10]
Language[edit]
Other cultural elements considered to be Afro-Cuban can be found in language (including syntax, vocabulary, and style of speech).
The Afro-Cuban religions all maintain some degree of use of African languages. Santería and Abakuá both have large parts of their liturgy in African languages (Lucumí, Igbo and Ñañigo, respectively) while Palo uses a mixture of Spanish and Kikongo, known as Habla Congo.
Racial consciousness[edit]
Main article: Racism in Cuba
According to anthropologists dispatched by the European Union, racism is entrenched in Cuba.[11] Afro-Cubans are systematically excluded from positions in tourism-related jobs, where they could earn tips in hard currencies.[11] According to the EU study, Afro-Cubans are relegated to poor housing, and African Cubans are excluded from managerial positions.[11]
Enrique Patterson describes race as a "social bomb" and says that "If the Cuban government were to permit Afro-Cubans to organize and raise their problems before [authorities] ... totalitarianism would fall".[8] Esteban Morales Domínguez, a professor at the University of Havana, says that "The absence of the debate on the racial problem already threatens ... the revolution's social project".[8] Carlos Moore, who has written extensively on the issue, says that "There is an unstated threat, Afro-cubans in Cuba know that whenever you raise race in Cuba, you go to jail. Therefore the struggle in Cuba is different. There cannot be a civil rights movement. You will have instantly 10,000 black people dead. [...] The government is frightened to the extent to which it does not understand African Cubans today. You have a new generation of Afro-Cubans who are looking at politics in another way."[8] Barack Obama's victory has raised disturbing questions about the institutional racism in Cuba.[11] The Economist noted "The danger starts with his example: after all, a young, Afro-cuban, progressive politician has no chance of reaching the highest office in Cuba, although a majority of the island's people are of mostly African descent"[12]
In the years between the triumph of the revolution and the victory at Playa Girón the Cuban government was one of the world's most proactive regimes in the fight against discrimination.  It achieved significant gains in racial equality through a series of egalitarian reforms early in the 1960s. Fidel Castro's first public address on racism after his rise to power was on March 23, 1959, at a labor rally in Havana, less than three months after he defeated Fulgencio Batista. He is quoted as saying: "One of the most just battles that must be fought, a battle that must be emphasized more and more, which I might call the fourth battle--the battle to end racial discrimination at work centers. I repeat: the battle to end racial discrimination at work centers. Of all the forms of racial discrimination the worst is the one that limits the colored Cuban's access to jobs. "[13] Castro pointed to the distinction between social segregation and employment, while placing great emphasis on correcting the latter. In response to the large amount of racism that existed in the job market, Castro issued anti-discrimination laws. In addition, he attempted to close the class gap between wealthy white Cubans and Afro-Cubans with a massive literacy campaign among other egalitarian reforms in the early and mid-1960s.[14]
Two years after his 1959 speech at the Havana Labor Rally, Castro declared that the age of racism and discrimination was over. In a speech given at the Confederation of Cuban Workers in observance of May Day, Castro declared that the "just laws of the revolution ended unemployment, put an end to villages without hospitals and schools, enacted laws which ended discrimination, control by monopolies, humiliation, and the suffering of the people."[15] Although inspiring, many would consider the claim to be premature."[16]
Research conducted by Yesilernis Peña, Jim Sidanius and Mark Sawyer in 2003, suggests that social discrimination is still prevalent, despite the low levels of economic discrimination.[17]
After considering the issue solved, the Cuban government moved beyond the issue of racism.  His message marked a shift in Cuban society's perception of racism that was triggered by the change in government focus."[16]  The government's announcement easily allowed the Cuban public to deny discrimination without first correcting the stereotypes that remained in the minds of those who grew up in a Cuba that was racially and economically divided. Many who argue that racism does not exist in Cuba base their claims on the idea of Latin American Exceptionalism. According to the argument of Latin American Exceptionality, a social history of intermarriage and mixing of the races is unique to Latina America. The large mestizo populations that result from high levels of interracial union common to Latin America are often linked to racial democracy. For many Cubans this translates into an argument of "racial harmony", often referred to as racial democracy. In the case of Cuba, ideas of Latin American Exceptionalism have delayed the progress of true racial harmony.[18]
Most of the Latin population of Tampa in the 1950s was working class and lived in restricted areas, ethnic enclaves in the vicinity of Tampa's hundreds of cigar factories. African Cubans were tolerated to an extent in the Latin quarter (where most neighborhoods and cigar factories were integrated). Ybor City and its counterpart, West Tampa, were areas that bordered on other restricted sections-areas for U.S. blacks or whites only. In this Latin quarter, there existed racial discrimination despite its subtleness.[19]
Afrocubanismo[edit]
Main article: Afrocubanismo
During the 1920s and 1930s Cuba experienced a movement geared towards Afro-Cuban culture called Afrocubanismo.[20] The movement had a large impact on Cuban literature, poetry, painting, music, and sculpture.  It was the first artistic campaign in Cuba that focused on one particular theme: African culture.  Specifically it highlighted the struggle for independence from Spain, African slavery, and building a purely Cuban national identity.  Its goal was to incorporate African folklore and rhythm into traditional modes of art.
History of the movement[edit]
The movement evolved from an interest in the rediscovery of African heritage.  It developed in two very different and parallel stages.  One stage stemmed from European artists and intellectuals who were interested in African art and musical folk forms.[21] This stage paralleled the Harlem Renaissance in New York, Négritude in the French Caribbean, and coincided with stylistic European Vanguard (like Cubism and its representation of African masks).  It was characterized by the participation of white intellectuals such as Cubans Alejo Carpentier, Rómulo Lachatañeré, Fortunato Vizcarrondo, Fernando Ortiz and Lydia Cabrera, Puerto Rican Luis Palés Matos and Spaniards Pablo Picasso and Roger de Lauria.  The African-inspired art tended to represent Afro-Cubans with cliché images such as a black man sitting beneath a palm tree with a cigar.
Poems and essays by Afro-Cuban writers began to be published in the 1930s in newspapers, magazines and books, where they discussed their own personal heritage.  Afro-Cuban and Afro-Cuban heritage artists such as Nicolás Guillén, Alberto Arredondo and Emilio Ballagas brought light to the once-marginalized African race and culture.  It became a symbol of empowerment and individuality for Afro-Cubans within the established Western culture of the Americas and Europe.[22]
This empowerment became a catalyst for the second stage to be characterized by Afro-Cuban artists making art that truly reflected what it meant to be Afro-Cuban. Beginning in the 1930s this stage depicted a more serious view of black culture like African religions and the struggles associated with slavery.  The main protagonist during this stage of the movement was Nicolás Guillén.[23]
Results of the movement[edit]
The lasting reputation of the Afrocubanismo movement was the establishment of a New World art form that used aesthetics from both European and African culture.[24] Although the actual movement of Afrocubanismo faded by the early 1940s, Afro-Cuban culture continues to play a vital role in the identity of Cuba.  It has been the Cuban Revolution that opened up a space for extended research of African ethnic roots in Cuba.[25] The rhetoric of the Revolution incorporates black history and its contribution as an important stratum of Cuban identity.  The Revolution has funded many projects that restore the work of Afro-Cubans in an effort to accommodate an African-driven identity within the new anti-racist Cuban society.[26]
Notable Afro-Cubans[edit]
Arts and entertainment[edit]
Renny Arozarena - actor
Gastón Baquero - poet
Jake Cannavale - actor
Matt Cedeño - actor and model
Celia Cruz - singer
Mellow Man Ace - rapper
Rosario Dawson - actress
Ángel Escobar - poet
Lola Falana - actress, singer and dancer
Rome Flynn- actor
Sara Gómez - filmmaker
Nicolás Guillén - poet
Nestor Hernández - photographer
Georgina Herrera - poet
Wifredo Lam - artist
Coco López - artist
Faizon Love - actor
Nancy Morejón - poet
Luis Moro - actor and filmmaker
Gina Torres - actress
Alexis Valdés - artist and comedian
Music[edit]
Afro-Cuban All Stars
Francisco Aguabella — percussionist
Federico A. "Tata Güines" Soto Alejo — percussionist and bandleader
Carlos Alfonso — bassist and leader of Síntesis
X Alfonso — singer
Alfredo "Chocolate" Armenteros — trumpeter and bandleader
Guillermo Barreto — percussionist
Abelardo Barroso — singer and bandleader
Mario Bauzá — musician and songwriter; brother-in-law of Machito
Ignacio Berroa — percussionist
Leo Brouwer — composer and guitarist
Cándido Camero — percussionist
"Changuito" — percussionist and former member of Los Van Van
Julito Collazo — percussionist and singer
Celia Cruz — singer
Christina Milian — singer
Anga Díaz — percussionist and former member of Irakere
Addys D'Mercedes — singer
Richard Egües — flute player, a member of Orquesta Aragón
Ibrahim Ferrer — singer (Buena Vista Social Club)
Juan de Marcos González — musical director of the Buena Vista Social Club
Rubén González — pianist (Conjunto de Arsenio Rodríguez and Buena Vista Social Club)
Graciela — singer; stepsister of Machito
Francisco Raúl "Machito" Gutiérrez Grillo — singer, musician, and bandleader
Marcelino "Rapindey" Guerra — singer  and composer
Amaury Gutiérrez — singer
Oscar Hernández — songwriter; known for  his lyrics "Ella y yo" and "La rosa roja;" cousin of Alberto Arredondo's mother
Generoso "Tojo" Jiménez — trombonist
Enrique Jorrín — violinist, composer, and inventor of the cha-cha-chá rhythm
Pedro Knight — trumpeter with Sonora Matancera, second husband, manager after 1967, and eventual widower of Celia Cruz
Xiomara Laugart — singer
Calixto Leicea — trumpeter, songwriter, and arranger with Sonora Matancera
Pío Leyva — singer  and songwriter (Buena Vista Social Club)
Olivia Longott — singer
Israel "Cachao" López — bassist, composer, and bandleader, creator of the mambo and the first to record Cuban jam sessions (descargas)
Orestes "Macho" López — pianist and songwriter; brother of Cachao
Orlando "Cachaíto" López — bassist (Buena Vista Social Club); nephew of Cachao and Macho
La Lupe — singer
Antonio Machín — singer and bandleader
Kalimba Marichal — Mexican-born singer, actor, and athlete
Rita Marley — singer, humanitarian, and widow of Bob Marley
Mellow Man Ace — rapper
Celeste Mendoza — singer
Pablo Milanés — singer
Benny Moré — singer and bandleader; cousin of Alfredo "Chocolate" Armenteros
Fats Navarro — jazz musician
Bola de Nieve — singer and pianist
Armando Peraza — percussionist
Ignacio Piñeiro — musician, bandleader, and composer
Omara Portuondo — singer (Buena Vista Social Club)
Luciano "Chano" Pozo — Afro-Cuban/jazz percussionist, composer, and bandleader
Dámaso Pérez Prado — "the king of mambo," composer, and the creator of the bachata rhythm, a variant of the guaracha
Ramón "Monguito el Único" Sardiñas Quián — singer
Orlando "Puntilla" Ríos — percussionist, singer, and bandleader
Arsenio Rodríguez — musician, bandleader, and songwriter
Yotuel Romero — singer
Lázaro Ros — singer
Gonzalo Rubalcaba — jazz pianist
Ramón "Mongo" Santamaría — musician, songwriter, and bandleader
Jon Secada — singer
Compay Segundo — singer (Dúo Los Compadres, Grupo de Compay Segundo, and Buena Vista Social Club)  and bandleader
Sen Dog — rapper and member of Cypress Hill
Rozonda Thomas — singer  and composer
Bebo Valdés — pianist
Carlos "Patato" Valdes — conga player and composer
Chucho Valdés — pianist and leader of Irakere, son of Bebo Valdés
Javier Vázquez — songwriter, arranger, and pianist with Sonora Matancera; son of Bubú Valdés; succeeded Lino Frías on piano
Yusa — female bassist
Politics[edit]
Salvador Valdés Mesa — First Vice President of Cuba, former trade union leader, Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Cuba
Juan Almeida Bosque — politician and composer
Víctor Dreke — Cuban revolutionary and second-in-command to Ernesto "Che" Guevara in the Congo
Juan Gualberto Gómez — 1890s revolutionary leader, close collaborator of José Martí; served as a member of the committee of consultations that drafted and amended the Constitution of 1901 and as a Representative and Senator
Mariana Grajales — part of the Cuban Independence War; Antonio Maceo's mother
Esteban Lazo Hernández — politician
Antonio Maceo — 1890s revolutionary leader
Jorge Luis García Pérez — human rights activist
Rafael Serra — writer and political journalist
Harry "Pombo" Villegas — Cuban Communist guerilla
Science[edit]
Arnaldo Tamayo Méndez — cosmonaut; first Latin American and first person of African descent in outer space
Sports[edit]
Aroldis Chapman — MLB
Gilbert Arenas — NBA
Javier Arenas (American football) — NFL
Yoel Romero — Olympic wrestler and mixed martial artist
Hector Lombard — Olympic Judoka
Alexis Vila — Olympic wrestler
Bert Campaneris — MLB, cousin of José Cardenal
José Cardenal — MLB
Joel Casamayor — boxer; WBC Lightweight Champion
José Contreras — MLB
Martín Dihigo — Negro League Baseball Hall of Fame
Juan Carlos Gómez — boxer; former WBC Cruiserweight Champion
Liván Hernández — MLB, half-brother of El Duque
Orlando "El Duque" Hernández — MLB
Kid Chocolate — boxer; former World Featherweight and Junior Lightweight Champion
Orestes Kindelán — most prolific home run hitter in the history of amateur Cuban baseball
Minnie Miñoso — MLB
José Nápoles — boxer; former World Welterweight Champion; also known as "Mantequilla" Nápoles
Sergio Oliva — only bodybuilder to have ever beaten Arnold Schwarzenegger in a Mr. Olympia competition
Tony Oliva — MLB, three time batting champion
Luis Ortiz — professional heavyweight boxer and former WBA Heavyweight Champion
Brayan Peña — MLB
Tony Pérez — MLB Hall of Fame
Anthony Echemendia — amateur wrestler
Juan Pizarro — MLB
Yasiel Puig — MLB
Ana Fidelia Quirot — athlete
Alexei Ramírez — MLB
Sugar Ramos — boxer; former WBA Featherweight Champion
Alexis Rubalcaba — amateur boxer
Félix Savón — amateur boxer
Javier Sotomayor — world record holder in high jump
Teófilo Stevenson — amateur boxer
Luis Tiant — MLB
Regla Torres — volleyball player
Cristóbal Torriente — Negro League Baseball Hall of Fame
Jorge Orta — MLB
See also[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Cuba portal
Afro-Latin Americans – Central and South America
Black Hispanic and Latino Americans – the United States
Cabildo (Cuba)
Emancipados
Haitian Cuban
MPLA
Angolan Civil War
Footnotes[edit]
^ https://web.archive.org/web/20140603230454/http://www.one.cu/publicaciones/cepde/cpv2012/20140428informenacional/46_tabla_II_4.pdf
^ The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition. Houghton Mifflin Company. Random House Unabridged Dictionary, Random House, Inc. 2006.
^ https://web.archive.org/web/20140603230454/http://www.one.cu/publicaciones/cepde/cpv2012/20140428informenacional/46_tabla_II_4.pdf
^ Beatriz Marcheco-Teruel, Esteban J. Parra, Evelyn Fuentes-Smith, Antonio Salas, Henriette N. Buttenschøn, Ditte Demontis, María Torres-Español, Lilia C. Marín-Padrón, Enrique J. Gómez-Cabezas, Vanesa Álvarez-Iglesias, Ana Mosquera-Miguel, Antonio Martínez-Fuentes, Ángel Carracedo, Anders D. Børglum, Ole Mors, "Cuba: Exploring the History of Admixture and the Genetic Basis of Pigmentation Using Autosomal and Uniparental Markers", July 24, 2014. PLOS Genetics.
^ a b OECD Data Sheet
^ Kevin Edmonds (27 September 2013). "Cuba's Other Internationalism: Angola 25 Years Later"..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Race &amp; Identity in Cuba". afrocubaweb.com.
^ a b c d "A barrier for Cuba's black people – New attitudes on once-taboo race questions emerge with a fledgling black movement". Miami Herald. Archived from the original on 1 July 2009.
^ "Cuba – Afro-Cubans". World Directory of Minorities and Indigenous Peoples. Minority Rights Group International. 2008. Retrieved 29 December 2013.
^ King, Anthony (1961:14). Yoruba Sacred Music from Ekiti. Ibadan University Press.
^ a b c d "'Obama Effect' Highlights Racism in Cuba". New America Media. 15 December 2008.[permanent dead link]
^ "Fifty years of the Castro regime – Time for a (long overdue) change". The Economist. 30 December 2008.
^ Speech at Havana Labor Rally . Transcript available on The University of Texas at Austin - Web Central
^ Perez, Louis A. Cuba: Between Reform and Revolution, New York. 2006, p. 326.
^ Speech given by Fidel Castro on April 8, 1961.  Text provided by Havana FIEL Network.
^ a b Moore, C. 1995. Afro-Cubans and the Communist Revolution. Trenton, New Jersey: Africa World Press. Evidence collected in 2003 over proved.
^ Pena, Y., Jim Sidanis and Mark Sawyer. 2003. Racial Democracy in the Americas: A Latin and US Comparison. University of California, Los Angeles.
^ Mark Sawyer. Racial Politics in Post- Revolutionary Cuba.
^ Black Cuban, Black American. Houston, Texas: Arte Publico Press, 130. Print.
^ Arnedo-Gómez, M. "Introduction." Writing Rumba. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 2006: 1.
^ "Afrocubanismo", Encyclopedia of World Literature in the 20th Century. Ed. Lenard S Klein. Continuum: Continuum Publishing Company, 2008: 20.
^ Moore, R. "The Minorista Vanguard: Modernism and Afrocubanismo." Nationalizing Blackness: Afrocubanismo and artistic Revolution in Havana, 1920-1940. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1997:200.
^ Henken, T. "Cuban Literature-The Avant-Garde vs the Vanguard: Colonial Literature", in Cuba: A Global Studies Handbook. Santa Barbara: ABC_CLIO, 2008: 363.
^ "Literature of the Revolutionary Era", Encyclopedia of Cuba: People, history, culture. Ed. Luis Martinez Ternandez. Wesport: Greenwood Press, 2003: 345.
^ Rodríguez-Mangual, E. "Introduction", Lydia Cabrera and the Construction of an Afro-Cuban Cultural Identity. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 2004: 17.
^ Rodríguez-Mangual, E. "Introduction", 18.
Further reading[edit]
Arnedo-Gómez, Miguel. "Introduction", Writing Rumba: The Afrocubanista Movement in		Poetry.	Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press. 2006: 1-170.
Duno-Gottberg, Luis, Solventando las diferencias: la ideología del mestizaje en Cuba. Madrid, Iberoamericana – Frankfurt am Main, Vervuert, 2003.
Finch, Aisha and Fannie Rushing (eds.), Breaing the Chains Forging the Nation: The Afro-Cuban Fight for Freedom and Equality. Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University Press, 2019.
García, Cristina. "Introduction", Cubanismo! New York: Vintage Books, 2002: 1-364.
"Literature of the Recolutionary Era", Encyclopedia of Cuba: People, history, culture. Ed. Luis	Martinez Ternandez 1st Vol. Wesport: Greenwood Press, 2003: 345-346.
Henken, Ted. "Cuban Literature-The Avant-Garde vs the Vanguard: Colonial Literature,"	Cuba:	A Global Studies Handbook Global Studies :Latin America &amp; The Caribbean. Santa	Barbara: ABC_CLIO, 2008: 363-385.
Moore, Robin D. "The Minorista vanguard: Moderism and Afrocubanismo" Nationalizing	Blackness: Afrocubansimo and artistic Revolution in Havana, 1920-1940.Pittsburg:	University of Pittsburgh Press, 1997: 195-200.
Ródriguez-Mangual, Edna M. "Introduction" Lydia Cabrera and the Construction of an Afro	Cuban Cultural Identity. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 2004: 1-167.
"Afrocubanismo", Encyclopedia of World Literature in the 20th Century.  Ed. Lenard S. Klein.  2nd	ed. 4thvol. Continuum: Continuum Publishing Company, 1989: 20-21.
vte CubansAfrica
Cape Verdean
Arará
Ganga-Longoba
Yoruba
Americas
American
Haitian
Jamaican
Mexican
Uruguayan
Asia
Chinese
Filipino
Japanese
Korean
Pakistanis
Europe
French
German
Italian
Russian
Spanish (Isleño)
Others
Jewish
Portal
vte Cuba topicsHistoryPre-Revolution
Timeline
Colonial governors
Slavery
Ten Years' War
Little War
Cuban War of Independence
Sinking of USS Maine
Spanish–American War
Platt Amendment
World War I
Republic
1932 hurricane
World War II
Revolution
Post-Revolution
Escambray Rebellion
Bay of Pigs Invasion
Cuban Missile Crisis
Cuban intervention in Angola
Mariel boatlift
Special Period
Fidel's transfer of power
United States–Cuban thaw
Cities
History of Havana
Timeline
Other cities
Timelines: Camagüey, Cienfuegos, Guantánamo, Holguín, Matanzas, Santiago de Cuba
GeographyCities
Bayamo
Camagüey
Ciego de Ávila
Cienfuegos
Guantánamo
Havana
Holguín
Las Tunas
Matanzas
Pinar del Río
Sancti Spíritus
Santa Clara
Santiago de Cuba
Provinces
Artemisa
Camagüey
Ciego de Ávila
Cienfuegos
Ciudad de La Habana
Granma
Guantánamo
Holguín
Isla de la Juventud
Las Tunas
Matanzas
Mayabeque
Pinar del Río
Sancti Spíritus
Santiago de Cuba
Villa Clara
Other
Almendares River
Earthquakes
List of islands
Sierra Maestra
Tropical cyclones
World Heritage Sites
Governance
Security
Economy
Governance
Armed Forces
Castroism
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Law
Politics
Presidency
Cuba–United Statesrelations
Bay of Pigs Invasion
Brothers to the Rescue
Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba
Coordination of United Revolutionary Organizations
Cuban American
Cuban-American lobby
Cuban dissident movement
Cuban Five
Cuban Missile Crisis
Elián González affair
Fair Play for Cuba Committee
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base
Helms–Burton Act
Cuba–United States hijackings
Luis Posada Carriles
Mariel boatlift
Orlando Bosch
Operation Northwoods
Operation Peter Pan
Platt Amendment
Spanish–American War
United States ambassador
United States embargo
United States Interests Section
Political partiesCurrent
Communist Party
Christian Democratic
Democratic Social-Revolutionary
Democratic Socialist Current
Democratic Solidarity
Liberal
Liberal Movement
Social Democratic Co-ordination
Former
Auténtico
Cuban National
Democratic Union
Independent Republican
Ortodoxo
Popular Socialist
Republican (Havana)
SecurityMilitary
Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces (MINFAR)
Air Force
Army
Navy
Territorial Troops Militia
Law enforcement
National Revolutionary Police Force
Intelligence
Dirección General de Inteligencia
Military Counterintelligence Directorate
Economy
Agriculture
Agrarian reform
Cooperatives
Central bank
Peso (currency)
Convertible peso
International rankings
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
airline
Society
Culture
Society
Censorship
Committees for the Defense of the Revolution
Education
Health care
Human rights
LGBT
LGBT history
Women
Language
Rationing
Scouting and Guiding
Sociolismo
Culture
Art
Architecture
Cinema
Cuisine
Internet
Literature
Media
Newspapers
TV
Music
Musical theater
Festivals
Public holidays
Radio
Religion
Santería
Sport
baseball
boxing
football
Universities
Demographics
People
Demographics
Cubans
Afro-Cubans
Americans
Cape Verdean
Chinese
Ciboney
Filipino
French
Haitian
Isleños
Italian
Japanese
Jews
Koreans
Lebanese
Mexicans
Spanish
White
PeopleBy name
Desi Arnaz
Fulgencio Batista
Leo Brouwer
Fidel Castro
Raúl Castro
Celia Cruz
Ibrahim Ferrer
Osmani García
Máximo Gómez
Elián González
Nicolás Guillén
José Martí
Pablo Milanés
Omara Portuondo
Silvio Rodríguez
Compay Segundo
Félix Varela
By occupation
Architects
Artists
Athletes
baseball players
Painters
abstract
Writers
women
 Category
vteAfrican diasporaBy geographyAmericasCaribbean
Anguilla
Antigua and Barbuda
Aruba
Bahamas
Barbados
Bermuda
Cayman Islands
Cuba
Arará
Cape Verdean
Lucumí
Ganga-Longoba
Curaçao
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Samaná Americans
Cocolo
Grenada
Haiti
Marron
Marabou
Jamaica
Coromantee
Jamaican Maroons
Puerto Rico
Arará
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Black Caribs
Garifuna
Trinidad and Tobago
Dougla people
Merikins
Turks and Caicos Islands
Central America
Belize
Garifuna
Costa Rica
El Salvador
Guatemala
Honduras
Miskito people
Miskito Sambu
Nicaragua
Panama
Cimarrón
North America
Canada
Nova Scotia
Mexico
Mascogos
United States
Black Hispanic
Black Indians
Black Seminoles
Creoles of Color
Garifuna
Gullah
African immigrants
South America
Argentina
Bolivia
Brazil
Kalunga
Macombo
Quilombo
Bushinengue people
Colombia
Raizal
Chile
Ecuador
French Guiana
Aluku
Ndyuka
Saramaka
Guyana
Paraguay
Peru
Suriname
Kwinti
Matawai
Ndyuka
Paramaccan
Saramaka
Uruguay
Venezuela
Europe
Abkhazia
Belgium
France
Paris
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Italy
Finland
Lithuania
Netherlands
Norway
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Spain
Sweden
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Liverpool
Scotland
Wales
Middle East
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Jordan
Palestine
Syria
Turkey
Yemen
Asiaand Oceania
Australia
China
Guangzhou
Hong Kong
India and Pakistan
Siddi
in Karnataka
Malaysia
New Zealand
Sri Lanka
Kaffirs
Atlantic
Saint Helena
SecondaryAfro-AmericandiasporaSettlement in Africa
Ghana
African Americans
Tabom (Afro-Brazilians)
Liberia
Americo-Liberians (Afro-Americans)
Nigeria
Saro
Afro-Brazilian
Sierra Leone
Sierra Leone Creole people
Settlement in Europe
France
African Americans and Haitians
United Kingdom
African Americans and Afro-Caribbean people
Germany
Ireland
African Americans
[[1]]
Asia and Oceania
Australia
China
African American
India
Israel
Black Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem
Americans in Japan
African Americans
Korea
North Korea and South Korea
New Zealand
Pakistan
African Americans
Philippines
African-Americans
Qatar
African-Americans
United Arab Emirates
Dubai
Wider issues
Afro-American religion
Atlantic slave trade
Yoruba people
Igbo people
Akan people
Black Power
Civil rights movement
Creole peoples
Maroons
Slavery
Reparations
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Afro-Cubans&amp;oldid=982371396"
		Categories: Afro-CubanAfro-CaribbeanCuban societyEthnic groups in CubaCuban people of African descentPeople of African descentHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2016Articles with permanently dead external linksUse dmy dates from October 2016"Related ethnic groups" needing confirmationArticles using infobox ethnic group with image parametersArticles containing Spanish-language text
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		DeutschEspañolFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaעבריתNorsk bokmålPortuguêsRomânăРусскийTürkçe
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 7 October 2020, at 18:39 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
