	Economics of coffee
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Coffee industry)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		  This map shows areas of coffee cultivation by type of coffee: r: Coffea canephora (also known as robusta) m: Both Coffea canephora (robusta) and Coffea arabica (arabica) a: Coffea arabica
Coffee is a popular beverage and an important commodity. Tens of millions of small producers in developing countries make their living growing coffee. Over 2.25 billion cups of coffee are consumed in the world every day. Over 90 percent of coffee production takes place in developing countries - mostly South America, while consumption happens mainly in the industrialized economies. There are 25 million small producers who rely on coffee for a living worldwide. In Brazil, where almost a third of the world's coffee is produced, over five million people are employed in the cultivation and harvesting of over three billion coffee plants; it is a more labour-intensive culture than alternative cultures of the same regions, such as sugar cane or cattle, as its cultivation is not automated, requiring frequent human attention.
Coffee is a major export commodity and was the top agricultural export for 12 countries in 2004; the world's seventh-largest legal agricultural export, by value, in 2005; and "the second most valuable commodity exported by developing countries," from 1970 to circa 2000,[1][2] which is  frequently misstated—see coffee commodity market.[3][4] Unroasted, or green, coffee beans comprise one of the most traded agricultural commodities in the world;[5] the commodity is traded in futures contracts on many exchanges, including the New York Board of Trade, New York Mercantile Exchange, New York Intercontinental Exchange, and the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange.
Contents
1 World production
2 Consumption
3 Pricing
4 Classification
5 Commodity chain for the coffee industry
6 Coffee and the environment
7 Fair trade coffee
8 See also
9 References
10 External links
World production[edit]
Top Ten Green Coffee Producers – 2011(millions of metric tons)
 Brazil
2.70
 Vietnam
1.28
 Indonesia
0.63
 Colombia
0.47
 Ethiopia
0.37
 Peru
0.33
 India
0.30
 Honduras
0.28
 Mexico
0.25
 Guatemala
0.24
World Total
8.46
Source: UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)[1]
In 2009, Brazil was the world leader in production of green coffee, followed by Vietnam, Indonesia, Colombia and Ethiopia.[6] Arabica coffee beans are cultivated in Latin America, eastern Africa, Arabia, or Asia. Robusta coffee beans are grown in western and central Africa, throughout southeast Asia, and to some extent in Brazil.[7]
Beans from different countries or regions can usually be distinguished by differences in flavor, aroma, body, acidity and girth (texture)[8] These taste characteristics are dependent not only on the coffee's growing region, but also on genetic subspecies (varietals) and processing.[9] Varietals are generally known by the region in which they are grown, such as Colombian, Java and Kona.
Consumption[edit]
The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate.  (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In the year 2000 in the US, coffee consumption was 22.1 gallons (100.5 litres) per capita.[10] More than 150 million Americans (18 and older) drink coffee on a daily basis, with 65 percent of coffee drinkers consuming their hot beverage in the morning. In 2008, it was the number-one hot beverage of choice among convenience store customers, generating about 78 percent of sales within the hot dispensed beverages category.[11]
Pricing[edit]
According to the Composite Index of the London-based coffee export country group International Coffee Organization the monthly coffee price averages in international trade had been well above 1000 US cent/lb during the 1920s and 1980s, but then declined during the late 1990s reaching a minimum in September 2001 of just 417 US cent per lb and stayed low until 2004. The reasons for this decline included a collapse of the International Coffee Agreement of 1962–1989[12] with Cold War pressures, which had held the minimum coffee price at US$1.20 per pound.
The expansion of Brazilian coffee plantations and Vietnam's entry into the market in 1994 when the United States trade embargo against it was lifted added supply pressures to growers. The market awarded the more affordable Vietnamese coffee suppliers with trade and caused less efficient coffee bean farmers in many countries such as Brazil, Nicaragua, and Ethiopia not to be able to live off of their products, which at many times were priced below the cost of production, forcing many to quit the coffee bean production and move into slums in the cities. (Mai, 2006).
  A coffee plantation on a hill near Orosí, Costa Rica.
The decline in the ingredient cost of green coffee, while not the only cost component of the final cup being served, occurred at the same time as the rise in popularity specialty cafés, which sold their beverages at unprecedented high prices.
According to the Specialty Coffee Association of America, in 2004 16 percent of adults in the United States drank specialty coffee daily; the number of retail specialty coffee locations, including cafés, kiosks, coffee carts and retail roasters, amounted to 17,400 and total sales were $8.96 billion in 2003.
Specialty coffee, however, is frequently not purchased on commodities exchanges—for example, Starbucks purchases nearly all its coffee through multi-year, private contracts that often pay double the commodity price.[13]  It is also important to note that the coffee sold at retail is a different economic product than wholesale coffee traded as a commodity, which becomes an input to the various ultimate end products so that its market is ultimately affected by changes in consumption patterns and prices.
In 2005, however, the coffee prices rose (with the above-mentioned ICO Composite Index monthly averages between 78.79 (September) and 101.44 (March) US Cent per lb). This rise was likely caused by an increase in consumption in Russia and China as well as a harvest which was about 10 to 20 percent lower than that in the record years before. Many coffee bean farmers can now live off their products, but not all of the extra-surplus trickles down to them, because rising petroleum prices make the transportation, roasting and packaging of the coffee beans more expensive. Prices have risen from 2005 to 2009 and sharply in the second half of 2010 on fears of a bad harvest in key coffee-producing countries, with the ICO indicator price reaching 231 in March 2011.[14]
Classification[edit]
  Shade trees in Orosí in Costa Rica. In the background (red) shade trees and in the foreground pruned trees for different periods in the growth cycle.
A number of classifications are used to label coffee produced under certain environmental or labor standards. For instance, "Bird-Friendly"[15] or "shade-grown coffee" is said to be produced in regions where natural shade (canopy trees) is used to shelter coffee plants during parts of the growing season.
Fair trade coffee is produced by small coffee producers who belong to cooperatives; guaranteeing for these cooperatives a minimum price, though with historically low prices, current fair-trade minimums are lower than the market price of only a few years ago. Fairtrade America is the primary organization currently overseeing Fair Trade coffee practices in the United States, while the Fairtrade Foundation does so in the United Kingdom.
Commodity chain for the coffee industry[edit]
  World Map based on Coffee imported by country in 2005.  Map shows gross imports, not how much coffee stays within the country or how much is consumed. Some countries re-export significant portions of their coffee imported.
The coffee industry currently has a commodity chain that involves producers, middlemen exporters, importers, roasters, and retailers before reaching the consumer.[16] 	Middlemen exporters, often referred to as coffee "coyotes," purchase coffee directly from small farmers.[16]  Large coffee estates and plantations often export their own harvests or have direct arrangements with a transnational coffee processing or distributing company. Under either arrangement, large producers can sell at prices set by the New York Coffee Exchange.
Green coffee is then purchased by importers from exporters or large plantation owners.[16]  Importers hold inventory of large container loads, which they sell gradually through numerous small orders.  They have capital resources to obtain quality coffee from around the world, capital normal roasters do not have.  Roasters' heavy reliance on importers gives the importers great influence over the types of coffee that are sold to consumers.
In the United States, there are around 1,200 roasters.  Roasters have the highest profit margin in the commodity chain.[16]  Large roasters normally sell pre-packaged coffee to large retailers, such as Maxwell House, Folgers and Millstone.
Coffee reaches the consumers through cafes and specialty stores selling coffee, of which, approximately, 30 percent are chains, and through supermarkets and traditional retail chains.  Supermarkets and traditional retail chains hold about 60 percent of market share and are the primary channel for both specialty coffee and non-specialty coffee.  Twelve billion pounds of coffee is consumed around the globe annually, and the United States alone has over 130 million coffee drinkers.
Coffee is also bought and sold by investors and price speculators as a tradable commodity. Coffee Arabica futures contracts are traded on the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) under ticker symbol KC with contract deliveries occurring every year in March, May, July, September, and December.[17] Coffee Robusta futures are traded on ICE London (Liffe) under ticker symbol RC with contract deliveries occurring every year in January, March, May, July, September and November.[18]
Coffee and the environment[edit]
Originally, coffee farming was done in the shade of trees, which provided natural habitat for many animals and insects, roughly approximating the biodiversity of a natural forest.[19][20] These traditional farmers used compost of coffee pulp and excluded chemicals and fertilizers.  They also typically cultivated bananas and fruit trees as shade for the coffee trees,[21] which provided additional income and food security.
However, in the 1970s and 1980s, during the Green Revolution, the US Agency for International Development and other groups gave eighty million dollars to plantations in Latin America for advancements to go along with the general shift to technified agriculture.[22]   These plantations replaced their shade grown techniques with sun cultivation techniques to increase yields, which in turn destroyed forests and biodiversity.[23]
Sun cultivation involves cutting down trees, and high inputs of chemical fertilizers and pesticides.  Environmental problems, such as deforestation, pesticide pollution, habitat destruction, soil and water degradation, are the effects of most modern coffee farms, and the biodiversity on the coffee farm and in the surrounding areas suffer.[19] Of the 50 countries with the highest deforestation rates from 1990 to 1995, 37 were coffee producers.[24]
As a result, there has been a return to both traditional and new methods of growing shade-tolerant varieties.  Shade-grown coffee can often earn a premium as a more environmentally sustainable alternative to mainstream sun-grown coffee.
Fair trade coffee[edit]
Main article: Fair trade coffee
See also[edit]
Black Gold (2006 film)
Business and economics portalCoffee portal
References[edit]
^ Talbot, John M. (2004). Grounds for Agreement: The Political Economy of the Coffee Commodity Chain. Rowman &amp; Littlefield. p. 50. So many people who have written about coffee have gotten it wrong. Coffee is not the second most valuable primary commodity in world trade, as is often stated. [...] It is not the second most traded commodity, a nebulous formulation that occurs repeatedly in the media. Coffee is the second most valuable commodity exported by developing countries..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Pendergrast, Mark (April 2009). "Coffee: Second to Oil?". Tea &amp; Coffee Trade Journal: 38–41. Archived from the original on 10 July 2014. Retrieved 27 May 2014.
^ Pendergrast, Mark (1999). Uncommon Grounds: The History of Coffee and How It Transformed Our World. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-465-03631-8.
^ "FAOSTAT Core Trade Data (commodities/years)". FAO Statistics Division. 2007. Archived from the original on 14 October 2007. Retrieved 24 October 2007. To retrieve export values: Select the "commodities/years" tab. Under "subject", select "Export value of primary commodity." Under "country," select "World." Under "commodity," hold down the shift key while selecting all commodities under the "single commodity" category. Select the desired year and click "show data." A list of all commodities and their export values will be displayed.
^ Mussatto, Solange I.; Machado, Ercília M. S.; Martins, Silvia; Teixeira, José A. (2011). "Production, Composition, and Application of Coffee and Its Industrial Residues". Food and Bioprocess Technology. 4 (5): 661–72. doi:10.1007/s11947-011-0565-z. hdl:1822/22361.
^ 
"Coffee: World Markets and Trade" (PDF). Foreign Agricultural Service Office of Global Analysis. United States Department of Agriculture. December 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 March 2010. Retrieved 26 March 2010.
^ "Botanical Aspects". London: International Coffee Organization. Archived from the original on 24 March 2009. Retrieved 4 January 2010.
^ Davids, Kenneth (2001). Coffee: A Guide to Buying Brewing and Enjoying (5th ed.). New York: St. Martin's Griffin. ISBN 978-0-312-24665-5.
^ Castle, Timothy James (1991). The Perfect Cup: A Coffee Lover's Guide to Buying, Brewing, and Tasting. Reading, Mass.: Aris Books. p. 158. ISBN 978-0-201-57048-9.
^ "Bottled water pours past competition". DSN Retailing Today. 13 October 2003.
^ Fact Sheets: Coffee Sales Archived 3 January 2011 at the Wayback Machine
^ Daviron, Benoit; Ponte, Stefano (2005). "3". The Coffee Paradox. Zed Books, London &amp; NY. p. 86. ISBN 978-1-84277-457-1.
^ Rickert, Eve (15 December 2005). "Environmental effects of the coffee crisis: a case study of land use and avian communities in Agua Buena, Costa Rica". M.Sc. Thesis, The Evergreen State College. Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ ICO. "ICO Indicator Prices". Archived from the original on 29 May 2006.
^ "Shade-Grown Coffee Plantations". nationalzoo.si.edu. Archived from the original on 10 February 2011.
^ a b c d "www.globalexchange.org". Archived from the original on 29 May 2007. Retrieved 17 May 2007.
^ "Coffee C ® Futures". www.theice.com.
^ "Robusta Coffee Futures - ICE". www.theice.com.
^ a b Janzen, Daniel H. (Editor) (1983). Natural History of Costa Rica. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-39334-6.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link)
^ "Fact Sheets". si.edu. Archived from the original on 5 February 2016. Retrieved 4 May 2015.
^ Krigsvold, Marsha (Editor) (2001). Diversification Options for Coffee Growing Areas in Central America. Chemonics International Inc.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link)
^ "NRDC: Coffee, Conservation, and Commerce in the Western Hemisphere - Chapter 3". nrdc.org. Archived from the original on 15 May 2015. Retrieved 4 May 2015.
^ The grind over sun coffee, Smithsonian Migratory Bird Center Archived 22 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ "11 Incredible Facts About The Global Coffee Industry". businessinsider. 2011.
External links[edit]
Listen to  this article (5.9 megabytes)
This audio file was created from a revision of this article dated August 16, 2005 (2005-08-16), and does not reflect subsequent edits.
(Audio helpMore spoken articles)
Eco-certified coffee: How much is there? – Market share of eco-certified coffees as of 2013 with links to references and industry sources.
Corporate coffee: How much is eco-certified? – Top North American coffee brands and the amount of certified coffees each purchased annually, most 2008-2013.
Coffee latest trade data on ITC Trade Map
Articles on world coffee trade at the Agritrade web site.
vteCoffeeTopics
Economics
Fair trade
History
International Coffee Day
Single-origin coffee
Third wave of coffee
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Coffee portalProduction
Coffee production
List of countries by coffee production
Coffee roasting
Coffee wastewater
Decaffeination
Home roasting
Species and varieties
Arabica
Benguet
Blue Mountain
Bonifieur
Bourbon
Geisha
Kona
Maracaturra
Maragogipe
Molokai
S795
Sagada
Charrieriana
Liberica
Barako
Racemosa
Robusta
Sulu
Components
Cafestol
Caffeic acid
Caffeine
Coffee bean
Furan-2-ylmethanethiol
Kahweol
Preparation
Arabic coffee
Jebena
Brewed coffee
Cezve
Chorreador
Coffeemaker
Cold brew
Espresso
doppio
lungo
ristretto
Espresso machine
French press
Instant coffee
Coffee syrup
Knockbox
Moka pot
Percolator
Turkish coffee
Vacuum maker
Single-serve coffee container
Coffee drinks
Affogato
Americano
Beaten coffee
Bica
Bicerin
Black Russian
Cà phê sữa đá
Café au lait
Café de olla
Café con leche
Caffè crema
Café Cubano
Caffè mocha
Café Touba
Caffè corretto
Café com cheirinho
Caffè macchiato
Cappuccino
Carajillo
Coffee cabinet
Coffee milk
Cortado
Dalgona coffee
Espresso
Flat white
Frappuccino
Galão
Garoto
Greek frappé coffee
Iced coffee
Indian filter coffee
Ipoh white coffee
Irish coffee
Karsk
Kopi
Kopi luwak
Kopi tubruk
Kurdish coffee
Latte
Latte macchiato
Liqueur coffee
Long black
Lungo
Marocchino
Mazagran
Oliang
Red eye
Ristretto
Rüdesheimer Kaffee
Tenom coffee
Turkish coffee
White coffee
White Russian
Wiener Melange
Yuenyeung
Organization lists
Bakery cafés
Coffee companies
Coffeehouses
Lifestyle
Barista
Bikini barista
Caffè sospeso
Coffee break
Coffee ceremony
CoffeeCon
Coffee culture
Coffee cupping
Coffee palace
Coffeehouse
Fika
Kopi tiam
Latte art
Viennese coffee house
Substitutes
Barley coffee
Barley tea
Barleycup
Caro
Chicory
Dandelion coffee
Inka
Maya nut
Postum
Qishr
Roasted grain drink
Serving vessels
Coffee cup
sleeve
Demitasse
spoon
Tasse à café
Zarf
Misc.
Coffee and doughnuts
Coffee bag
Coffee leaf rust
King Gustav's twin experiment
Canned coffee
Coffee vending machine
Used coffee grounds
 Category: Coffee
vteMajor industriesNatural sectorBioticAgriculture
Arable farming
Cereals
Legumes
Vegetables
Fiber crops
Oilseeds
Sugar
Tobacco
Permanent crops
Apples et al.
Berries
Citrus
Stone fruits
Tropical fruit
Viticulture
Cocoa
Coffee
Tea
Nuts
Olives
Medicinal plants
Spices
Horticulture
Flowers
Seeds
Animal husbandry
Beef cattle
Dairy farming
Fur farming
Horses
Other livestock
Pig
Wool
Poultry
Beekeeping
Cochineal
Lac
Silk
Hunting
Fur trapping
Forestry
Silviculture
Bamboo
Logging
Firewood
Rattan
Tree tapping
Frankincense
Gum arabic
Gutta-percha
Maple syrup
Mastic
Natural rubber
Palm sugar, syrup, &amp; wine
Pine resin
Wild mushrooms
Fungiculture
Truffles
Aquatic
Fishing
Anchovies
Herring
Sardines
Cod
Haddock
Pollock
Mackerel
Shark
Swordfish
Tuna
Crabs
Lobsters
Sea urchins
Squid
Whaling
Aquaculture
Carp
Catfish
Tilapia
Abalone
Mussels
Oysters
Pearls
Microalgae
Seaweed
Both
Clams
Sea cucumbers
Scallops
Salmon
Shrimp
Geological
Fossil fuels
Coal
Peat
Natural gas
Oil shale
Petroleum
Tar sands
Mining of ores
Aluminum
Copper
Iron
Gold
Silver
Palladium
Platinum
Lithium
Rare-earth metals
Uranium
Other minerals
Gemstones
Phosphorus
Potash
Salt
Sulfur
Quarrying
Gravel
Sand
Chalk
Clay
Gypsum
Limestone
Dimension stone
Granite
Marble
Industrial sectorManufacturingLight industry
Food
Animal feed
Baking
Canning
Dairy products
Flour
Meat
Prepared
Preserved
Sweets
Vegetable oils
Beverages
Beer
Bottled water
Liquor
Soft drinks
Wine
Textiles
Carding
Dyeing
Prints
Spinning
Weaving
Carpets
Lace
Linens
Rope
Clothing
Accessories
Dressmaking
Furs
Hatmaking
Sewing
Shoemaking
Tailoring
Printing
Bookbinding
Embossing
Engraving
Secure
Typesetting
Media reproduction
Cassette tapes
Phonographs
Optical discs
Metal fabrication
Boilermaking
Builders' &amp; household hardware
Cutlery
Gunsmithing
Locksmithing
Machining
Other smithing
Powder metallurgy
Prefabrication
Surface finishing
Other fabrication
3D printing
Blow molding
Drawing
Extrusion
Glassblowing
Injection moulding
Pottery
Sintering
Stonemasonry
Woodworking
Furniture
Other goods
Baggage
Bicycles
Jewellery
Medical supplies
Musical instruments
Office supplies
Outdoors &amp; sports equipment
Safety gear
Toys
Electrical &amp; optical
Electronics
Components
Circuit boards
Semiconductors
Computers
Computer systems
Parts &amp; peripherals
Blank storage media
Communications equipment
Mobile phones
Network infrastructure
Consumer electronics
Televisions
Video game consoles
Instrumentation
Clocks &amp; watches
GPS devices
Scientific instruments
Medical imaging systems
Optical instruments
Cameras
Gun &amp; spotting scopes
Laser construction
Lens grinding
Microscopes
Telescopes
Electrical equipment
Batteries
Electrical &amp; fiber optic cables
Electric lighting
Electric motors
Home appliances
Transformers
Chemicals
Coal &amp; oil refining
Coke
Diesel fuel
Fuel oil
Gasoline
Jet fuel
Kerosene
Propane
Mineral oil
Paraffin wax
Petrochemicals
Petroleum jelly
Synthetic oil
Asphalt
Tar
Commodity chemicals
Fertilizers
Industrial gases
Pigments
Pure elements
Speciality chemicals
Adhesives
Agrochemicals
Aroma compounds
Cleaning products
Cosmetics
Explosives
Fireworks
Paints &amp; inks
Perfumes
Soap
Toiletries
Fine chemicals
Pharmaceuticals
Antibiotics
Blood products
Chemical &amp; hormonal contraceptives
Generic drugs
Illegal drugs
Supplements
Vaccines
Materials
Leather
Liming &amp; deliming
Tanning
Currying &amp; oiling
Wood
Drying
Sawmilling
Engineered
Lumber
Composite
Paper
Sizing
Cardboard
Pulp
Tissue
Rubber
Tires
Vulcanized rubber
Plastics
Commodity
Engineered
Specialty
Pellets
Synthetic fibers
Thermoplastics &amp; thermosets
Glass
Borosilicate
Fused quartz
Soda-lime
Float glass
Glass fiber
Glass wool &amp; fiberglass
Safety glass
Ceramics
Brick
Earthenware
Porcelain
Refractory
Tile
Cement
Mortar
Plaster
Ready-mix concrete
Other mineral
Abrasives
Carbon fibers &amp; advanced materials
Mineral wool
Synthetic gems
Metal refining
Iron
Aluminum
Copper
Alloys
Steel
Formed metal
Rolled
Forged
Cast metal
Heavy industry
Machinery
Conveyors
Heavy
Hydraulic
Machine tools
Power &amp; wind turbines
Automobiles
Other heavy vehicles
Aerospace &amp; space
Rail vehicles
Ships &amp; offshore platforms
Weapons
Utilities
Power
Electric
Gas distribution
Renewable
Water
Sewage
Waste management
Collection
Dumping
Hazardous
Recycling
Remediation
Telecom networks
Cable TV
Internet
Mobile
Satellite
Telephone
Construction
Buildings
Commercial
Industrial
Residential
Civil engineering
Bridges
Railways
Roads
Tunnels
Canals
Dams
Dredging
Harbors
Specialty trades
Cabinetry
Demolition
Electrical wiring
Elevators
HVAC
Painting and decorating
Plumbing
Site preparation
Service sector
Retail
Consumer goods sales
Creative
Advertising
Entertainment
Fashion
Film
Music
Publishing
Radio
Video games
Education
Engineering
Financial services
Insurance
Payment card
Healthcare
Hospitality
Innovation
Professional services
Real estate
Housing
Sex
Security
Software
Tourism
Information sector
Gaming
Online gambling
Information
Language
Leisure
Poverty
Sport
Related
Classification
Heavy
Machinery
Processes
 Category
 Commons
 Outline
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Economics_of_coffee&amp;oldid=968884558"
		Categories: Coffee industryAgricultural economicsInternational tradeHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 errors: missing periodicalCS1 maint: extra text: authors listArticles with limited geographic scope from January 2019Spoken articlesArticles with hAudio microformatsUse dmy dates from April 2012
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		Français中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 22 July 2020, at 03:15 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
