	Badge of Military Merit
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		  The Badge of Military Merit that was awarded to Elijah Churchill.
The Badge of Military Merit was a military award of the United States Armed Forces. It is largely considered America's first military decoration, and the second oldest in the world (after the Cross of St. George).[a] The award was only given to non-commissioned officers and privates. The Purple Heart is the official successor decoration of the Badge of Military Merit.[2]
Contents
1 History
1.1 First awards
2 Recipients
3 Status of original badges
4 Disuse
5 References
History[edit]
The Badge of Military Merit was first announced in General George Washington's general orders to the Continental Army issued on August 7, 1782, at the Headquarters in Newburgh. Designed by Washington in the form of a purple heart, it was intended as a military order for soldiers who exhibited, "not only instances of unusual gallantry in battle, but also extraordinary fidelity and essential service in any way."[3]
First awards[edit]
The writings of General Washington indicate that three badges, two Honorary Badges of Distinction[4] and a Badge of Military Merit, were created on August 7, 1782. This is thought to be the first time in modern history that military awards had been presented to common soldiers. The practice in Europe was to honor high-ranking officers who had achieved victory, rather than honoring common soldiers.[5] But in America, as General Washington said, the "road to glory in a patriot army and a free country is…open to all."[3] The French Royal Army had however started awarding the Medal of the Two Swords (Médaillon Des Deux Épées), a woven breast badge for enlisted soldiers in 1771. 
On August 7, 1782, Washington issued a general order detailing the badge:
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}The General ever desirous to cherish virtuous ambition in his soldiers, as well as to foster and encourage every species of Military merit, directs that whenever any singularly meritorious action is performed, the author of it shall be permitted to wear on his facings over the left breast, the figure of a heart in purple cloth, or silk, edged with narrow lace or binding. Not only instances of unusual gallantry, but also of extraordinary fidelity and essential service in any way shall meet with a due reward. Before this favour can be conferred on any man, the particular fact, or facts, on which it is to be grounded must be set forth to the Commander in chief accompanied with certificates from the Commanding officers of the regiment and brigade to which the Candadate [sic] for reward belonged, or other incontestable proofs, and upon granting it, the name and regiment of the person with the action so certified are to be enrolled in the book of merit which will be kept at the orderly office. Men who have merited this last distinction to be suffered to pass all guards and sentinals [sic] which officers are permitted to do. The road to glory in a patriot army and a free country is thus open to all. This order is also to have retrospect to the earliest stages of the war, and to be considered as a permanent one.[3][6][page needed]
Recipients[edit]
Most historians indicate that only four people received the Badge of Military Merit during the American Revolutionary War, all of them noncommissioned officers, and the only ones who received the award from General Washington himself. Those soldiers are as follows:
On May 3, 1783
Sergeant William Brown of the 5th Connecticut Regiment of the Connecticut Line[7]
Sergeant Elijah Churchill of the 2nd Regiment Light Dragoons[7]
On June 10, 1783
Sergeant Daniel Bissell of the 2nd Connecticut Regiment of the Connecticut Line[8]
On June 30, 1783
Sergeant Louis Marney, Col. Hazen's 2nd Canadian Regiment [9]
Period records, however, indicate that several others may have been awarded the Badge of Military Merit for service in the American Revolutionary War.[1]
Status of original badges[edit]
Brown's badge was found in a Deerfield, New Hampshire barn in the 1920s. There is disagreement in published sources about what became of Brown's badge after that. A badge on display at the American Independence Museum in Exeter, New Hampshire on behalf of the Society of the Cincinnati, New Hampshire Branch is stated to be Brown's.[10][11] Other sources say that Brown's badge was reported lost in 1924 while in the possession of Bishop Paul Matthews, and that the badge on display in Exeter belongs to a fourth, unknown recipient.[5][12]
As of 2015, Churchill's badge was owned by the National Temple Hill Association and on display at the New Windsor Cantonment State Historic Site.[13] Churchill's badge was rediscovered when H. E. Johnson, a Michigan farmer and one of Churchill's descendants, wrote to the National Temple Hill Association about the badge.[5]
Bissell's badge was reportedly lost when his house burned in July 1813.[5]
Disuse[edit]
After the Revolutionary War, the Badge of Military Merit fell into disuse although it was never officially abolished. In 1932, the United States War Department authorized the new Purple Heart Medal for soldiers who had previously received either a Wound Chevron or the Army Wound Ribbon. At that time, it was also determined that the Purple Heart Medal would be considered the official "successor decoration" to the Badge of Military Merit.[13]
References[edit]
Notes
^ Although the Fidelity Medallion is older, it was awarded for a specific event, so the Badge of Military Merit is generally considered the oldest United States military award.[1][better source needed]
Sources
^ a b Phoenix, J. (August 7, 2007). "The 225th Anniversary of the Purple Heart". West Point Association of Graduates. Retrieved October 15, 2009..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Wescott, Allen Pennell (Autumn 1941). "For Military Merit". Military Affairs. 5 (3): 211–214. doi:10.2307/2937597. ISSN 0026-3931. JSTOR 2937597.
^ a b c "The George Washington Papers at the Library of Congress, 1741–1799". George Washington, August 7, 1782, General Orders. August 7, 1782. Retrieved October 1, 2006.
^ Honorary Badges of distinction are to be conferred on the veteran Non-commissioned officers and soldiers of the army who have served more than three years with bravery, fidelity and good conduct; for this purpose a narrow piece of white cloath [sic] of an angular form is to be fixed to the left arm on the uniform Coat. Non commissioned officers and soldiers who have served with equal reputation more than six years are to be distinguished by two pieces of cloth set in parellel [sic] to each other in a simular [sic] form; should any who are not entitled to these honors have the insolence to assume the badges of them they shall be severely punished. On the other hand it is expected those gallant men who are thus designated will on all occasions be treated with particular confidence and consideration. George Washington's General Orders of August 7, 1782
^ a b c d Moran, Donald N. "Medals and Awards of The Revolution". Sons of Liberty Chapter: Sons of the American Revolution. Retrieved May 26, 2010.
^ Fitzpatrick, John C. The Writings of Washington from the Original Manuscript Sources, 1745–1799. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1931–1944; reprint, New York: Greenwood Press, 1970.
^ a b "The George Washington Papers at the Library of Congress, 1741–1799". George Washington, April 27, 1783, General Orders. April 27, 1783. Retrieved October 1, 2006.
^ "The George Washington Papers at the Library of Congress, 1741–1799". George Washington, June 8, 1783, General Orders. June 8, 1783. Retrieved October 1, 2006.
^  Marney, Louis. Revolutionary War Pensions, File: S 42924., p. 19. National Archives at College Park, College Park, MD.: National Archives Building, Washington, DC. 
^ Grosvenor, Gilbert Hovey (1944). Insignia and Decorations of the U.S. Armed Forces (Rev. ed.). Washington, D.C.: National Geographic Society. OCLC 569590.
^ Wescott, Allen Pennell (1941). "For Military Merit". Military Affairs. 5 (3): 211–214. doi:10.2307/2937597. JSTOR 2937597.
^ The Legacy of the Purple Heart. 2 (4th rev. ed.). Paducah, Kentucky: Turner Publishing Co. 2001. p. 19. ISBN 1-56311-723-1.
^ a b "Personal Decorations: Purple Heart". The Institute of Heraldry. Office of the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Army. Archived from the original on August 16, 2016. Retrieved July 14, 2016.
vteGeorge Washington
1st President of the United States, 1789–1797
Senior Officer of the Army, 1798–1799
Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, 1775–1783
Second Continental Congress, 1775
First Continental Congress, 1774
Military careerRevolutionary War
Military career
French and Indian War
Jumonville Glen
Battle of Fort Necessity
Battle of the Monongahela
Forbes Expedition
Washington and the American Revolution
Commander-in-chief, Continental Army
Aides-de-camp
Washington's headquarters
office and sleeping tent
Boston campaign
Siege of Boston
New York and New Jersey campaign
Delaware River crossing
Battle of Trenton
Battle of the Assunpink Creek
Battle of Princeton
Philadelphia campaign
Battle of Brandywine
Battle of Germantown
Battle of White Marsh
Valley Forge
Battle of Monmouth
Battles of Saratoga
Sullivan Expedition
Yorktown campaign
Siege of Yorktown
Culper spy ring
Newburgh Conspiracy
Newburgh letter
Resignation as commander-in-chief
Badge of Military Merit
Purple Heart
Washington Before Boston Medal
Horses: Nelson and Blueskin
Other U.S.founding events
1769 Virginia Association
Continental Association
1774 Fairfax Resolves
Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture
1785 Mount Vernon Conference
Chairman, 1787 Constitutional Convention
George Washington's political evolution
Presidency
1788–89 United States presidential election
Reception at Trenton
1792
inaugural bible
Title of "Mr. President"
Cabinet of the United States
Secretary of State
Attorney General
Secretary of the Treasury
Secretary of War
Judiciary Act of 1789
Nonintercourse Act
Whiskey Rebellion
Militia Acts of 1792
Coinage Act of 1792
United States Mint
Proclamation of Neutrality
Neutrality Act of 1794
Jay Treaty
Pinckney's Treaty
Slave Trade Act of 1794
Residence Act
Thanksgiving Proclamation
Farewell Address
State of the Union Address 1790
1791
1792
1793
1796
Cabinet
Federal judicial appointments
Views andpublic image
Presidential library
The Washington Papers
Religious views
Washington and slavery
Town Destroyer
Legacy
Life and homes
Early life
Birthplace
Ferry Farm boyhood home
Mount Vernon
Gristmill
Woodlawn Plantation
Samuel Osgood House, First Presidential Mansion
Alexander Macomb House, Second Presidential Mansion
President's House, Philadelphia
Germantown White House
Custis estate
Potomac Company
James River and Kanawha Canal
Mountain Road Lottery
Congressional Gold Medal
Thanks of Congress
President General of the Society of the Cincinnati
Washington College
Washington and Lee University
Electoral history of George Washington
Memorialsand depictions
Washington, D.C.
Washington state
Washington Monument
Mount Rushmore
Washington's Birthday
Purple Heart
The Apotheosis of Washington
George Washington (Houdon)
George Washington (Ceracchi)
George Washington (Canova)
George Washington (Greenough)
George Washington (Trumbull)
Washington Crossing the Delaware
The Passage of the Delaware
General George Washington at Trenton
Washington at Verplanck's Point
General George Washington Resigning His Commission
Surrender of Lord Cornwallis
Unfinished portrait
Lansdowne portrait
The Washington Family portrait
Washington at Princeton paintings
Reception at Trenton painting
Princeton Battle Monument
Point of View sculpture
Austin statue
Baltimore statue
Boston statue
Philadelphia statue
Portland statue
Washington, D.C. statue
West Point monument
Mexico City statue
National Garden of American Heroes
George Washington University
Washington University
Washington Masonic National Memorial
George Washington Memorial Parkway
George Washington Bridge
Washington and Jefferson National Forests
Washington Monument, Baltimore
Washington Square Park
Arch
List of memorials
U.S. Postage stamps
Washington-Franklin Issues
1932 bicentennial
Currency
Washington quarter
50 State Quarters
D.C. and territories quarters
America the Beautiful quarters
Washington dollar
Lafayette dollar
Silver bullion coins
Washington nickel
Mount Washington
Cultural depictions
George Washington (1984 miniseries
1986 sequel)
A More Perfect Union (1989 film)
We Fight to Be Free (2006 film)
Turn: Washington's Spies (2014–2017 series)
Washington (2020 miniseries)
Hamilton (film)
Related
Bibliography
List of articles
Founding Fathers of the United States
Republicanism
Federalist Party
Federalist Era
Virginia dynasty
Coat of arms
Cherry-tree anecdote
River Farm
Washington's Crossing
Washington–Rochambeau Revolutionary Route
1751 Barbados trip
Category
Syng inkstand
General of the Armies
American Philosophical Society
American Revolution
patriots
Betsy Ross flag
Mount Vernon Ladies' Association
Ancestryand family
Martha Washington (wife)
John Parke Custis (stepson)
George Washington Parke Custis (step-grandson, adopted son)
Eleanor Parke Custis (step-granddaughter, adopted daughter)
Augustine Washington (father)
Mary Ball Washington (mother)
Lawrence Washington (half-brother)
Augustine Washington Jr. (half-brother)
Betty Washington Lewis (sister)
Samuel Washington (brother)
John A. Washington (brother)
Charles Washington (brother)
Lawrence Washington (grandfather)
John Washington (great-grandfather)
Bushrod Washington (nephew)
John Adams →
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Badge_of_Military_Merit&amp;oldid=971376758"
		Categories: 1782 in the United StatesUnited States military badgesHidden categories: All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from August 2019CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyWikipedia articles needing page number citations from August 2020
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		FrançaisNorsk bokmål
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 5 August 2020, at 19:19 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
