	Penology
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Criminologyand penology
Theory
Anomie
Biosocial criminology
Broken windows
Collective efficacy
Crime analysis
Criminalization
Differential association
Deviance
Labeling theory
Psychopathy
Rational choice
Social control
Social disorganization
Social learning
Strain
Subculture
Symbolic interactionism
Victimology
Types of crime
Against humanity
Blue-collar
Corporate
Juvenile
Organized
Political
Public-order
State
State-corporate
Victimless
White-collar
War
Methods
Comparative
Profiling
Critical theory
Ethnography
Uniform Crime Reports
Crime mapping
Positivist school
Qualitative
Quantitative
BJS
NIBRS
Penology
Denunciation
Deterrence
Incapacitation
Trial
Prison
abolition
open
reform
Prisoner
Prisoner abuse
Prisoners' rights
Rehabilitation
Recidivism
Justice in penology
Participatory
Restorative
Retributive
Solitary confinement
Schools
Anarchist criminology
Chicago school
Classical school
Conflict criminology
Critical criminology
Environmental criminology
Feminist school
Integrative criminology
Italian school
Left realism
Marxist criminology
Neo-classical school
Positivist school
Postmodernist school
Right realism
Subfields
American
Anthropological
Biosocial criminology
Conflict
Criminology
Critical
Culture
 Cyber
Demography
Development
Environmental
Experimental
Organizational
Political
Public
Radical criminology
Browse
Index
Journals
Organizations
People
vte
Penology (from "penal", Latin poena, "punishment" and the Greek suffix -logia, "study of") is a sub-component of criminology that deals with the philosophy and practice[1][2][3] of various societies in their attempts to repress criminal activities, and satisfy public opinion via an appropriate treatment regime for persons convicted of criminal offences.
The Oxford English Dictionary defines penology as "the study of the punishment of crime and prison management," and in this sense it is equivalent with corrections.[4]
Penology is concerned with the effectiveness of those social processes devised and adopted for the prevention of crime, via the repression or inhibition of criminal intent via the fear of punishment. The study of penology therefore deals with the treatment of prisoners  and the subsequent rehabilitation of convicted criminals. It also encompasses aspects of probation (rehabilitation of offenders in the community) as well as penitentiary science relating to the secure detention and retraining of offenders committed to secure institutions.
Penology concerns many topics and theories, including those concerning prisons (prison reform, prisoner abuse, prisoners' rights, and recidivism), as well as theories of the purposes of punishment (deterrence, retribution, incapacitation and rehabilitation). Contemporary penology concerns itself mainly with criminal rehabilitation and prison management. The word seldom applies to theories and practices of punishment in less formal environments such as parenting, school and workplace correctional measures.
Contents
1 History
2 See also
3 References
4 Further reading
5 External links
History[edit]
  Cesare Beccaria, Dei delitti e delle pene
  Dei delitti e delle pene (1766), frontpage, 6th edition.
Further information: Prison reform
Historical theories were based on the notion that fearful consequences would discourage potential offenders. An example of this principle can be found in the Draconian law of Ancient Greece and the Bloody Code which persisted in Renaissance England, when (at various times) capital punishment was prescribed for over 200 offenses. Similarly, certain hudud offenses under Sharia hadith tradition may incur fearful penalties.
Modern theories of the punishment and rehabilitation of offenders are broadly based on principles articulated in the seminal pamphlet "On Crimes and Punishments" published by Cesare, Marquis of Beccaria in 1764. They center on the concept of proportionality. In this respect, they differ from many previous systems of punishment, for example, England's Bloody Code, under which the penalty of theft had been the same regardless of the value stolen, giving rise to the English expression "It is as well to be hanged for a sheep or a lamb". Subsequent development of the ideas of Beccaria made non-lethal punishment more acceptable. Consequently, convicted prisoners had to be re-integrated into society when their punishment was complete.[5]
Penologists have consequently evolved occupational and psychological education programs for offenders detained in prison, and a range of community service and probation orders which entail guidance and aftercare of the offender within the community. The importance of inflicting some measure of punishment on those persons who breach the law is however maintained in order to maintain social order and to moderate public outrage which might provoke appeals for cruel vengeance.[clarification needed] 
In modern times Penology has shifted from a retributive based punishment to a form of community corrections. "Community corrections involves the management and supervision of offenders in the community. These offenders are serving court-imposed orders either as an alternative to imprisonment or as a condition of their release on parole from prison. This means they must report regularly to their community corrections officer and may have to participate in unpaid community work and rehabilitation programs.[6]"
See also[edit]
Auburn System
Zebulon Brockway
Elmira Correctional Facility
Her Majesty's Prison Service
Panopticon
Penal transportation
Prison reform
References[edit]
^ Rajendra Kumar Sharma (1 January 1998). Criminology And Penology. Atlantic Publishers &amp; Dist. pp. 2 ff. ISBN 978-81-7156-754-6. Retrieved 2 March 2013..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Shlomo Giora Shoham; Ori Beck; Martin Kett (8 October 2007). International Handbook of Penology and Criminal Justice. CRC Press. ISBN 978-1-4200-5388-3. Retrieved 2 March 2013.
^ 林山田 (1992). 刑罰學. 臺灣商務印書館. ISBN 978-957-05-0435-4. Retrieved 2 March 2013.
^ Todd R. Clear (1994). Harm in American penology: offenders, victims, and their communities. SUNY Press. p. 15. ISBN 978-0-7914-2174-1.
^ Marcello Maestro, "A pioneer for the abolition of capital punishment: Cesare Beccaria." Journal of the History of Ideas 34.3 (1973): 463-468. online
^ Corrections Prisons Parole, Department of Justice. "Community corrections". www.corrections.vic.gov.au. Archived from the original on 2019-04-28. Retrieved 2018-10-25.
Further reading[edit]
Diiulio, John J., Governing Prisons: A Comparative Study of Correctional Management, Simon and Schuster, 1990. ISBN 0-02-907883-0
External links[edit]
The Florida State University College of Criminology and Criminal Justice
CrimLinks UK based site
vteLawCore subjects
Administrative law
Civil law
Constitutional law
Contract
Criminal law
Deed
Equity
Evidence
International law
Law of obligations
Procedure
Civil
Criminal
Property law
Public law
Restitution
Statutory law
Tort
Other subjects
Agricultural law
Aviation law
Amnesty law
Banking law
Bankruptcy
Commercial law
Competition law
Conflict of laws
Construction law
Consumer protection
Corporate law
Cyberlaw
Election law
Energy law
Entertainment law
Environmental law
Family law
Financial law
Financial regulation
Health law
History of the legal profession
History of the American legal profession
Immigration law
Intellectual property
International criminal law
International human rights
International slavery laws
Jurimetrics
Labour
Law of war
Legal archaeology
Legal fiction
Maritime law
Media law
Military law
Probate
Estate
Will and testament
Product liability
Public international law
Space law
Sports law
Tax law
Transport law
Trust law
Unenforced law
Women in law
Sources of law
Charter
Code
Constitution
Custom
Divine right
Divine law
Human rights
Natural law
Natural and legal rights
Case law
Precedent
Law making
Ballot measure
Codification
Decree
Edict
Executive order
Proclamation
Legislation
Delegated legislation
General executory decree
Regulation
Rulemaking
Promulgation
Repeal
Treaty
Concordat
Statutory law
Statute
Act of Parliament
Act of Congress (US)
Legal systems
Civil law
Common law
Chinese law
Legal pluralism
Religious law
Canon law
Hindu law
Jain law
Jewish law
Sharia
Roman law
Socialist law
Statutory law
Xeer
Yassa
Legal theory
Contract theory
Critical legal studies
Comparative law
Feminist
Fundamental theory of canon law
Law and economics
Legal formalism
History
International legal theory
Principle of legality
Rule of law
Sociology
Jurisprudence
Adjudication
Administration of justice
Criminal justice
Court-martial
Dispute resolution
Fiqh
Lawsuit/Litigation
Legal opinion
Legal remedy
Judge
Justice of the peace
Magistrate
Judgment
Judicial review
Jurisdiction
Jury
Justice
Practice of law
Attorney
Barrister
Counsel
Lawyer
Legal representation
Prosecutor
Solicitor
Question of fact
Question of law
Trial
Trial advocacy
Trier of fact
Verdict
Legal institutions
Bureaucracy
The bar
The bench
Civil society
Court
Election commission
Executive
Judiciary
Law enforcement
Legal education
Law school
Legislature
Military
Police
Political party
Tribunal
Category
Index
Outline
Portal
Authority control 
GND: 4818929-7
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Penology&amp;oldid=977210966"
		Categories: PenologyCriminal lawCrimeHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2011Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		العربيةBân-lâm-gúБългарскиBosanskiČeštinaCymraegDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어Հայերենहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaעבריתLietuviųമലയാളംNederlandsNorsk bokmålPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSvenskaТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнська中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 7 September 2020, at 15:19 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
