	United States Department of Homeland Security
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		"DHS" redirects here. For other uses, see DHS (disambiguation).
United States federal department
United States Department of Homeland SecuritySeal of the U.S. Department of Homeland SecurityFlag of the U.S. Department of Homeland SecurityDHS headquarters in Washington D.C.Agency overviewFormedNovember 25, 2002; 17 years ago (2002-11-25)JurisdictionUnited StatesHeadquartersSt. Elizabeths West Campus, Washington, D.C., U.S.38°51′17″N 77°00′00″W﻿ / ﻿38.8547°N 77.0000°W﻿ / 38.8547; -77.0000Coordinates: 38°51′17″N 77°00′00″W﻿ / ﻿38.8547°N 77.0000°W﻿ / 38.8547; -77.0000Employees240,000 (2018)[1]Annual budget$51.672 billion (FY 2020)[2]Agency executivesChad Wolf, Acting SecretaryKen Cuccinelli, Acting Deputy SecretaryChild agenciesUnited States Citizenship and Immigration ServicesU.S. Customs and Border ProtectionFederal Emergency Management AgencyU.S. Immigration and Customs EnforcementTransportation Security AdministrationUnited States Coast Guard (during times of peace)Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security AgencyUnited States Secret ServiceFederal Law Enforcement Training CenterFederal Protective ServiceCitizenship &amp; Immigration Services OmbudsmenDomestic Nuclear Detection OfficeManagement DirectorateOffice for Civil Rights &amp; Civil LibertiesOffice of General CounselOffice of Health AffairsOffice of Intelligence &amp; AnalysisOffice of Legislative AffairsOffice of Operations CoordinationOffice of Partnership &amp; EngagementOffice of PolicyOffice of Public AffairsOffice of the Inspector GeneralPrivacy OfficeScience &amp; Technology DirectorateWebsitewww.dhs.gov"The DHS March"
The United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is the U.S. federal executive department responsible for public security, roughly comparable to the interior or home ministries of other countries. Its stated missions involve anti-terrorism, border security, immigration and customs, cyber security, and disaster prevention and management.[3] It began operations in 2003 making it the youngest U.S. cabinet department. 
The department was formed as a result of the Homeland Security Act, enacted the previous year in response to the 9/11 attacks.
With more than 240,000 employees,[1] DHS is the third largest Cabinet department, after the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs.[4] Homeland security policy is coordinated at the White House by the Homeland Security Council. Other agencies with significant homeland security responsibilities include the Departments of Health and Human Services, Justice, and Energy.
Contents
1 History
1.1 Creation
1.2 Changes under Michael Chertoff
1.3 Changes under Kirstjen Nielsen
2 Function
3 Structure
4 Budget
5 National Terrorism Advisory System
6 Seal
7 Headquarters
8 Disaster preparedness and response
8.1 Congressional budgeting effects
8.2 Ready.gov
8.3 National Incident Management System
8.4 National Response Framework
8.5 Surge Capacity Force
9 Cyber-security
10 Expenditures
10.1 Audit of expenditures
11 Criticism
11.1 Excess, waste, and ineffectiveness
11.2 Data mining (ADVISE)
11.3 Fusion centers
11.4 Mail interception
11.5 Employee morale
11.6 MIAC report
11.7 2009 Virginia terrorism threat assessment
11.8 Freedom of Information Act processing performance
11.9 Fourteen Words slogan and "88" reference
11.10 "Abolish DHS"
11.11 Portland protests
12 See also
13 References
14 External links
History[edit]
Creation[edit]
Play media  A video released in 2016 by the DHS, detailing its duties and responsibilities
In response to the September 11 attacks, President George W. Bush announced the establishment of the Office of Homeland Security (OHS) to coordinate "homeland security" efforts. The office was headed by former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge, who assumed the title of Assistant to the President for Homeland Security. The official announcement stated:
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}The mission of the Office will be to develop and coordinate the implementation of a comprehensive national strategy to secure the United States from terrorist threats or attacks. The Office will coordinate the executive branch's efforts to detect, prepare for, prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks within the United States.[5]
Ridge began his duties as OHS director on October 8, 2001.[citation needed]
On November 25, 2002, the Homeland Security Act established the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to consolidate U.S. executive branch organizations related to "homeland security" into a single Cabinet agency. The Gilmore Commission supported by much of Congress and John Bolton helped further solidify need for the department. The DHS incorporated the following 22 agencies:[6]
Original agency
Original department
New agency or office after transfer
U.S. Customs Service
Treasury
U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionU.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Immigration and Naturalization Service
Justice
U.S. Customs and Border ProtectionU.S. Immigration and Customs EnforcementU.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Federal Protective Service
General Services Administration
National Protection and Programs Directorate
Transportation Security Administration
Transportation
Transportation Security Administration
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
Treasury
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service(part)
Agriculture
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Federal Emergency Management Agency
none
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Strategic National StockpileNational Disaster Medical System
Health and Human Services
Originally assigned to FEMA, Returned to HHS, July 2004
Nuclear Incident Response Team
Energy
Responsibilities distributed within FEMA
Domestic Emergency Support Team
Justice
Responsibilities distributed within FEMA
Center for Domestic Preparedness
Justice (FBI)
Responsibilities distributed within FEMA
CBRN Countermeasures Programs
Energy
Science &amp; Technology Directorate
Environmental Measurements Laboratory
Energy
Science &amp; Technology Directorate
National Biological WarfareDefense Analysis Center
Defense
Science &amp; Technology Directorate
Plum Island Animal Disease Center
Agriculture
Science &amp; Technology Directorate
Federal Computer Incident Response Center
General Services Administration
US-CERT, Office of Cybersecurity and CommunicationsNational Programs and Predaredness Directorate
National Communications System
Defense
Office of Cybersecurity and CommunicationsNational Programs and Predaredness Directorate
National Infrastructure Protection Center
Justice (FBI)
Office of Operations CoordinationOffice of Infrastructure Protection
Energy Security and Assurance Program
Energy
Office of Infrastructure Protection
U.S. Coast Guard
Transportation
U.S. Coast Guard
U.S. Secret Service
Treasury
U.S. Secret Service
According to border theorist Peter Andreas, the creation of DHS constituted the most significant government reorganization since the Cold War,[7] and the most substantial reorganization of federal agencies since the National Security Act of 1947, which placed the different military departments under a secretary of defense and created the National Security Council and Central Intelligence Agency. DHS also constitutes the most diverse merger of federal functions and responsibilities, incorporating 22 government agencies into a single organization.[8] The founding of the DHS also marked a change in American thought towards threats.
Introducing the term "homeland" centers attention on a population that needs to be protected not only against emergencies such as natural disasters but also against diffuse threats from individuals who are non-native to the United States.[9]
Prior to the signing of the bill, controversy about its adoption was focused on whether the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency should be incorporated in part or in whole (neither were included). The bill was also controversial for the presence of unrelated "riders", as well as for eliminating certain union-friendly civil service and labor protections for department employees. Without these protections, employees could be expeditiously reassigned or dismissed on grounds of security, incompetence or insubordination, and DHS would not be required to notify their union representatives.
  A U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer addresses Dick Cheney (center), then Vice President of the United States; Saxby Chambliss (center right), a U.S. Senator from Georgia; and Michael Chertoff (far right), then United States Secretary of Homeland Security, in 2005
The plan stripped 180,000 government employees of their union rights.[10] In 2002, Bush officials argued that the September 11 attacks made the proposed elimination of employee protections imperative.[11]
Congress ultimately passed the Homeland Security Act of 2002 without the union-friendly measures, and President Bush signed the bill into law on November 25, 2002. It was the largest U.S. government reorganization in the 50 years since the United States Department of Defense was created.
Tom Ridge was named secretary on January 24, 2003, and began naming his chief deputies. DHS officially began operations on January 24, 2003, but most of the department's component agencies were not transferred into the new Department until March 1.[5]
  President George W. Bush signs the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2004 on October 1, 2003.
After establishing the basic structure of DHS and working to integrate its components and get the department functioning, Ridge announced his resignation on November 30, 2004, following the re-election of President Bush. Bush initially nominated former New York City Police Department commissioner Bernard Kerik as his successor, but on December 10, Kerik withdrew his nomination, citing personal reasons and saying it "would not be in the best interests" of the country for him to pursue the post.
Changes under Michael Chertoff[edit]
On January 11, 2005, President Bush nominated federal judge Michael Chertoff to succeed Ridge. Chertoff was confirmed on February 15, 2005, by a vote of 98–0 in the U.S. Senate, and was sworn in the same day.[5]
In February 2005, DHS and the Office of Personnel Management issued rules relating to employee pay and discipline for a new personnel system named MaxHR. The Washington Post said that the rules would allow DHS "to override any provision in a union contract by issuing a department-wide directive" and would make it "difficult, if not impossible, for unions to negotiate over arrangements for staffing, deployments, technology and other workplace matters".[11]
In August 2005, U.S. District Judge Rosemary M. Collyer blocked the plan on the grounds that it did not ensure collective-bargaining rights for DHS employees.[11]
A federal appeals court ruled against DHS in 2006; pending a final resolution to the litigation, Congress's fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill for DHS provided no funding for the proposed new personnel system.[11]
DHS announced in early 2007 that it was retooling its pay and performance system and retiring the name "MaxHR".[5]
In a February 2008 court filing, DHS said that it would no longer pursue the new rules, and that it would abide by the existing civil service labor-management procedures. A federal court issued an order closing the case.[11]
Changes under Kirstjen Nielsen[edit]
On November 16, 2018, President Trump signed the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2018 into law, which elevated the mission of the former-DHS National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) within DHS and established the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA).[12] In fiscal year 2018, DHS was allocated a net discretionary budget of $47.716 billion.[2] 
Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resigned on April 7, 2019,[13] effective April 10.[14] By law (6 U.S.C. §113(g)), Undersecretary for Management Claire Grady was to become the acting Secretary of Homeland Security.[15] On April 7, President Donald J. Trump designated the current U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan as acting Secretary;[16] that had lingering questions of legality resolved[17] after Trump forced Grady to resign on April 9.[18] McAleenan then named David Pekoske, who currently also serves as the TSA Administrator,[19] as the acting Deputy Secretary.[20] On November 13, 2019, Chad Wolf became the Acting Secretary and named Ken Cuccinelli as the Senior Official Performing the Duties of the Deputy Secretary[21].
Function[edit]
  Organizational chart showing the chain of command among the top-level officials in the Department of Homeland Security, as of July 17, 2008
Whereas the Department of Defense is charged with military actions abroad, the Department of Homeland Security works in the civilian sphere to protect the United States within, at, and outside its borders. Its stated goal is to prepare for, prevent, and respond to domestic emergencies, particularly terrorism.[22] On March 1, 2003, DHS absorbed the U.S. Customs Service and Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and assumed its duties. In doing so, it divided the enforcement and services functions into two separate and new agencies: Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Citizenship and Immigration Services. The investigative divisions and intelligence gathering units of the INS and Customs Service were merged forming Homeland Security Investigations, the primary investigative arm of DHS. Additionally, the border enforcement functions of the INS, including the U.S. Border Patrol, the U.S. Customs Service, and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service were consolidated into a new agency under DHS: U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Federal Protective Service falls under the National Protection and Programs Directorate.
Structure[edit]
  U.S. CBP Office of Field Operations agent checking the authenticity of a travel document at an international airport using a stereo microscope
The Department of Homeland Security is headed by the Secretary of Homeland Security with the assistance of the Deputy Secretary. The department contains the components listed below.[23] 
Subordinate agency
Title of head or leader
Incumbent
Management Directorate
Under Secretary
Randolph D. "Tex" Alles (acting)
Science and Technology Directorate
Under Secretary
William Bryan (acting)
Office of Intelligence and Analysis
Under Secretary
none as of August 3, 2020[24]
Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans
Under Secretary
Chad Wolf
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
Director
Mark Koumans (acting)[25][26]
United States Coast Guard
Commandant
Admiral Karl L. Schultz[27]
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Commissioner
Mark A. Morgan (acting)
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Director
Christopher Krebs
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Administrator
Pete Gaynor
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Director
Thomas J. Walters[28]
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Director
Matthew Albence (acting)
United States Secret Service
Director
James M. Murray
Transportation Security Administration
Administrator
David Pekoske
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office
Assistant Secretary
Gary Rasicot (acting)
Office of Legislative Affairs
Assistant Secretary
Christine M. Ciccone
Office of Partnership and Engagement
Assistant Secretary
John H. Hill
Office of Public Affairs
Assistant Secretary
Heather N. Swift (acting)
Joint Requirements Council
Executive Director
Joseph D. Wawro
Office of Operations Coordination
Director
Christopher J. Tomney
Privacy Office
Chief Privacy Officer
Jonathan Cantor (acting)
Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman
Director
Julie Kirchner
Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties
Officer
Cameron Quinn
Office of the Inspector General
Inspector General
Joseph V. Cuffari[29]
Agencies
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services: Processes and examines citizenship, residency, and asylum requests from aliens.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection: Law enforcement agency that enforces U.S. laws along its international borders (air, land, and sea) including its enforcement of U.S. immigration, customs, and agriculture laws while at and patrolling between all U.S. ports-of-entry.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: Law enforcement agency divided into two bureaus:
Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) investigates violations of more than 400 U.S. laws and gathers intelligence on national and international criminal activities that threaten the security of the homeland (Homeland Security Investigations); and
Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) enforces administrative violations of the Immigration and Nationality Act by detaining, deporting, and removing violators of United States immigration law.
Transportation Security Administration: Responsible for aviation security (domestic and international, most notably conducting passenger screenings at airports), as well as land and water transportation security
United States Coast Guard: Military service responsible for law enforcement, maritime security, national defense, maritime mobility, and protection of natural resources.[30]
United States Secret Service: Law enforcement agency tasked with two distinct and critical national security missions:
Investigative Mission – The investigative mission of the USSS is to safeguard the payment and financial systems of the United States from a wide range of financial and electronic-based crimes.
Protective Mission – The protective mission of the USSS is to ensure the safety of the President of the United States, the Vice President of the United States, their immediate families, and foreign heads of state.
Federal Emergency Management Agency: agency that oversees the federal government's response to natural disasters like earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, forest fires.
Passports for U.S. citizens are issued by the U.S. Department of State, not the Department of Homeland Security.
Advisory groups:
Homeland Security Advisory Council: State and local government, first responders, private sector, and academics
National Infrastructure Advisory Council: Advises on security of public and private information systems
Homeland Security Science and Technology Advisory Committee: Advise the Under Secretary for Science and Technology.
Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council: Coordinate infrastructure protection with private sector and other levels of government
Interagency Coordinating Council on Emergency Preparedness and Individuals with Disabilities
Task Force on New Americans: "An inter-agency effort to help immigrants learn English, embrace the common core of American civic culture, and become fully American."
Other components:
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office: Counter attempts by terrorists or other threat actors to carry out an attack against the United States or its interests using a weapon of mass destruction. Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen established the CWMD Office in December 2017 by consolidating primarily the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office and a majority of the Office of Health Affairs, as well as other DHS elements.
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center: Interagency law enforcement training facilities located in Georgia, New Mexico, and South Carolina.
National Protection and Programs Directorate: risk-reduction, encompassing both physical and virtual threats and their associated human elements.
Federal Protective Service: Federal law enforcement and security agency that protects and investigates crimes against U.S. federal buildings, properties, assets, and federal government interests.
National Communications System
Directorate for Science and Technology: Research and development
Directorate for Management: Responsible for internal budgets, accounting, performance monitoring, and human resources
Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans: Long-range policy planning and coordination
Office of Immigration Statistics
Office of Intelligence and Analysis: Identify and assess threats based on intelligence from various agencies
Office of Operations Coordination: Monitor domestic security situation on a daily basis, coordinate activities with state and local authorities and private sector infrastructure
Office of the Secretary includes the Privacy Office, Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Office of Inspector General, Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman, Office of Legislative Affairs, Office of the General Counsel, Office of Public Affairs, Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement (CNE), Office of the Executive Secretariat (ESEC), and the Military Advisor's Office.
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
In an August 5, 2002 speech, President Bush said: "We are fighting ... to secure freedom in the homeland."[31] Prior to the creation of DHS, U.S. Presidents had referred to the U.S. as "the nation" or "the republic" and to its internal policies as "domestic".[32] Also unprecedented was the use, from 2002, of the phrase "the homeland" by White House spokespeople.[32]
Budget[edit]
The DHD oversees a budget for Fiscal Year 2020 of $92.1 billion. The budget authorization is broken down as follows:[citation needed]
Agency
Funding (in millions)
Employees (in FTEs)
Management
Office of the Secretary
128.9
Management Directorate
1557.3
Operations and Analysis
276.6
Office of the Inspector General
170.2
SUBTOTAL
2,133
Law Enforcement
Transportation Security Administration
7,785.6
Secret Service
2574
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
3168.1
Countering Weapons of Mass Destructions Office
423.2
SUBTOTAL
13,950.9
Immigration and Border Security
Customs and Border Protection
20,850.4
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement
9,308.6
Coast Guard
11,340
Citizenship and Immigration Services
4,840.4
SUBTOTAL
46,339.4
Emergency Management
Federal Emergency Management Agency
28,708.8
SUBTOTAL
28,708.8
Technology and Training
Science and Technology Directorate
585.1
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
350.9
SUBTOTAL
936
TOTAL
$92,068.1
National Terrorism Advisory System[edit]
In 2011, the Department of Homeland Security phased out the old Homeland Security Advisory System, replacing it with a two-level National Terrorism Advisory System. The system has two types of advisories: Alerts and Bulletins. NTAS Bulletins permit the secretary to communicate critical terrorism information that, while not necessarily indicative of a specific threat against the United States, can reach homeland security partners or the public quickly, thereby allowing recipients to implement necessary protective measures. Alerts are issued when there is specific and credible information of a terrorist threat against the United States. Alerts themselves have two levels: Elevated and Imminent. An Elevated Alert is issued when there is credible information about an attack but only general information about timing or a target. An Imminent Alert is issued when the threat is very specific and impending in the very near term.
  The Homeland Security Advisory System scale
On March 12, 2002, the Homeland Security Advisory System, a color-coded terrorism risk advisory scale, was created as the result of a Presidential Directive to provide a "comprehensive and effective means to disseminate information regarding the risk of terrorist acts to Federal, State, and local authorities and to the American people". Many procedures at government facilities are tied into the alert level; for example a facility may search all entering vehicles when the alert is above a certain level. Since January 2003, it has been administered in coordination with DHS; it has also been the target of frequent jokes and ridicule on the part of the administration's detractors about its ineffectiveness. After resigning, Tom Ridge stated that he did not always agree with the threat level adjustments pushed by other government agencies.[33]
In January 2003, the office[clarification needed] was merged into the Department of Homeland Security and the White House Homeland Security Council, both of which were created by the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The Homeland Security Council, similar in nature to the National Security Council, retains a policy coordination and advisory role and is led by the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security.[5]
As of January 13, 2011, the DHS advised the American public of an 'elevated national threat' level, recommending that all Americans 'should establish an emergency preparedness kit and emergency plan for themselves and their family, and stay informed about what to do during an emergency'.[34]
Seal[edit]
Main article: Seal of the United States Department of Homeland Security
  Seal of the Department of Homeland Security.
A DHS press release dated June 6, 2003[35] explains the seal as follows:
The seal is symbolic of the Department's mission – to prevent attacks and protect Americans – on the land, in the sea and in the air. In the center of the seal, a graphically styled white American eagle appears in a circular blue field. The eagle's outstretched wings break through an inner red ring into an outer white ring that contains the words "U.S. DEPARTMENT OF" in the top half and "HOMELAND SECURITY" in the bottom half in a circular placement. The eagle's wings break through the inner circle into the outer ring to suggest that the Department of Homeland Security will break through traditional bureaucracy and perform government functions differently. In the tradition of the Great Seal of the United States, the eagle's talon on the left holds an olive branch with 13 leaves and 13 seeds while the eagle's talon on the right grasps 13 arrows.
Centered on the eagle's breast is a shield divided into three sections containing elements that represent the American homeland – air, land, and sea. The top element, a dark blue sky, contains 22 stars representing the original 22 entities that have come together to form the department. The left shield element contains white mountains behind a green plain underneath a light blue sky. The right shield element contains four wave shapes representing the oceans alternating light and dark blue separated by white lines.
The seal was developed with input from senior DHS leadership, employees, and the U.S. Commission on Fine Arts. The Ad Council – which partners with DHS on its Ready.gov campaign – and the consulting company Landor Associates were responsible for graphic design and maintaining heraldic integrity.
Headquarters[edit]
  The Nebraska Avenue Complex, DHS headquarters from its inception until April 2019
  Nebraska Avenue Complex in 2016.
Since its inception, the department has had its temporary headquarters in Washington, D.C.'s Nebraska Avenue Complex, a former naval facility. The 38-acre (15 ha) site, across from American University, has 32 buildings comprising 566,000 square feet (52,600 m2) of administrative space.[36] In early 2007, the department submitted a $4.1 billion plan to Congress to consolidate its 60-plus Washington-area offices into a single headquarters complex at the St. Elizabeths Hospital campus in Anacostia, Southeast Washington, D.C. The earliest DHS would begin moving to St. Elizabeths is 2012.[37]
The move is being championed by District of Columbia officials because of the positive economic impact it will have on historically depressed Anacostia. The move has been criticized by historic preservationists, who claim the revitalization plans will destroy dozens of historic buildings on the campus.[38] Community activists have criticized the plans because the facility will remain walled off and have little interaction with the surrounding area.[39]
On January 8, 2009, the National Capital Planning Commission approved the Department of Homeland Security's plans to move into the campus of St. Elizabeths Hospital.[40]
In February 2015 the General Services Administration said that the site would open in 2021.[41]
DHS headquarters staff began moving to St. Elizabeths in April 2019 after the completion of the Center Building renovation.[42][43]
Disaster preparedness and response[edit]
Congressional budgeting effects[edit]
During a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing on the reauthorization of DHS, Elaine Duke, deputy secretary of DHS, said there is a weariness and anxiety within DHS about the repeated congressional efforts to agree to a long-term spending plan, which has resulted in several threats to shutdown the federal government. "Shutdowns are disruptive," Duke said. She said the "repeated failure on a longtime spending plan resulting in short-term continuing resolutions (CRs) has caused "angst" among the department's 240,000 employees in the weeks leading up to the CRs."[44] The uncertainty about funding hampers DHS's ability to pursue major projects and it takes away attention and manpower from important priorities. Seventy percent of DHS employees are considered essential and are not furloughed during government shutdowns.[44]
Ready.gov[edit]
  Ready.gov program logo
Soon after the formation of Department of Homeland Security, the department worked with the Ad Council to launch the Ready Campaign, a national public service advertising (PSA) campaign to educate and empower Americans to prepare for and respond to emergencies including natural and man-made disasters. With pro bono creative support from the Martin Agency of Richmond, Virginia, the campaign website "Ready.gov" and materials were conceived in March 2002 and launched in February 2003, just before the launch of the Iraq War.[45][46][47] One of the first announcements that garnered widespread public attention to this campaign was one by Tom Ridge in which he stated that in the case of a chemical attack, citizens should use duct tape and plastic sheeting to build a homemade bunker, or "sheltering in place" to protect themselves.[48][49] As a result, the sales of duct tape skyrocketed and DHS was criticized for being too alarmist.[50]
On March 1, 2003, the Federal Emergency Management Agency was absorbed into the DHS, and in fall of 2008, took over coordination of the campaign. The Ready Campaign and its Spanish-language version Listo.gov asks individuals to build an emergency supply kit,[51] make a family emergency plan[52] and be informed about the different types of emergencies that can occur and how to respond.[53] The campaign messages have been promoted through television, radio, print, outdoor and web PSAs,[54] as well as brochures, toll-free phone lines and the English and Spanish language websites Ready.gov and Listo.gov.
The general campaign aims to reach all Americans, but targeted resources are also available via "Ready Business" for small- to medium-sized business  and "Ready Kids" for parents and teachers of children ages 8–12. In 2015, the campaign also launched a series of PSAs to help the whole community,[55] people with disabilities and others with access and functional needs prepare for emergencies, which included open captioning, a certified deaf interpreter and audio descriptions for viewers who are blind or have low vision.[56]
National Incident Management System[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (December 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
On March 1, 2004, the National Incident Management System (NIMS) was created. The stated purpose was to provide a consistent incident management approach for federal, state, local, and tribal governments. Under Homeland Security Presidential Directive-5, all federal departments were required to adopt the NIMS and to use it in their individual domestic incident management and emergency prevention, preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation program and activities.
National Response Framework[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (December 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In December 2004, the National Response Plan (NRP) was created, in an attempt to align federal coordination structures, capabilities, and resources into a unified, all-discipline, and all-hazards approach to domestic incident management. The NRP was built on the template of the NIMS.
On January 22, 2008, the National Response Framework was published in the Federal Register as an updated replacement of the NRP, effective March 22, 2008.
Surge Capacity Force[edit]
The Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act directs the DHS Secretary to designate employees from throughout the department to staff a Surge Capacity Force (SCF). During a declared disaster, the DHS Secretary will determine if SCF support is necessary. The secretary will then authorize FEMA to task and deploy designated personnel from DHS components and other Federal Executive Agencies to respond to extraordinary disasters.[57]
Cyber-security[edit]
See also: Cyber-security regulation
The DHS National Cyber Security Division (NCSD) is responsible for the response system, risk management program, and requirements for cyber-security in the U.S. The division is home to US-CERT operations and the National Cyber Alert System.[58][59] The DHS Science and Technology Directorate helps government and private end-users transition to new cyber-security capabilities. This directorate also funds the Cyber Security Research and Development Center, which identifies and prioritizes research and development for NCSD.[59] The center works on the Internet's routing infrastructure (the SPRI program) and Domain Name System (DNSSEC), identity theft and other online criminal activity (ITTC), Internet traffic and networks research (PREDICT datasets and the DETER testbed), Department of Defense and HSARPA exercises (Livewire and Determined Promise), and wireless security in cooperation with Canada.[60]
On October 30, 2009, DHS opened the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center. The center brings together government organizations responsible for protecting computer networks and networked infrastructure.[61]
In January 2017, DHS officially designated state-run election systems as critical infrastructure. The designation made it easier for state and local election officials to get cybersecurity help from the federal government. In October 2017, DHS convened a Government Coordinating Council (GCC) for the Election Infrastructure Subsection with representatives from various state and federal agencies such as the Election Assistance Commission and National Association of Secretaries of State.[62]
Expenditures[edit]
In the United States Federal Budget for 2010, entitled 'A New Era of Responsibility', the DHS was allocated a discretionary budget of $42.7 billion (financial year 2009: $40.1 billion).[63] The end-of-year
DHS Annual Financial Report for financial year 2010 showed a net cost of operations of $56.4 billion (FY 2009, restated: $49.9 billion), out of total budgetary resources of $83.2 billion (FY 2009, restated: $85.2 billion).[64] The components with the highest net cost were US Coast Guard ($12.1 billion), U.S. Customs and Border Protection ($11.6 billion), and Federal Emergency Management Agency ($10.5 billion).[64] Revenues of $10.4 billion were generated in the year (FY 2009, restated: $9.8 billion).[64]
According to The Washington Post, the DHS "has given $31 billion in grants since 2003 to state and local governments for homeland security and to improve their ability to find and protect against terrorists, including $3.8 billion in 2010."[65]
Audit of expenditures[edit]
The DHS independent auditor is KPMG, one of the Big Four audit firms.[66] Due to the level of material weaknesses identified, KPMG was unable to audit the DHS financial statements for FY 2010.[66] KPMG was unable to express an audit opinion on the FY 2009,[67] FY 2008,[68] FY 2007,[69] FY 2005,[70] and FY 2003[71] financial statements. Attempts to access the reports for FY 2006 and FY 2004 within the 'information for citizens' portal met with a 404 error.[72] The message from the DHS chief financial officer in the FY 2010 report states "This Annual Financial Report (AFR) is our principal financial statement of accountability to the President, Congress and the American public. The AFR gives a comprehensive view of the Department's financial activities and demonstrates the Department's stewardship of taxpayer dollars."[73] The message from the DHS chief financial officer concludes "I am extremely proud of the Department's accomplishments  ... we will continue to build upon our successes."[73] The Secretary of Homeland Security endorsed this message, saying that the DHS is "continuing to be responsible stewards of taxpayer resources. The scope of our mission is broad, challenging, and vital to the security of the Nation  ... Thank you for your partnership and collaboration. Yours very truly, Janet Napolitano."[74]
Criticism[edit]
See also: Criticism of the United States government § Criticism of agencies, and Criticism of government response to Hurricane Katrina
The Department of Homeland Security has received substantial criticism over excessive bureaucracy, waste, fraud, ineffectiveness and lack of transparency. Its information sharing centers have been accused of violating American civil liberties and targeting American citizens as potential threats to national security.
Excess, waste, and ineffectiveness[edit]
The Department of Homeland Security has been dogged by persistent criticism over excessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectiveness and lack of transparency. Congress estimates that the department has wasted roughly $15 billion in failed contracts (as of September 2008[update]).[75] In 2003, the department came under fire after the media revealed that Laura Callahan, Deputy Chief Information Officer at DHS with responsibilities for sensitive national security databases, had obtained her bachelor, masters, and doctorate computer science degrees through Hamilton University, a diploma mill in a small town in Wyoming.[76] The department was blamed for up to $2 billion of waste and fraud after audits by the Government Accountability Office revealed widespread misuse of government credit cards by DHS employees, with purchases including beer brewing kits, $70,000 of plastic dog booties that were later deemed unusable, boats purchased at double the retail price (many of which later could not be found), and iPods ostensibly for use in "data storage".[77][78][79][80]
A 2015 inspection of IT infrastructure found that the department was running over a hundred computer systems whose owners were unknown, including Secret and Top Secret databases, many with out of date security or weak passwords. Basic security reviews were absent, and the department had apparently made deliberate attempts to delay publication of information about the flaws.[81]
Data mining (ADVISE)[edit]
On September 5, 2007, the Associated Press reported that the DHS had scrapped an anti-terrorism data mining tool called ADVISE (Analysis, Dissemination, Visualization, Insight and Semantic Enhancement) after the agency's internal Inspector General found that pilot testing of the system had been performed using data on real people without required privacy safeguards in place.[82][83] The system, in development at Lawrence Livermore and Pacific Northwest National Laboratory since 2003, has cost the agency $42 million to date. Controversy over the program is not new; in March 2007, the Government Accountability Office stated that "the ADVISE tool could misidentify or erroneously associate an individual with undesirable activity such as fraud, crime or terrorism." Homeland Security's Inspector General later said that ADVISE was poorly planned, time-consuming for analysts to use, and lacked adequate justifications.[84]
Fusion centers[edit]
Main article: Fusion center
Fusion centers are terrorism prevention and response centers, many of which were created under a joint project between the Department of Homeland Security and the US Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs between 2003 and 2007. The fusion centers gather information not only from government sources, but also from their partners in the private sector.[85][86]
They are designed to promote information sharing at the federal level between agencies such as the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Department of Justice, US Military and  state and local level government. As of July 2009[update], the Department of Homeland Security recognized at least seventy-two fusion centers.[87] Fusion centers may also be affiliated with an Emergency Operations Center that responds in the event of a disaster.
There are a number of documented criticisms of fusion centers, including relative ineffectiveness at counterterrorism activities, the potential to be used for secondary purposes unrelated to counterterrorism, and their links to violations of civil liberties of American citizens and others.[88]
David Rittgers of the Cato Institute has noted:
a long line of fusion center and DHS reports labeling broad swaths of the public as a threat to national security. The North Texas Fusion System labeled Muslim lobbyists as a potential threat; a DHS analyst in Wisconsin thought both pro- and anti-abortion activists were worrisome; a Pennsylvania homeland security contractor watched environmental activists, Tea Party groups, and a Second Amendment rally; the Maryland State Police put anti-death penalty and anti-war activists in a federal terrorism database; a fusion center in Missouri thought that all third-party voters and Ron Paul supporters were a threat ...[89]
Mail interception[edit]
In 2006, MSNBC reported that Grant Goodman, "an 81-year-old retired University of Kansas history professor, received a letter from his friend in the Philippines that had been opened and resealed with a strip of dark green tape bearing the words "by Border Protection" and carrying the official Homeland Security seal."[90] The letter was sent by a devout Catholic Filipino woman with no history of supporting Islamic terrorism.[90] A spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection "acknowledged that the agency can, will and does open mail coming to U.S. citizens that originates from a foreign country whenever it's deemed necessary":
All mail originating outside the United States Customs territory that is to be delivered inside the U.S. Customs territory is subject to Customs examination," says the CBP Web site. That includes personal correspondence.  "All mail means 'all mail,'" said John Mohan, a CBP spokesman, emphasizing the point.[90]
The department declined to outline what criteria are used to determine when a piece of personal correspondence should be opened or to say how often or in what volume Customs might be opening mail.[90]
Goodman's story provoked outrage in the blogosphere,[91] as well as in the more established media. Reacting to the incident, Mother Jones remarked that "[u]nlike other prying government agencies, Homeland Security wants you to know it is watching you."[92] CNN observed that "[o]n the heels of the NSA wiretapping controversy, Goodman's letter raises more concern over the balance between privacy and security."[93]
Employee morale[edit]
In July 2006, the Office of Personnel Management conducted a survey of federal employees in all 36 federal agencies on job satisfaction and how they felt their respective agency was headed. DHS was last or near to last in every category including;
33rd on the talent management index
35th on the leadership and knowledge management index
36th on the job satisfaction index
36th on the results-oriented performance culture index
The low scores were attributed to major concerns about basic supervision, management and leadership within the agency. Examples from the survey reveal most concerns are about promotion and pay increase based on merit, dealing with poor performance, rewarding creativity and innovation, leadership generating high levels of motivation in the workforce, recognition for doing a good job, lack of satisfaction with various component policies and procedures and lack of information about what is going on with the organization.[94][95]
DHS is the only large federal agency to score below 50% in overall survey rankings. It was last of large federal agencies in 2014 with 44.0% and fell even lower in 2015 at 43.1%, again last place.[96] DHS continued to rank at the bottom in 2019, prompting Congressional inquiries into the problem.[97] High work load resulting from chronic staff shortage, particularly in Customs and Border Protection, has contributed to low morale,[98] as have scandals and intense negative public opinion heightened by immigration policies of the Trump administration.[99]
MIAC report[edit]
In 2009, the Missouri Information Analysis Center (MIAC) made news for targeting supporters of third party candidates (such as Ron Paul), anti-abortion activists, and conspiracy theorists as potential militia members.[100] Anti-war activists and Islamic lobby groups were targeted in Texas, drawing criticism from the American Civil Liberties Union.[101]
According to the Department of Homeland Security:[102]
The Privacy Office has identified a number of risks to privacy presented by the fusion center program:
Justification for fusion centers
Ambiguous Lines of Authority, Rules, and Oversight
Participation of the Military and the Private Sector
Data Mining
Excessive Secrecy
Inaccurate or Incomplete Information
Mission Creep
2009 Virginia terrorism threat assessment[edit]
In 2009, the Virginia Fusion Center came under criticism for publishing a terrorism threat assessment which stated that certain universities are potential hubs for terror related activity.[103] The report targeted historically black colleges and identified hacktivism as a form of terrorism.[104]
Freedom of Information Act processing performance[edit]
In the Center for Effective Government analysis of 15 federal agencies which receive the most Freedom of Information Act FOIA requests, published in 2015 (using 2012 and 2013 data), the Department of Homeland Security earned a D by scoring 69 out of a possible 100 points, i.e. did not earn a satisfactory overall grade. It also had not updated its FOIA policies since the 2007 FOIA amendments.[105]
Fourteen Words slogan and "88" reference[edit]
In 2018, the DHS was accused of referencing the white nationalist Fourteen Words slogan in an official document, by using a similar fourteen-worded title, in relation to illegal immigration and border control:[106]
We Must Secure The Border And Build The Wall To Make America Safe Again.[107]
Although dismissed by the DHS as a coincidence, both the use of "88" in a document, and the similarity to the slogan's phrasing ("We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children"), drew criticism and controversy from several media outlets.[108][109]
"Abolish DHS"[edit]
While abolishing the DHS has been proposed since 2011,[110] the idea was popularized when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez suggested abolishing the DHS in light of the abuses against detained migrants by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection agencies.[111]
Portland protests[edit]
In 2020, the DHS was criticized for detaining protesters in Portland, Oregon.  It even drew rebuke from the department's first secretary and former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge who said, "It would be a cold day in hell before I would consent to an uninvited, unilateral intervention into one of my cities”.[112]
On August 10, 2020 in an opinion article for USA Today by Anthony D. Romero, the ACLU called for the dismantling of DHS over the deployment of federal forces in July 2020 during the Portland protests.[113]
See also[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
United States portal
Container Security Initiative
E-Verify
Electronic System for Travel Authorization
Homeland
Emergency Management Institute
Homeland Security USA
Homeland security grant
List of state departments of homeland security
National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC), Ft Detrick, MD
National Interoperability Field Operations Guide
National Strategy for Homeland Security
Project Hostile Intent
Public Safety Canada
Shadow Wolves
Terrorism in the United States
United States visas
United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (US-VISIT)
University of Northern New Jersey and the University of Farmington sting operations
Visa Waiver Program
Interior ministry. Generally in other countries "interior ministries" usually deal with internal police, immigration and border control duties.
Home Office (UK)
References[edit]
^ a b "About DHS". Homeland Security. June 29, 2016..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b "Budget In Brief: Fiscal Year 2020" (PDF). Homeland Security. p. 1. Retrieved July 30, 2019.
^ "Our Mission". Homeland Security.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on March 10, 2010. Retrieved May 31, 2011.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ a b c d e "National Strategy For Homeland Security" (PDF). DHS. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 14, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "History: Who Became Part of the Department?" United States Department of Homeland Security website Archived July 12, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved on August 22, 2008.
^ [Peter Andreas: Redrawing the line 2003:92], additional text.
^ Perl, Raphael (2004). "The Department of Homeland Security: Background and Challenges", Terrorism—reducing Vulnerabilities and Improving Responses, Committee on Counterterrorism Challenges for Russia and the United States, Office for Central Europe and Eurasia Development, Security, and Cooperation Policy and Global Affairs, in Cooperation with the Russian Academy of Sciences, page 176. National Academies Press. ISBN 0-309-08971-9.
^ Gessen, Masha (July 25, 2020). "Homeland Security Was Destined to Become a Secret Police Force". The New Yorker. Retrieved July 26, 2020.
^ Chomsky, Noam (2005). Imperial Ambitions, page 199. Metropolitan Books. ISBN 0-8050-7967-X.
^ a b c d e Stephen Barr. "DHS Withdraws Bid to Curb Union Rights", The Washington Post page D01, February 20, 2008. Retrieved on August 20, 2008.
^ "Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency". DHS.gov. November 20, 2018. Retrieved November 24, 2018.
^ "Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving administration, Trump says". ABC News. April 7, 2019. Retrieved April 7, 2019.
^ Faulders, Katherine (April 8, 2019). "Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resigns". ABC News. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
^ "Trump's possibly illegal designation of a new acting homeland security secretary, explained". Vox. April 8, 2019. Retrieved April 8, 2019.
^ "DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen resigns after clashes with Trump on immigration". CBS News. April 7, 2019. Retrieved April 8, 2019.
^ Gerstein, Josh; Beasley, Stephanie. "Legality of Trump move to replace Nielsen questioned". POLITICO. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
^ Feuerherd, Ben (April 10, 2019). "Acting deputy DHS secretary was forced to resign after Nielsen exit". New York Post. Retrieved April 10, 2019.
^ "Administrator". August 10, 2017.
^ "TSA chief to temporarily fill No. 2 post at Homeland Security". April 11, 2019.
^ "Leadership". Department of Homeland Security. September 7, 2006. Retrieved August 10, 2020.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on February 21, 2012. Retrieved July 29, 2016.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "Leadership". U.S. Department of Homeland Security. October 3, 2019. Retrieved October 19, 2019.
^ Kanno-Youngs, Zolan; Goldman, Adam (August 1, 2020). "Homeland Security Reassigns Official Whose Office Compiled Intelligence on Journalists" – via NYTimes.com.
^ Kight, Stef W. "Federal judge rules Ken Cuccinelli unlawfully ran immigration agency". Axios. Retrieved March 2, 2020.
^ Kanno-Youngs, Zolan (March 1, 2020). "Cuccinelli's Appointment to Immigration Post Is Illegal, Judge Rules". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved March 2, 2020.
^ "U. S. Coast Guard Senior Leadership". www.uscg.mil. Retrieved December 26, 2016.
^ "Our Leadership | FLETC". www.fletc.gov. Retrieved December 26, 2016.
^ "Meet the IG | Office of Inspector General".
^ The United States Coast Guard has both military and law enforcement functions. Title 14 of the United States Code provides that "The Coast Guard as established January 28, 1915, shall be a military service and a branch of the armed forces of the United States at all times." Coast Guard units, or ships of its predecessor service, the Revenue Cutter Service, have seen combat in every war and armed conflict of the United States since 1790, including the Iraq War.
^ Bovard, James. "Moral high ground not won on battlefield", USA Today, October 8, 2008. Retrieved on August 19, 2008.
^ a b Wolf, Naomi (2007). The End of America, page 27. Chelsea Green Publishing. ISBN 978-1-933392-79-0.
^ "Remarks by Governor Ridge Announcing Homeland Security Advisory System". Retrieved May 5, 2017.
^ "Copy of press release 0046". US Department of Defense. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "Fact Sheet: Department of Homeland Security Seal", DHS press release, June 19, 2003. DHS website Archived October 24, 2006, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved on August 26, 2008.
^ "Statement of Secretary Tom Ridge". DHS. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Losey, Stephen (March 19, 2007). "Homeland Security plans move to hospital compound". Federal Times. Archived from the original on January 2, 2013. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Most Endangered Places". 2/2009. National Trust. Retrieved February 4, 2009.
^ Holley, Joel (June 17, 2007). "Tussle Over St. Elizabeths". The Washington Post. p. C01. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "NCPC Approves Final Master Plan for DHS Headquarters at St. Elizabeths". Archived from the original on January 17, 2009.
^ "DHS Gets Green Light". Federal Times.[dead link]
^ Heckman, Jory (June 21, 2019). "DHS St. Elizabeths campus gains 'center of gravity' with new headquarters". Federal News Network. Retrieved August 9, 2019.
^ Sernovitz, Daniel J. (July 9, 2019). "DHS reveals more detail on what's to come for St. Elizabeths West". Washington Business Journal. Retrieved August 9, 2019.
^ a b Roberts, Ed (February 7, 2018). "Spending stalemate has costs at Department of Homeland Security – Homeland Preparedness News". Homeland Preparedness News. Retrieved February 27, 2018.
^ Forbes, Daniel (May 28, 2004). "$226 Million in Govt Ads Helped Pave the Way for War". Antiwar.com. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ 
"Homeland Security: Ready.Gov". Outdoor Advertising Association of America. Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "CNN Live at daybreak". Aired February 20, 2003. CNN. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Homeland Security Frequently Asked Questions". ready.gov. Archived from the original on November 6, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Clean Air". ready.gov. Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Are You Ready.gov?". February 21, 2003. lies.com. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Build A Kit | Ready.gov". www.ready.gov. Archived from the original on November 1, 2016. Retrieved October 31, 2016.
^ "Make A Plan | Ready.gov". www.ready.gov. Retrieved October 31, 2016.[permanent dead link]
^ "About the Ready Campaign | Ready.gov". www.ready.gov. Retrieved October 31, 2016.
^ "Emergency Preparedness". AdCouncil. Retrieved October 31, 2016.
^ Newswire, MultiVu - PR. "FEMA, Ad Council Launch New PSA Focused on People with Disabilities Preparing for Emergencies". Multivu. Retrieved October 31, 2016.
^ "Individuals with Disabilities and Others with Access and Functional Needs | Ready.gov". ready.gov. Retrieved October 31, 2016.
^ "Surge Capacity Force – Homeland Security". January 30, 2013. Retrieved April 18, 2019.
^ "National Cyber Security Division". U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved June 14, 2008.
^ a b "FAQ: Cyber Security R&amp;D Center". U.S. Department of Homeland Security S&amp;T Directorate. Retrieved June 14, 2008.
^ "Ongoing Research and Development". U.S. Department of Homeland Security S&amp;T Directorate. Retrieved June 14, 2008.
^ AFP-JiJi, "U.S. boots up cybersecurity center", October 31, 2009.
^ Murtha, Alex (October 17, 2017). "DHS, partners convene for government council on protecting election infrastructure". Homeland Preparedness News. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
^ "United States Federal Budget for Fiscal Year 2010 (vid. p.72)" (PDF). Government Printing Office. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 5, 2011. Retrieved January 9, 2010.
^ a b c "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2010 (vid. pp.37,38,41)" (PDF). Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ Priest, Dana and Arkin, William (December 20, 2010) [1], The Washington Post
^ a b "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2010 (vid. pp.147 ff.)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2009 (vid. p.134)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2008 (vid. p.44)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2007 (vid. p.50)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2005 (vid. p.294)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2003 (vid. p.40)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2006, FY 2004 (404 error)". US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ a b "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2010 (vid. pp.33 ff.)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ "US Department of Homeland Security Annual Financial Report FY 2010 (vid. pp.4 f.)" (PDF). US Department of Homeland Security. Retrieved January 13, 2011.
^ Hedgpeth, Dana (September 17, 2008). "Congress Says DHS Oversaw $15 Billion in Failed Contracts". The Washington Post. Retrieved November 17, 2008.
^ Diplomas For Sale - Retrieved August 5, 2015
^ Lipton, Eric (July 19, 2006). "Homeland Security Department Is Accused of Credit Card Misuse". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Jakes Jordan, Lara (July 19, 2006). "Credit Card Fraud at DHS". Homeland Security Weekly. Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Government's Katrina credit cards criticized". Associated Press. September 15, 2005. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Hedgpeth, Dana (September 17, 2008). "Congress says DHS oversaw $15 billion in failed contracts". The Washington Post. Retrieved September 17, 2008.
^ McCarthy, Kieren (November 20, 2015). "Who's running dozens of top-secret unpatched databases? The Dept of Homeland Security". The Register. Retrieved January 3, 2016.
^ "ADVISE Could Support Intelligence Analysis More Effectively" (PDF). pdf file. DHS. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Singel, Ryan (March 20, 2007). "Homeland Data Tool Needs Privacy Help, Report Says". Wired. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Sniffen, Michael J. (September 5, 2007). "DHS Ends Criticized Data-Mining Program". The Washington Post. Associated Press. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Monahan, T. 2009. The Murky World of 'Fusion Centres'. Criminal Justice Matters 75 (1): 20-21.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved February 2, 2011.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Report on Fusion Centers July 29, 2009 Democracy Now
^ Monahan, T. and Palmer, N.A. 2009. The Emerging Politics of DHS Fusion Centers. Security Dialogue 40 (6): 617-636.
^ Rittgers, David (February 2, 2011) We're All Terrorists Now Archived April 15, 2011, at the Wayback Machine, Cato Institute
^ a b c d Meeks, Brock (January 6, 2006) Homeland Security opening private mail, NBC News
^ Cole, John (January 9, 2006) Your Mail- Free for Government Inspection, Balloon Juice
^ Dees, Diane (January 9, 2006) Department of Homeland Security opens Kansas professor's mail, Mother Jones
^ Transcript Archived July 8, 2011, at the Wayback Machine from The Situation Room (January 12, 2006)
^ "Homeland Security employees rank last in job satisfaction survey". ABC Inc., WLS-TV Chicago. February 8, 2007. Archived from the original on March 18, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ Conroy, Bill (January 31, 2007). "DHS memo reveals agency personnel are treated like "human capital"". Narco News. Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved October 31, 2007.
^ "Best Places to Work Agency Rankings". Partnership for Public Service. Archived from the original on February 23, 2016. Retrieved February 22, 2016.
^ Neal, Jeff (January 16, 2020). "Layers of problems drive morale issues at DHS". Federal News Network. Retrieved May 23, 2020.
^ Miroff, Nick (January 19, 2018). "U.S. customs agency is so short-staffed, it's sending officers from airports to the Mexican border". Washington Post. Retrieved May 23, 2020.
^ Fernandez, Manny; Jordan, Miriam; Kanno-Youngs, Zolan; Dickerson, Caitlin; Brinson, Kendrick (September 15, 2019). "'People Actively Hate Us': Inside the Border Patrol's Morale Crisis". The New York Times. Retrieved May 23, 2020.
^ "'Fusion Centers' Expand Criteria to Identify Militia Members". Fox News. March 23, 2009. Archived from the original on August 3, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2018.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on April 8, 2012. Retrieved July 13, 2012.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Privacy Impact Assessment for the Department of Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative December 11, 2008 [2]
^ "The Raw Story – Fusion center declares nation's oldest universities possible terror threat". Retrieved April 18, 2019.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on December 20, 2010. Retrieved February 2, 2011.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Making the Grade: Access to Information Scorecard 2015 March 2015, 80 pages, Center for Effective Government, retrieved March 21, 2016
^ "Did Trump administration send a coded signal to neo-Nazis? Maybe not — but is that reassuring?". Salon (website). July 6, 2018.
^ "We Must Secure The Border And Build The Wall To Make America Safe Again". DHS. February 15, 2018.
^ "Homeland Security Officials Say Claims That Statement Mimics A White Supremacist Slogan Are Merely Conspiracy Theories". BuzzFeed. June 29, 2018.
^ "Are '14' And '88' Nazi Dog Whistles In Border Security Document – Or Just Numbers?". The Forward. June 28, 2018.
^ Rittgers, David (September 8, 2011). "Abolish the Department of Homeland Security". Cato Institute. Retrieved July 15, 2019.
^ Iati, Marisa (July 11, 2019). "Ocasio-Cortez wants to ax Homeland Security. Some conservatives didn't want it to begin with". The Washington Post. Retrieved July 11, 2019.
^ "Ex-DHS Secretary Tom Ridge: 'It would be a cold day in hell' before 'personal militia' would be welcomed uninvited in Pa. | TribLIVE.com". triblive.com.
^ Romero, Anthony D. (August 10, 2020). "Dismantle the Department of Homeland Security. Its tactics are fearsome: ACLU director". USA TODAY. Retrieved August 10, 2020.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to United States Department of Homeland Security.
Official website 
Department of Homeland Security on USAspending.gov
DHS in the Federal Register
vteFederal executive departments of the United States of AmericaCurrent
Agriculture
Commerce
Defense
Education
Energy
Health and Human Services
Homeland Security
Housing and Urban Development
Interior
Justice
Labor
State
Transportation
Treasury
Veterans Affairs
Former
Air Force
Army
Commerce and Labor
Health, Education, and Welfare
Navy
Post Office
War
vteAgencies under the United States Department of Homeland Security
Headquarters: St. Elizabeths West Campus
Chad Wolf, Acting Secretary of Homeland Security
Ken Cuccinelli, Acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security
Deputy Secretary
United States Coast Guard
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Customs and Border Protection
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Center for Domestic Preparedness
National Flood Insurance Program
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
United States Secret Service
Office of Operations Coordination
Transportation Security Administration
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office
Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans
Office of Immigration Statistics
Homeland Security Advisory Council
Science and TechnologyScience and Technology Directorate
Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency
Explosives Division
Chemical and Biological Defense Division
Border and Maritime Security Division
Human Factors and Behavioral Sciences Division
Infrastructure Protection and Disaster Management Division
Cyber Security Division (National Cybersecurity Center)Intelligence and Analysis
Office of Intelligence and Analysis
Management
Management Directorate
Federal Protective Service
Office of Biometric Identity Management
Law enforcement in the United States
Terrorism in the United States
vte United States Armed Forces
Military budget of the United States
 Book
 Category
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Navbox
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Leadership
Commander-in-chief: President of the United States
Secretary of Defense
Deputy Secretary of Defense
Secretary of Homeland Security
Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security
Joint Chiefs of Staff:
Chairman
Vice Chairman
United States Congress: Committees on Armed Services:
Senate
House
Active duty four-star officers
United States military seniority
National Security Act of 1947
Goldwater–Nichols Act
OrganizationMilitary departments
Department of Defense (Secretary): Army (Secretary)
Navy (Secretary)
Air Force (Secretary)
Department of Homeland Security (Secretary)
Service branches and heads
Army (Chief of Staff)
Marine Corps (Commandant)
Navy (Chief of Naval Operations)
Air Force (Chief of Staff)
Space Force (Chief of Space Operations)
Coast Guard (Commandant)
Reserve components
Reserves:
A
MC
N
AF
CG
National Guard:
A
AF
Civilian auxiliaries
Military Auxiliary Radio System
Merchant Marine
Civil Air Patrol
Coast Guard Auxiliary
Marine Corps Cyber Auxiliary
Unified Combatant Command
Africa
Central
European
Indo-Pacific
Northern
Southern
Space
Cyber
Special Operations
Strategic
Transportation
Structure
United States Code
Title 10
Title 14
Title 32
Title 50
The Pentagon
Installations
Units:
A
MC
N
AF
CG
Logistics
Media
Unit mottoes
Operationsand history
Current deployments
Conflicts
Wars
Civil affairs
Officers' clubs
History:
A
MC
N
AF
CG
Timeline
Colonial
World War II
U.S. ancestry
By continent:
African Americans
Asian Americans
By religious group:
Buddhist Americans
Jewish Americans
Muslim Americans
Pakistani Americans
Sikh Americans
Historiography
Army Center of Military History
MC History Division
Naval History and Heritage Command
Air Force Historical Research Agency
War artists
Army Art Program
AF Art Program
PersonnelTraining
MEPS
ASVAB
Recruit training:
A
MC
N
AF/SF
CG
Officer candidate school:
A
MC
N
AF/SF
Warrant:
A
MC
Service academies:
A (prep)
MC/N (prep)
AF/SF (prep)
CG
Merchant Marine
ROTC
A:ECP
MC/N
AF/SF
Medical
Other education
Uniforms
Uniforms:
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Awards &amp; decorations:
Inter-service
A
MC/N
AF/SF
CG
Foreign
International
Devices
Badges:
Identification
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Ranks
Officer:
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Warrant officers
Enlisted:
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Other
Oath:
Enlistment
Office
Creeds &amp; Codes:
Code of Conduct
NCO
A
MC
N
AF
CG
Service numbers:
A
MC
N
AF
CG
Military Occupational Specialty/Rating/Air Force Specialty Code
Pay
Uniform Code of Military Justice
Judge Advocate General's Corps
Military Health System/TRICARE
Separation
Veterans Affairs
Conscription
Chiefs of Chaplains:
A
MC
N
AF
CG
Equipment
A
MC:
vehicles
weapons
other
N
AF
CG
Land
Individual weapons
Crew-served weapons
Vehicles (active)
Sea
All watercraft
Ships:
A
N (active)
AF
CG
MSC
Weapons:
N
CG
Reactors
Air
Aircraft
World War I
active
Aircraft designation
Missiles
Helicopter arms
Other
Nuclear football
Electronics (designations)
Flags:
A
MC
N
AF
SF
CG
Ensign
Jack
Guidons
Food
WMDs:
Nuclear
Biological
Chemical
Legend
A = Army
MC = Marine Corps
N = Navy
AF = Air Force
SF = Space Force
CG = Coast Guard
vteImmigration to the United States and related topicsRelevant colonial era,United States andinternational lawsColonial era
Nationality law in the American Colonies
Plantation Act 1740
18th century
Naturalization Act 1790 / 1795 / 1798
19th century
Naturalization Law 1802
Civil Rights Act of 1866
14th Amendment (1868)
Naturalization Act 1870
Page Act (1875)
Immigration Act of 1882
Chinese Exclusion (1882)
Scott Act (1888)
Immigration Act of 1891
Geary Act (1892)
1900–1949
Naturalization Act 1906
Gentlemen's Agreement (1907)
Immigration Act of 1907
Immigration Act 1917 (Asian Barred Zone)
Emergency Quota Act (1921)
Cable Act (1922)
Immigration Act 1924
Tydings–McDuffie Act (1934)
Filipino Repatriation Act (1935)
Nationality Act of 1940
Bracero Program (1942–1964)
Magnuson Act (1943)
War Brides Act (1945)
Luce–Celler Act (1946)
1950–1999
UN Refugee Convention (1951)
Immigration and Nationality Act 1952 / 1965
Refugee Act (1980)
Immigration Reform and Control Act (1986)
American Homecoming Act (1989)
Immigration Act 1990
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) (1996)
Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA) (1997)
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act (ACWIA) (1998)
21st century
American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act (AC21) (2000)
Legal Immigration Family Equity Act (LIFE Act) (2000)
H-1B Visa Reform Act (2004)
Real ID Act (2005)
Secure Fence Act (2006)
DACA (2012)
Executive Order 13769 (2017)
Executive Order 13780 (2017)
Visas and policies
Visa policy
Permanent residence
Visa Waiver Program
Temporary protected status
Asylum
Green Card Lottery
Central American Minors
US-VISIT
Security Advisory Opinion
E-Verify
Section 287(g)
National Origins Formula
Expedited removal
Detention
Family
Unaccompanied children
Trump administration family separation policy
Governmentorganizations
Department of Homeland Security
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
U.S. Border Patrol (BORTAC)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Board of Immigration Appeals
Office of Refugee Resettlement
Supreme Court cases
US v. Wong Kim Ark (1898)
US v. Bhagat Singh Thind (1923)
US v. Brignoni-Ponce (1975)
Zadvydas v. Davis (2001)
Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting (2011)
DHS v. Regents of the Univ. of Cal. / Wolf v. Vidal (2020)
Related issuesand events
Economic impact
Eugenics in the United States
Guest worker program
Human trafficking
Human smuggling
Coyotaje
Immigration reform
Immigration reduction
Mexico–United States barrier
Labor shortage
March for America
Illegal immigrant population
Reverse immigration
2006 protests
Unaccompanied minors from Central America
Central American migrant caravans
List of people deported from the United States
Geography
Mexico–United States border
Canada–United States border
United States Border Patrol interior checkpoints
Proposed legislation
DREAM Act (2001–2010)
H.R. 4437 (2005)
McCain–Kennedy (2005)
SKIL (2006)
Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act 2006
STRIVE Act (2007)
Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act 2007
Uniting American Families Act (2000–2013)
Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013
SAFE Act (2015)
RAISE Act (2017)
Immigration stationsand points of entry
Angel Island
Castle Garden
East Boston
Ellis Island
Sullivan's Island
Washington Avenue
Operations
"Wetback" (1954)
"Peter Pan" (1960–1962)
"Babylift" (1975)
"Gatekeeper" (1994)
"Endgame" (2003–2012)
"Front Line" (2004–2005)
"Streamline" (2005–present)
"Return to Sender" (2006–2007)
"Jump Start" (2006–2008)
"Phalanx" (2010–2016)
"Faithful Patriot" (2018–present)
State legislation
California DREAM Act (2006–2010)
Arizona SB 1070 (2010)
Alabama HB 56 (2011)
Non-governmentalorganizations
Arizona Border Recon
Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles
Coalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform
National Immigration Forum
Center for Community Change
We Are America Alliance
CASA of Maryland
Mexica Movement
Mexicans Without Borders
Federation for American Immigration Reform
Minuteman Project
Minuteman Civil Defense Corps
California Coalition for Immigration Reform
Save Our State
Center for Immigration Studies
National Korean American Service &amp; Education Consortium (NAKASEC)
NumbersUSA
Negative Population Growth
Migration Policy Institute
Utah Compact
Center for Migration Studies of New York
Authority control 
GND: 10062583-6
ISNI: 0000 0001 2214 8194
LCCN: no2002051730
NKC: kn20051206001
VIAF: 121741457
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no2002051730
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_Department_of_Homeland_Security&amp;oldid=982152288"
		Categories: United States Department of Homeland Security2002 establishments in the United StatesDisaster preparedness in the United StatesHistory of the United States (1991–present)Internal affairs ministriesMinistries established in 2002Organizations based in Washington, D.C.Public safety ministriesOrganizations associated with Russian interference in the 2016 United States electionsUnited States federal executive departmentsUnited States intelligence agenciesHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleWebarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2017Articles with dead external links from August 2019Articles with permanently dead external linksWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from April 2019Coordinates not on WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2020Articles with unsourced statements from July 2019Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2010Articles needing additional references from December 2017All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing potentially dated statements from September 2008All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles containing potentially dated statements from July 2009Commons category link from WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةBân-lâm-gúБългарскиCatalàČeštinaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEuskaraفارسیFrançais한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתҚазақшаLatviešuLietuviųBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việtייִדיש中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 6 October 2020, at 13:13 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
