	Epiphany season
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the Western Christian practice. For East Syrian season of Epiphany, see Denha.
  The Adoration of the Magi by Edward Burne-Jones (1904)
Christian liturgical year
Western
Advent
Christmastide
Epiphanytide
Ordinary Time (1 and 2)
Pre-Lent / Shrovetide
Lent
Holy Week / Paschal Triduum
Eastertide
Pentecost
Eastern
Nativity Fast
Christmastide
Pre-Great Lent
Great Lent
Eastertide
Pentecost
Apostles' Fast
Weeks after Pentecost
Dormition Fast
East Syriac Rite
Weeks of Annunciation
Weeks of Epiphany
Weeks of Great Fast
Weeks of Resurrection
Weeks of Apostles
Qaita or Weeks of Summer
Eliya-Sliba-Muse or Weeks of Eliyah, Cross and Muse
Qudas Edta or Weeks of Dedication of Church
vte
The Epiphany season, also known as Epiphanytide, is in some churches recognized as a liturgical period following the Christmas season (Christmastide). It begins on the day of Epiphany, and ends at various points as defined by those churches.
Contents
1 Anglicanism
2 Methodism and Lutheranism
3 Presbyterianism
4 Roman Catholicism
5 References
Anglicanism[edit]
In Advent 2000, the Church of England introduced into its liturgy an optional Epiphany season by approving the Common Worship series of services as an alternative to those in the Book of Common Prayer, defining Epiphanytide as lasting from the feast of the Epiphany to Candlemas.
An official publication of the Church of England states: "The Christmas season is often celebrated for twelve days, ending with the Epiphany. Contemporary use has sought to express an alternative tradition, in which Christmas lasts for a full forty days, ending with the Feast of the Presentation on February 2."[1] It presents the latter part of this period as the Epiphany season, comprising the Sundays of Epiphany and ending "only with the Feast of the Presentation (Candlemas)".[2]
The Church of England's optional Epiphany season thus begins at Evening Prayer on the Eve of the Epiphany (which may be celebrated on January 6 or the Sunday between January 2 and 8) and ends at Evening Prayer (or Night Prayer) on the Feast of the Presentation (which may be celebrated on 2 February or on the Sunday between January 28 and February 3). The Epiphany season is seen as in some sense a continuation of the Christmas season, and together they last forty days. The three main events focused on during the Epiphany season are the visit of the Magi, the baptism of Jesus, and Jesus' miracle at the marriage at Cana. The visit of the Magi is traditionally interpreted as symbolic of God's revelation of himself to the Gentiles, and so one of the themes of the season is mission. The Week of Prayer for Christian Unity also falls within the season, allowing another seasonal theme to be that of unity. The season culminates at the Feast of the Presentation, after which the liturgy stops looking back to Christmas and begins looking forward to the Passion. The colour for the season is white.
Methodism and Lutheranism[edit]
  The Epiphanytide tradition of chalking the door involves writing C+M+B (representing the names of the Three Wise Men as well as the Christian prayer Christus mansionem benedicat) on one's door, as seen here on the gate of Villa Reepschlägerbahn in Germany.
Several Protestant churches celebrate an Epiphany season that lasts until the day before Ash Wednesday, which marks the beginning of the season of Lent.[3] As such, in some adaptations of the Revised Common Lectionary, such as those used by Methodists and Lutherans, the Epiphanytide begins on 6 January, and continues until the day before Ash Wednesday (which begins Lent). The last Sunday of Epiphany is Transfiguration Sunday.
Methodists in the United States follow this practice,[4] as do Methodists in Singapore.[5]
In one interpretation the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America celebrates on the day of Epiphany, 6 January, the revelation of Christ to all nations as represented by the magi who come to worship Jesus. The church calendar recognizes the season of Epiphany from January 6 until the last Sunday before Ash Wednesday which is celebrated as the Transfiguration of our Lord. The length of the season of Epiphany varies and is determined by working backwards through the season of Lent from the moveable date for the celebration of Easter. Among the principal themes are: the revelation of Christ to all nations, Jesus' baptism in the River Jordan, and Christ as the light of the world. The colours of the season are white (a colour associated with the festivals of Christ and suggesting gladness, joy and light for the day of Epiphany), used the first week after the Epiphany when the Baptism of our Lord is celebrated, and the last week of the season of Epiphany when the Transfiguration of our Lord is celebrated; and green, reminiscent of living plants and suggests spiritual growth. Green is used in the season of Epiphany beginning with the second week after the Epiphany until the week before the Transfiguration of our Lord is celebrated.[6]
The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America used the terms "Time after Epiphany" to describe this period.[7] The expression with "after" has been interpreted as making the period in question correspond to that of Ordinary Time.[8][9]
Presbyterianism[edit]
The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) states that neither Epiphany nor Pentecost are seasons, and that it is a misunderstanding to imagine that expressions such as "Fifth Sunday after Epiphany" indicate the existence of such a time as "Epiphany season". These expression merely indicate the passing of time, not the character of the period, for neither the period after Epiphany nor that after Pentecost focus on a dominant event or theme. The correct term, it says, is therefore "Ordinary Time".[10]
Roman Catholicism[edit]
The calendar of the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter and the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham within the Roman Catholic Church (which uses Ordinariate Use liturgy) celebrates Epiphanytide or the Time After Epiphany from "Monday of Week 1 on the day following the [Feast of the] Baptism of the Lord" until the liturgical start of Ash Wednesday; during Epiphanytide, Candlemas is highlighted as a "Feast of the Lord".[11]
Within the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, until 1955, the feast of the Epiphany had an octave, and was thus celebrated from 6 until 13 January. After Pope Pius XII removed this octave, the liturgy of those days continued to use the same texts as previously, thus giving to the period until the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord, which replaced the Octave Day of the Epiphany, a special character that was still recognized by the 1960 Code of Rubrics. This defined the season of Christmas as extending from First Vespers of Christmas to 13 January inclusive, and divided this season into Christmastide, ending just before First Vespers of the Epiphany, and Epiphany (not Epiphanytide and, as is obvious, no longer the Octave of the Epiphany) from then until 13 January inclusive (one week).[12] The 1969 revision preserved the arrangement by which the Epiphany is part of the Christmas season, during which the liturgical colour is white, and which now lasts only until the feast of the Baptism of the Lord. This latter feast is now usually celebrated on the Sunday after 6 January, and not later than 13 January. The season immediately following the Octave Day of the Epiphany (until 1954), or the Feast of the Baptism of the Lord (since 1955), and in which the liturgical colour is green, was for the first time given a name in the 1960 Code of Rubrics, which in Latin called it the season per annum.[12] The official English translation of the Roman Missal calls it Ordinary Time.[13] This season begins on 14 January. Until 1969, it ran from that date to just before First Vespers of Septuagesima Sunday, but since 1970 to just before Ash Wednesday. However, the Encyclopedia of Catholic Devotions and Practices, which has received the imprimatur of John Michael D'Arcy, refers to this period as Epiphanytide, stating that "The Epiphany season extends from January 6 to Septuagesima Sunday, and has from one to six Sundays, according to the date of Easter. White is the color for the octave; green is the liturgical color for the season."[14]
References[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Christianity portal
^ Common Worship Texts: Times and Seasons (Church House Publishing 2006), p. 64
^ Common Worship Texts: Times and Seasons (Church House Publishing 2006), p. 120
^ BBC: Epiphany (Last updated 2011-10-07; accessed 2014-12-19)
^ "Epiphany". Christian Advocate. United Methodist Publishing House. 7: 15. 1963. Epiphany Day is always Twelfth Night or January 6, and in Methodist usage the Epiphany Season includes all the Sundays between that date and Ash Wednesday, which for 1964 will be February 12, the beginning of Lent..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "The Methodist Church in Singapore - Seasons of the Church". The Methodist Church in Singapore. Retrieved 24 November 2015. The Methodist Church in Singapore observes seven Christian seasons throughout the year: Advent, Christmastide, Epiphany, Lent, Eastertide, Pentecost and Kingdomtide.
^ Evangelical Lutheran Church in America Archived November 15, 2012, at the Wayback Machine
^ Evangelical Lutheran Church in America: Worship Resources (accessed 2014-12-19)
^ Calvin Institute of Christian Worship, "Ordinary Time Resource Guide" (accessed 2014-12-19)
^ Imago Dei Anglican church, "Ordinary Time (After Epiphany)" (accessed 1014-12-19) Archived 2014-12-19 at the Wayback Machine
^ Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), Liturgical Year (Westminster John Knox Press 1992 ISBN 978-0-66425350-9), p. 49
^ "Liturgical Calendar for the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter" (PDF). Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter. 2016. Retrieved 15 January 2017.
^ a b The New Rubrics of the Roman Breviary and Missal (1960), pp. 12–13
^ See, for instance, General Instruction of the Roman Missal, 346, 355, 365, etc.
^ Ball, Ann (2003). Encyclopedia of Catholic Devotions and Practices. Our Sunday Visitor Publishing. p. 188. ISBN 9780879739102. Retrieved 9 December 2015.
vteLiturgical year of the Catholic ChurchOrdinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1969 Calendar)Advent
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
December 17 to 23
Christmas Season
Christmas
Holy Family
Mary, Mother of God
Epiphany
Baptism of the Lord
Ordinary Time I
Presentation of the Lord
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Palm Sunday
Holy Week
Paschal Triduum
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter Sunday
Octave
Divine Mercy Sunday
Ascension
Pentecost
Ordinary Time II
Trinity Sunday
Corpus Christi
Sacred Heart
Visitation
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the Cross
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Christ the King
Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1960 Calendar)Advent
Rorate Mass
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
Greater Ferias
Winter Ember Days
Christmas Season
Christmas
Octave Day of Christmas
Holy Name of Jesus
Epiphany Season
Epiphany
Holy Family
Baptism of the Lord
Purification of MaryP
LentPre-Lent
Septuagesima
Sexagesima
Quinquagesima
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Spring Ember Days
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Passiontide
Passion Sunday
Palm SundayP
Holy WeekP
Paschal Triduum
Tenebrae
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter SundayP
Octave
Rogation DaysP
AscensionP
Pentecost Season
Pentecost
Summer Ember Days
Trinity Sunday
Corpus ChristiP
Sacred Heart
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Precious Blood
Visitation
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the CrossP
Autumn Ember Days
Maternity of Mary
Christ the King
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Legend
P = Ordinary Procession according to the Roman Ritual
Legend
Italic font marks the 10 holy days of obligation in the universal calendar which do not normally fall on a Sunday.
Older calendars
1955
pre-1955
Tridentine
Liturgical colours
Ranking
Computus
 Catholicism portal
vteEpiphanyCalendar
Epiphany
Epiphany season
Ordinary Time
Week of Prayer for Christian Unity
Presentation of Jesus at the Temple
Great Blessing of Waters at Theophany (Eastern Orthodox)
Epiphany feast days (East Syriac Rite)
Timkat (Ethiopian Orthodox Church)
Little Christmas (Julian Calendar)
Feast of the Transfiguration (Certain Protestants)
Topics
Herod the Great
Flight into Egypt
Star of Bethlehem
Biblical Magi
Adoration of the Magi
Baptism of the Lord
Marriage at Cana
Traditions
King cake
Bolo-rei
Rosca de reyes
Tortell
Epiphany Eve
Cavalcade of Magi
Chalking the door
Pilgrimage to Al-Maghtas
Badalisc
La Befana
Moravian star
St. Knut's Day
Star singers
Hymnsand carols
As with Gladness Men of Old
Brightest and Best
Es ist für uns eine Zeit angekommen (Unto us a time has come)
Herr Christ, der einig Gotts Sohn (The Only Son from Heaven)
Stern über Bethlehem (Star above Bethlehem)
The Three Kings
We Three Kings of Orient Are
Wie schön leuchtet der Morgenstern (How Lovely Shines the Morning Star)
Noted works
Christus (Mendelssohn)
Church cantatas for the Feast of Epiphany (and following)
Orgelbüchlein § Epiphany BWV 616–617
The Ballad of the Brown King
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Epiphany_season&amp;oldid=980948680"
		Categories: Epiphany (holiday)January observancesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Norsk nynorskPolski
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 29 September 2020, at 12:16 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
