	Witchcraft
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Witches)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Practice of magical skills and abilities
"Witch" redirects here. For the etymology of "witch", see Witch (word). For other uses, see Witch (disambiguation) and Witchcraft (disambiguation).
  Witches by Hans Baldung (woodcut), 1508
Witchcraft (or witchery) is the practice of magical skills, spells, and abilities. Witchcraft is a broad term that varies culturally and societally, and thus can be difficult to define with precision.[1]
Historically, and currently in most traditional cultures worldwide—notably in Asia, South America, Africa, the African diaspora, and Indigenous communities in the Americas—the term is commonly associated with those who use supernatural means to cause harm to the innocent.[2][3][4][5] In places such as the Philippines, witches are viewed as those opposed to the sacred indigenous religions. In contrast, anthropologists writing about healers in Indigenous communities either use the traditional terminology of these cultures, or broad anthropological terms like "shaman".[6] 
In the modern era, some use "witch" to refer to benign, positive, or neutral practices of modern paganism,[7][8] such as divination or spellcraft, but this is primarily a modern, western, popular culture phenomenon.[9]
Belief in witchcraft is often present within societies and groups whose cultural framework includes a magical world view.[1]
Contents
1 Concept
2 Etymology and definitions
3 Overview
3.1 Alleged practices
3.1.1 Spell casting
3.1.2 Necromancy (conjuring the dead)
3.1.3 Demonology
3.1.4 White witches
3.2 Accusations of witchcraft
3.2.1 Violence related to accusations
3.3 Wicca
3.3.1 Witchcraft, feminism, and media
3.3.2 Traditional witchcraft
3.3.3 Stregheria
3.4 Contemporary witchcraft, Satanism and Luciferianism
4 Historical and religious perspectives
4.1 Near East beliefs
4.2 Abrahamic religions
4.2.1 Hebrew Bible
4.2.2 New Testament
4.2.3 Judaism
4.2.4 Islam
5 By region
5.1 Africa
5.1.1 Cameroon
5.1.2 Central Africa
5.1.3 Democratic Republic of the Congo
5.1.4 Ghana
5.1.5 Kenya
5.1.6 Malawi
5.1.7 Nigeria
5.1.8 Sierra Leone
5.1.9 Tanzania
5.1.10 South Africa
5.2 Americas
5.2.1 Caribbean
5.2.2 Colonial North America
5.2.3 Diné / Navajo
5.2.4 North America (Mexico)
5.2.5 South America (Brazil)
5.3 Asia
5.3.1 India
5.3.2 Nepal
5.3.3 Japan
5.3.4 Philippines
5.3.5 Saudi Arabia
5.3.6 Syria and Iraq
5.3.7 Tocharians
5.4 Europe
5.4.1 United Kingdom
5.4.2 Italy
5.4.3 Spain
5.5 Oceania
5.5.1 Cook Islands
5.5.2 Papua New Guinea
5.5.3 Fiji
5.6 Russia
5.6.1 Spells
5.6.2 Societal view of witchcraft
5.6.3 Witchcraft trials
6 Witches in art
7 See also
8 Footnotes
9 References
10 Referenced works
11 Further reading
12 External links
Concept
  Two of the Pendle witches, tried at Lancaster in 1612, in an illustration from William Harrison Ainsworth's 1849 novel The Lancashire Witches
  The Magic Circle by John William Waterhouse, 1886
The concept of witchcraft and the belief in its existence have persisted throughout recorded history. They have been present or central at various times and in many diverse forms among cultures and religions worldwide, including both primitive and highly advanced cultures,[10] and continue to have an important role in many cultures today.[9]
Historically, the predominant concept of witchcraft in the Western world derives from Old Testament laws against witchcraft, and entered the mainstream when belief in witchcraft gained Church approval in the Early Modern Period. It is a theosophical conflict between good and evil, where witchcraft was generally evil and often associated with the Devil and Devil worship. This culminated in deaths, torture and scapegoating (casting blame for misfortune),[11][12] and many years of large scale witch-trials and witch hunts, especially in Protestant Europe, before largely ceasing during the European Age of Enlightenment. Christian views in the modern day are diverse and cover the gamut of views from intense belief and opposition (especially by Christian fundamentalists) to non-belief, and even approval in some churches. From the mid-20th century, witchcraft – sometimes called contemporary witchcraft to clearly distinguish it from older beliefs – became the name of a branch of modern paganism. It is most notably practiced in the Wiccan and modern witchcraft traditions, and it is no longer practiced in secrecy.[13]
The Western mainstream Christian view is far from the only societal perspective about witchcraft. Many cultures worldwide continue to have widespread practices and cultural beliefs that are loosely translated into English as "witchcraft", although the English translation masks a very great diversity in their forms, magical beliefs, practices, and place in their societies. During the Age of Colonialism, many cultures across the globe were exposed to the modern Western world via colonialism, usually accompanied and often preceded by intensive Christian missionary activity (see "Christianization"). In these cultures beliefs that were related to witchcraft and magic were influenced by the prevailing Western concepts of the time. Witch-hunts, scapegoating, and the killing or shunning of suspected witches still occur in the modern era.[14]
Suspicion of modern medicine due to beliefs about illness being due to witchcraft also continues in many countries to this day, with serious healthcare consequences. HIV/AIDS[5] and Ebola virus disease[15] are two examples of often-lethal infectious disease epidemics whose medical care and containment has been severely hampered by regional beliefs in witchcraft. Other severe medical conditions whose treatment is hampered in this way include tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy and the common severe bacterial Buruli ulcer.[16][17]
Etymology and definitions
Further information: Witch (word)
The word is over a thousand years old: Old English formed the compound wiccecræft from "wicce" ("witch") and "cræft" ("craft").[18] The word witch was also spelled "wicca" or "wycca" in Old English, and was originally masculine.[19] Folk etymologies link witchcraft "to the English words wit, wise, wisdom [Germanic root *weit-, *wait-, *wit-; Indo-European root *weid-, *woid-, *wid-]", so "craft of the wise."[20]
In anthropological terminology, witches differ from sorcerers in that they don't use physical tools or actions to curse; their maleficium is perceived as extending from some intangible inner quality, and one may be unaware of being a witch, or may have been convinced of their nature by the suggestion of others.[21] This definition was pioneered in a study of central African magical beliefs by E. E. Evans-Pritchard, who cautioned that it might not correspond with normal English usage.[22]
Historians of European witchcraft have found the anthropological definition difficult to apply to European witchcraft, where witches could equally use (or be accused of using) physical techniques, as well as some who really had attempted to cause harm by thought alone.[2] European witchcraft is seen by historians and anthropologists as an ideology for explaining misfortune; however, this ideology has manifested in diverse ways, as described below.[23]
Overview
Alleged practices
  A Witch by Edward Robert Hughes, 1902
Professor Norman Gevitz wrote, that:
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}It is argued here that the medical arts played a significant and sometimes pivotal role in the witchcraft controversies of seventeenth-century New England. Not only were physicians and surgeons the principal professional arbiters for determining natural versus preternatural signs and symptoms of disease, they occupied key legislative, judicial, and ministerial roles relating to witchcraft proceedings. Forty six male physicians, surgeons, and apothecaries are named in court transcripts or other contemporary source materials relating to New England witchcraft. These practitioners served on coroners' inquests, performed autopsies, took testimony, issued writs, wrote letters, or committed people to prison, in addition to diagnosing and treating patients. Some practitioners are simply mentioned in passing.[24]
Where belief in malicious magic practices exists, such practitioners are typically forbidden by law as well as hated and feared by the general populace, while beneficial magic is tolerated or even accepted wholesale by the people—even if the orthodox establishment opposes it.[25]
Spell casting
See also: Magic (supernatural)
Probably the most widely known characteristic of a witch was the ability to cast a spell, "spell" being the word used to signify the means employed to carry out a magical action. A spell could consist of a set of words, a formula or verse, or a ritual action, or any combination of these.[26] Spells traditionally were cast by many methods, such as by the inscription of runes or sigils on an object to give that object magical powers; by the immolation or binding of a wax or clay image (poppet) of a person to affect them magically; by the recitation of incantations; by the performance of physical rituals; by the employment of magical herbs as amulets or potions; by gazing at mirrors, swords or other specula (scrying) for purposes of divination; and by many other means.[27][28][29]
Necromancy (conjuring the dead)
Strictly speaking, "necromancy" is the practice of conjuring the spirits of the dead for divination or prophecy, although the term has also been applied to raising the dead for other purposes. The biblical Witch of Endor performed it (1 Sam. 28), and it is among the witchcraft practices condemned by Ælfric of Eynsham:[30][31][32] "Witches still go to cross-roads and to heathen burials with their delusive magic and call to the devil; and he comes to them in the likeness of the man that is buried there, as if he arise from death."[33]
Demonology
Main article: Demonology
In Christianity and Islam[citation needed], sorcery came to be associated with heresy and apostasy and to be viewed as evil. Among the Catholics, Protestants, and secular leadership of the European Late Medieval/Early Modern period, fears about witchcraft rose to fever pitch and sometimes led to large-scale witch-hunts. The key century was the fifteenth, which saw a dramatic rise in awareness and terror of witchcraft, culminating in the publication of the Malleus Maleficarum but prepared by such fanatical popular preachers as Bernardino of Siena.[34] In total, tens or hundreds of thousands of people were executed, and others were imprisoned, tortured, banished, and had lands and possessions confiscated. The majority of those accused were women, though in some regions the majority were men.[35][36] In early modern Scots, the word warlock came to be used as the male equivalent of witch (which can be male or female, but is used predominantly for females).[37][38][39]
The Malleus Maleficarum, (Latin for "Hammer of The Witches") was a witch-hunting manual written in 1486 by two German monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger. It was used by both Catholics and Protestants[40] for several hundred years, outlining how to identify a witch, what makes a woman more likely than a man to be a witch, how to put a witch on trial, and how to punish a witch. The book defines a witch as evil and typically female. The book became the handbook for secular courts throughout Renaissance Europe, but was not used by the Inquisition, which even cautioned against relying on The Work.[41]
White witches
Main article: White witch
Further information: Folk religion, Magical thinking, and Shamanism
  A painting in the Rila Monastery in Bulgaria, condemning witchcraft and traditional folk magic
Throughout the early modern period in England, the English term "witch" was usually negative in meaning, unless modified in some way to distinguish it from cunning folk. Alan McFarlane writes, "There were a number of interchangeable terms for these practitioners, 'white', 'good', or 'unbinding' witches, blessers, wizards, sorcerers, however 'cunning-man' and 'wise-man' were the most frequent."[42] In 1584, Englishman and Member of Parliament, Reginald Scot  wrote, "At this day it is indifferent to say in the English tongue, 'she is a witch' or 'she is a wise woman'".[43] Folk magicians throughout Europe were often viewed ambivalently by communities, and were considered as capable of harming as of healing,[3] which could lead to their being accused as "witches" in the negative sense. Many English "witches" convicted of consorting with demons may have been cunning folk whose fairy familiars had been demonised;[44] many French devins-guerisseurs ("diviner-healers") were accused of witchcraft,[45] and over one half the accused witches in Hungary seem to have been healers.[46] Some of those who described themselves as contacting fairies described out-of-body experiences and travelling through the realms of an "other-world".[47]
Accusations of witchcraft
Éva Pócs states that reasons for accusations of witchcraft fall into four general categories:[23]
A person was caught in the act of positive or negative sorcery
A well-meaning sorcerer or healer lost their clients' or the authorities' trust
A person did nothing more than gain the enmity of their neighbours
A person was reputed to be a witch and surrounded with an aura of witch-beliefs or Occultism
She identifies three varieties of witch in popular belief:[23]
The "neighbourhood witch" or "social witch": a witch who curses a neighbour following some conflict.
The "magical" or "sorcerer" witch: either a professional healer, sorcerer, seer or midwife, or a person who has through magic increased her fortune to the perceived detriment of a neighbouring household; due to neighbourly or community rivalries and the ambiguity between positive and negative magic, such individuals can become labelled as witches.
The "supernatural" or "night" witch: portrayed in court narratives as a demon appearing in visions and dreams.[48]
"Neighbourhood witches" are the product of neighbourhood tensions, and are found only in self-sufficient serf village communities where the inhabitants largely rely on each other. Such accusations follow the breaking of some social norm, such as the failure to return a borrowed item, and any person part of the normal social exchange could potentially fall under suspicion. Claims of "sorcerer" witches and "supernatural" witches could arise out of social tensions, but not exclusively; the supernatural witch in particular often had nothing to do with communal conflict, but expressed tensions between the human and supernatural worlds; and in Eastern and Southeastern Europe such supernatural witches became an ideology explaining calamities that befell entire communities.[49]
Violence related to accusations
Belief in witchcraft continues to be present today in some societies and accusations of witchcraft are the trigger for serious forms of violence, including murder. Such incidents are common in countries such as Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal and Tanzania. Accusations of witchcraft are sometimes linked to personal disputes, jealousy, and conflicts between neighbors or family members over land or inheritance. Witchcraft-related violence is often discussed as a serious issue in the broader context of violence against women.[50][51][52][53][54]
In Tanzania, about 500 older women are murdered each year following accusations of witchcraft or accusations of being a witch.[55] Apart from extrajudicial violence, state-sanctioned violence also occurs in some jurisdictions. For instance, in Saudi Arabia practicing witchcraft and sorcery is a crime punishable by death and the country has executed people for this crime in 2011, 2012 and 2014.[56][57][58]
Children who live in some regions of the world, such as parts of Africa, are also vulnerable to violence that is related to witchcraft accusations.[59][60][61][62] Such incidents have also occurred in immigrant communities in the UK, including the much publicized case of the murder of Victoria Climbié.[63][64]
Wicca
Main article: Wicca
During the 20th century, interest in witchcraft in English-speaking and European countries began to increase, inspired particularly by Margaret Murray's theory of a pan-European witch-cult originally published in 1921, since discredited by further careful historical research.[65] Interest was intensified, however, by Gerald Gardner's claim in 1954 in Witchcraft Today that a form of witchcraft still existed in England. The truth of Gardner's claim is now disputed too.[66][67][68][69][70]
The first Neopagan groups to publicly appear, during the 1950s and 60s, were Gerald Gardner's Bricket Wood coven and Roy Bowers' Clan of Tubal Cain. They operated as initiatory secret societies. Other individual practitioners and writers such as Paul Huson[7] also claimed inheritance to surviving traditions of witchcraft.[8]
The Wicca that Gardner initially taught was a witchcraft religion having a lot in common with Margaret Murray's hypothetically posited cult of the 1920s.[71] Indeed, Murray wrote an introduction to Gardner's Witchcraft Today, in effect putting her stamp of approval on it. Wicca is now practised as a religion of an initiatory secret society nature with positive ethical principles, organised into autonomous covens and led by a High Priesthood. There is also a large "Eclectic Wiccan" movement of individuals and groups who share key Wiccan beliefs but have no initiatory connection or affiliation with traditional Wicca. Wiccan writings and ritual show borrowings from a number of sources including 19th and 20th-century ceremonial magic, the medieval grimoire known as the Key of Solomon, Aleister Crowley's Ordo Templi Orientis and pre-Christian religions.[72][73][74] Right now there are just over 200,000 people who practice Wicca in the United States.[75]
Witchcraft, feminism, and media
Wiccan and Neo-Wiccan literature has been described as aiding the empowerment of young women through its lively portrayal of female protagonists. Part of the recent growth in Neo-Pagan religions has been attributed to the strong media presence of fictional works such as Charmed, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and Harry Potter series with their depictions of pop culture, "positive witchcraft", which differs from the historical, traditional, and Indigenous definitions.[76] Based on a mass media case study done, "Mass Media and Religious Identity: A Case Study of Young Witches", in the result of the case study it was stated the reasons many young people are choosing to self-identify as witches and belong to groups they define as practicing witchcraft is diverse; however, the use of pop culture witchcraft in various media platforms can be the spark of interest for young people to see themselves as "witches".[77] Widespread accessibility to related material through internet media such as chat rooms and forums is also thought to be driving this development. Which is dependent on one's accessibility to those media resources and material to influence their thoughts and views on religion [77]
Wiccan beliefs, or pop culture variations thereof, are often considered by adherents to be compatible with liberal ideals such as the Green movement, and particularly with some varieties of feminism, by providing young women with what they see as a means for self-empowerment, control of their own lives, and potentially a way of influencing the world around them.[78][79] This is the case particularly in North America due to the strong presence of feminist ideals in some branches of the Neopagan communities.[76] The 2002 study Enchanted Feminism: The Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco suggests that some branches of Wicca include influential members of the second wave of feminism, which has also been redefined as a religious movement.[78]
Traditional witchcraft
Main article: Traditional witchcraft
Traditional witchcraft is a term used to refer to a variety of contemporary forms of witchcraft. Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described it as "a broad movement of aligned magico-religious groups who reject any relation to Gardnerianism and the wider Wiccan movement, claiming older, more "traditional" roots. Although typically united by a shared aesthetic rooted in European folklore, the Traditional Craft contains within its ranks a rich and varied array of occult groups, from those who follow a contemporary Pagan path that is suspiciously similar to Wicca to those who adhere to Luciferianism".[80] According to British Traditional Witch Michael Howard, the term refers to "any non-Gardnerian, non-Alexandrian, non-Wiccan or pre-modern form of the Craft, especially if it has been inspired by historical forms of witchcraft and folk magic".[81] Another definition was offered by Daniel A. Schulke, the current Magister of the Cultus Sabbati, when he proclaimed that traditional witchcraft "refers to a coterie of initiatory lineages of ritual magic, spellcraft and devotional mysticism".[82] Some forms of traditional witchcraft are the Feri Tradition, Cochrane's Craft and the Sabbatic craft.[83]
Stregheria
Main article: Stregheria
Modern Stregheria closely resembles Charles Leland's controversial late-19th-century account of a surviving Italian religion of witchcraft, worshipping the Goddess Diana, her brother Dianus/Lucifer, and their daughter Aradia. Leland's witches do not see Lucifer as the evil Satan that Christians see, but a benevolent god of the Sun.[84]
The ritual format of contemporary Stregheria is roughly similar to that of other Neopagan witchcraft religions such as Wicca. The pentagram is the most common symbol of religious identity. Most followers celebrate a series of eight festivals equivalent to the Wiccan Wheel of the Year, though others follow the ancient Roman festivals. An emphasis is placed on ancestor worship and balance.[85]
Contemporary witchcraft, Satanism and Luciferianism
Main article: Satanism and Witchcraft
Modern witchcraft considers Satanism to be the "dark side of Christianity" rather than a branch of Wicca: the character of Satan referenced in Satanism exists only in the theology of the three Abrahamic religions, and Satanism arose as, and occupies the role of, a rebellious counterpart to Christianity, in which all is permitted and the self is central. (Christianity can be characterized as having the diametrically opposite views to these.)[86] Such beliefs become more visibly expressed in Europe after the Enlightenment, when works such as Milton's Paradise Lost were described anew by romantics who suggested that they presented the biblical Satan as an allegory representing crisis of faith, individualism, free will, wisdom and enlightenment; a few works from that time also begin to directly present Satan in a less negative light, such as Letters from the Earth. The two major trends are theistic Satanism and atheistic Satanism; the former venerates Satan as a supernatural patriarchal deity, while the latter views Satan as merely a symbolic embodiment of certain human traits.[87]
Organized groups began to emerge in the mid 20th century, including the Ophite Cultus Satanas (1948)[88] and The Church of Satan (1966). After seeing Margaret Murray's book The God of the Witches the leader of Ophite Cultus Satanas, Herbert Arthur Sloane, said he realized that the horned god was Satan (Sathanas). Sloane also corresponded with his contemporary Gerald Gardner, founder of the Wicca religion, and implied that his views of Satan and the horned god were not necessarily in conflict with Gardner's approach. However, he did believe that, while "gnosis" referred to knowledge, and "Wicca" referred to wisdom, modern witches had fallen away from the true knowledge, and instead had begun worshipping a fertility god, a reflection of the creator god. He wrote that "the largest existing body of witches who are true Satanists would be the Yezedees". Sloane highly recommended the book The Gnostic Religion, and sections of it were sometimes read at ceremonies.[89]  The Church of Satan, founded by Anton Szandor LaVey in 1966,[90] views Satan not as a literal god and merely a symbol.[91] Still, this organization does believe in magic and incorporates it in their practice, distinguishing between Lesser and Greater forms.[92]
The Satanic Temple, founded in 2013,[93] does not practice magic as a part of their religion. They state "beliefs should conform to one's best scientific understanding of the world," and the practice of magic does not fit into their belief as such.[94]
It was estimated that there were up to 100,000 Satanists worldwide by 2006, twice the number estimated in 1990.[95] Satanistic beliefs have been largely permitted as a valid expression of religious belief in the West. For example, they were allowed in the British Royal Navy in 2004,[96][97][98] and an appeal was considered in 2005 for religious status as a right of prisoners by the Supreme Court of the United States.[99][100] Contemporary Satanism is mainly an American phenomenon,[101] although it began to reach Eastern Europe in the 1990s around the time of the fall of the Soviet Union.[102][103]
Luciferianism, on the other hand, is a belief system[104] and does not revere the devil figure or most characteristics typically affixed to Satan. Rather, Lucifer in this context is seen as one of many morning stars, a symbol of enlightenment,[105] independence and human progression. Madeline Montalban was an English witch who adhered to a specific form of Luciferianism which revolved around the veneration of Lucifer, or Lumiel, whom she considered to be a benevolent angelic being who had aided humanity's development. Within her Order, she emphasised that her followers discover their own personal relationship with the angelic beings, including Lumiel.[106] Although initially seeming favourable to Gerald Gardner, by the mid-1960s she had become hostile towards him and his Gardnerian tradition, considering him to be "a 'dirty old man' and sexual pervert."[107] She also expressed hostility to another prominent Pagan Witch of the period, Charles Cardell, although in the 1960s became friends with the two Witches at the forefront of the Alexandrian Wiccan tradition, Alex Sanders and his wife, Maxine Sanders, who adopted some of her Luciferian angelic practices.[108] In contemporary times luciferian witches exist within traditional witchcraft.[80]
Historical and religious perspectives
Near East beliefs
The belief in sorcery and its practice seem to have been widespread in the ancient Near East and Nile Valley. It played a conspicuous role in the cultures of ancient Egypt and in Babylonia. The latter tradition included an Akkadian anti-witchcraft ritual, the Maqlû. A section from the Code of Hammurabi (about 2000 B.C.) prescribes:
If a man has put a spell upon another man and it is not justified, he upon whom the spell is laid shall go to the holy river; into the holy river shall he plunge. If the holy river overcome him and he is drowned, the man who put the spell upon him shall take possession of his house. If the holy river declares him innocent and he remains unharmed the man who laid the spell shall be put to death. He that plunged into the river shall take possession of the house of him who laid the spell upon him.[109]
Abrahamic religions
Christianity
Hebrew Bible
Main article: Witchcraft and divination in the Hebrew Bible
According to the New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: In the Holy Scripture references to sorcery are frequent, and the strong condemnations of such practices found there do not seem to be based so much upon the supposition of fraud as upon the abomination of the magic in itself.[110]
  Execution of alleged witches in Central Europe, 1587
The King James Version uses the words "witch", "witchcraft", and "witchcrafts" to translate the Masoretic .mw-parser-output .script-hebrew,.mw-parser-output .script-Hebr{font-family:"SBL Hebrew","SBL BibLit","Frank Ruehl CLM","Taamey Frank CLM","Ezra SIL","Ezra SIL SR","Keter Aram Tsova","Taamey Ashkenaz","Taamey David CLM","Keter YG","Shofar","David CLM","Hadasim CLM","Simple CLM","Nachlieli",Cardo,Alef,"Noto Serif Hebrew","Noto Sans Hebrew","David Libre",David,"Times New Roman",Gisha,Arial,FreeSerif,FreeSans}כָּשַׁף‎ kāsháf (Hebrew pronunciation: [kɔˈʃaf]) and קֶסֶם‎ (qésem);[111] these same English terms are used to translate φαρμακεία pharmakeia in the Greek New Testament. Verses such as Deuteronomy 18:11–12 and Exodus 22:18 ("Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live") thus provided scriptural justification for Christian witch hunters in the early modern period (see Christian views on magic).
The precise meaning of the Hebrew כָּשַׁף‎, usually translated as "witch" or "sorceress", is uncertain. In the Septuagint, it was translated as pharmakeía or pharmakous. In the 16th century, Reginald Scot, a prominent critic of the witch trials, translated כָּשַׁף‎, φαρμακεία, and the Vulgate's Latin equivalent veneficos as all meaning "poisoner", and on this basis, claimed that "witch" was an incorrect translation and poisoners were intended.[112] His theory still holds some currency, but is not widely accepted, and in Daniel 2:2 כָּשַׁף‎ is listed alongside other magic practitioners who could interpret dreams: magicians, astrologers, and Chaldeans. Suggested derivations of כָּשַׁף‎ include "mutterer" (from a single root) or herb user (as a compound word formed from the roots kash, meaning "herb", and hapaleh, meaning "using"). The Greek φαρμακεία literally means "herbalist" or one who uses or administers drugs, but it was used virtually synonymously with mageia and goeteia as a term for a sorcerer.[113]
The Bible provides some evidence that these commandments against sorcery were enforced under the Hebrew kings:
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit,[a] and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee. And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?[114]
New Testament
See also: Christian views on magic
The New Testament condemns the practice as an abomination, just as the Old Testament had (Galatians 5:20, compared with Revelation 21:8; 22:15; and Acts 8:9; 13:6). The word in most New Testament translations is "sorcerer"/"sorcery" rather than "witch"/"witchcraft".
Judaism
See also: Witchcraft and divination in the Hebrew Bible
Jewish law views the practice of witchcraft as being laden with idolatry and/or necromancy; both being serious theological and practical offenses in Judaism. Although Maimonides vigorously denied the efficacy of all methods of witchcraft, and claimed that the Biblical prohibitions regarding it were precisely to wean the Israelites from practices related to idolatry. It is acknowledged that while magic exists, it is forbidden to practice it on the basis that it usually involves the worship of other gods. Rabbis of the Talmud also condemned magic when it produced something other than illusion, giving the example of two men who use magic to pick cucumbers (Sanhedrin 67a). The one who creates the illusion of picking cucumbers should not be condemned, only the one who actually picks the cucumbers through magic.
However, some of the rabbis practiced "magic" themselves or taught the subject. For instance, Rabbah created a person and sent him to Rav Zeira, and Hanina and Hoshaiah studied every Friday together and created a small calf to eat on Shabbat (Sanhedrin 67b). In these cases, the "magic" was seen more as divine miracles (i.e., coming from God rather than "unclean" forces) than as witchcraft.
Judaism does make it clear that Jews shall not try to learn about the ways of witches (Book of Deuteronomy 18: 9–10) and that witches are to be put to death (Exodus 22:17).
Judaism's most famous reference to a medium is undoubtedly the Witch of Endor whom Saul consults, as recounted in 1 Samuel 28.
Islam
See also: Islam and astrology
Divination, and magic in Islam, encompass a wide range of practices, including black magic, warding off the evil eye, the production of amulets and other magical equipment, evocation, casting lots, and astrology.[115] Muslims do commonly believe in magic (sihr)[116] and explicitly forbid its practice.[117] Sihr translates from Arabic as black magic. The best known reference to magic in Islam is chapter 113 (Al-Falaq) of the Qur'an, which is known[by whom?] as a prayer to God to ward off black magic:[original research?]
Say: I seek refuge with the Lord of the Dawn From the mischief of created things; From the mischief of Darkness as it overspreads; From the mischief of those who practise secret arts; And from the mischief of the envious one as he practises envy. (Qur'an 113:1–5)
Also according to the Qur'an:[117][118]
And they follow that which the devils falsely related against the kingdom of Solomon. Solomon disbelieved not; but the devils disbelieved, teaching mankind sorcery and that which was revealed to the two angels in Babel, Harut and Marut ... And surely they do know that he who trafficketh therein will have no (happy) portion in the Hereafter; and surely evil is the price for which they sell their souls, if they but knew. (Qur'an 2:102)
Islam distinguishes between God-given gifts or good magic and black magic. Good supernatural powers are therefore a special gift from God, whereas black magic is achieved through help of jinn and demons. In the Qurʾānic narrative, the Prophet Sulayman had the power to speak with animals and command jinn, and he thanks God for this نعمة (i.e. gift, privilege, favour, bounty), which is only given to him with God's permission.[Quran 27:19][119] The Prophet Muhammad was accused of being a magician by his opponents.[Quran 10:2][120]
It is a common belief that jinn can possess a human,[121][122] thus requiring exorcism [123] derived from the Prophet's sunnah to cast off the jinn or devils from the body of the possessed. The practice of seeking help from the jinn is prohibited and can lead to possession. The exorcism contains verses of the Qur'an as well as prayers specifically targeted against demons. The knowledge of which verses of the Qur'an to use in what way is what is considered "magic knowledge".[124]
A hadith recorded in Sahih al-Bukhari, 8:76:479 states: "Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord." Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, a scholar, commented on this hadith, stating: That is because these people will enter Paradise without being called to account because of the perfection of their Tawheed, therefore he described them as people who did not ask others to perform ruqyah for them. Hence he said "and they put their trust in their Lord." Because of their complete trust in their Lord, their contentment with Him, their faith in Him, their being pleased with Him and their seeking their needs from Him, they do not ask people for anything, be it ruqyah or anything else, and they are not influenced by omens and superstitions that could prevent them from doing what they want to do, because superstition detracts from and weakens Tawheed".[125]
Ibn al-Nadim holds, exorcists gain their power by their obedience to God, while sorcerers please the demons by acts of disobedience and sacrifices and they in return do him a favor.[126] Being pious and strictly following the teachings of the Qur'an can increase the probability to perform magic or miracles, that is distinguished from witchcraft, the latter practised in aid with demons.[127]
A hadith recorded in Sahih al-Bukhari, 7:71:671 narrates that one who has eaten seven Ajwa dates in the morning will not be adversely affected by magic in the course of that day.[128][129]
Students of the history of religion have linked several magical practises in Islam with pre-Islamic Turkish and East African customs. Most notable of these customs is the Zār.[130][131]
By region
Africa
Further information: Witchcraft accusations against children in Africa
"Djambe" redirects here. For the percussion instrument, see Djembe.
  Shona witchdoctor (n'anga) in Zimbabwe
  The Kolloh-Man (January 1853, X, p.6)[132]
Much of what witchcraft represents in Africa has been susceptible to misunderstandings and confusion, thanks in no small part to a tendency among western scholars since the time of the now largely discredited Margaret Murray to approach the subject through a comparative lens vis-a-vis European witchcraft.[133]
Complimentary remarks about witchcraft by a native Congolese initiate: "From witchcraft ... may be developed the remedy (kimbuki) that will do most to raise up our country."[134] "Witchcraft ... deserves respect ... it can embellish or redeem (ketula evo vuukisa)."[135] "The ancestors were equipped with the protective witchcraft of the clan (kindoki kiandundila kanda). ... They could also gather the power of animals into their hands ... whenever they needed. ... If we could make use of these kinds of witchcraft, our country would rapidly progress in knowledge of every kind."[136] "You witches (zindoki) too, bring your science into the light to be written down so that ... the benefits in it ... endow our race."[137]
Cameroon
In eastern Cameroon, the term used for witchcraft among the Maka is djambe[138] and refers to a force inside a person; its powers may make the proprietor more vulnerable. It encompasses the occult, the transformative, killing and healing.[139]
Central Africa
Every year, hundreds of people in the Central African Republic are convicted of witchcraft.[140] Christian militias in the Central African Republic have also kidnapped, burnt and buried alive women accused of being 'witches' in public ceremonies.[141]
Democratic Republic of the Congo
As of 2006[update], between 25,000 and 50,000 children in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, had been accused of witchcraft and thrown out of their homes.[142] These children have been subjected to often-violent abuse during exorcisms, sometimes supervised by self-styled religious pastors. Other pastors and Christian activists strongly oppose such accusations and try to rescue children from their unscrupulous colleagues.[143] The usual term for these children is enfants sorciers (child witches) or enfants dits sorciers (children accused of witchcraft). In 2002, USAID funded the production of two short films on the subject, made in Kinshasa by journalists Angela Nicoara and Mike Ormsby.
In April 2008, in Kinshasa, the police arrested 14 suspected victims (of penis snatching) and sorcerers accused of using black magic or witchcraft to steal (make disappear) or shrink men's penises to extort cash for cure, amid a wave of panic.[144]
According to one study, the belief in magical warfare technologies (such as "bulletproofing") in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo serves a group-level function, as it increases group efficiency in warfare, even if it is suboptimal at the individual level.[145] The authors of the study argue that this is one reason why the belief in witchcraft persists.[145]
Ghana
In Ghana, women are often accused of witchcraft and attacked by neighbours.[146] Because of this, there exist six witch camps in the country where women suspected of being witches can flee for safety.[147] The witch camps, which exist solely in Ghana, are thought to house a total of around 1000 women.[147] Some of the camps are thought to have been set up over 100 years ago.[147] The Ghanaian government has announced that it intends to close the camps.[147]
Arrests were made in an effort to avoid bloodshed seen in Ghana a decade ago, when 12 alleged penis snatchers were beaten to death by mobs.[148] While it is easy for modern people to dismiss such reports, Uchenna Okeja argues that a belief system in which such magical practices are deemed possible offer many benefits to Africans who hold them. For example, the belief that a sorcerer has "stolen" a man's penis functions as an anxiety-reduction mechanism for men suffering from impotence while simultaneously providing an explanation that is consistent with African cultural beliefs rather than appealing to Western scientific notions that are tainted by the history of colonialism (at least for many Africans).[149]
Kenya
It was reported that a mob in Kenya had burnt to death at least 11 people accused of witchcraft in 2008.[150]
Malawi
In Malawi it is also common practice to accuse children of witchcraft and many children have been abandoned, abused and even killed as a result. As in other African countries both African traditional healers and their Christian counterparts are trying to make a living out of exorcising children and are actively involved in pointing out children as witches.[151] Various secular and Christian organizations are combining their efforts to address this problem.[152]
According to William Kamkwamba, witches and wizards are afraid of money, which they consider a rival evil. Any contact with cash will snap their spell and leave the wizard naked and confused. So placing cash, such as kwacha around a room or bed mat will protect the resident from their malevolent spells.[153]
Nigeria
In Nigeria, several Pentecostal pastors have mixed their evangelical brand of Christianity with African beliefs in witchcraft to benefit from the lucrative witch finding and exorcism business—which in the past was the exclusive domain of the so-called witch doctor or traditional healers. These pastors have been involved in the torturing and even killing of children accused of witchcraft.[154] Over the past decade, around 15,000 children have been accused, and around 1,000 murdered. Churches are very numerous in Nigeria, and competition for congregations is hard. Some pastors attempt to establish a reputation for spiritual power by "detecting" child witches, usually following a death or loss of a job within a family, or an accusation of financial fraud against the pastor. In the course of "exorcisms", accused children may be starved, beaten, mutilated, set on fire, forced to consume acid or cement, or buried alive. While some church leaders and Christian activists have spoken out strongly against these abuses, many Nigerian churches are involved in the abuse, although church administrations deny knowledge of it.[155]
Sierra Leone
Among the Mende (of Sierra Leone), trial and conviction for witchcraft has a beneficial effect for those convicted. "The witchfinder had warned the whole village to ensure the relative prosperity of the accused and sentenced ... old people. ... Six months later all of the people ... accused, were secure, well-fed and arguably happier than at any [previous] time; they had hardly to beckon and people would come with food or whatever was needful. ... Instead of such old and widowed people being left helpless or (as in Western society) institutionalized in old people's homes, these were reintegrated into society and left secure in their old age ... Old people are 'suitable' candidates for this kind of accusation in the sense that they are isolated and vulnerable, and they are 'suitable' candidates for 'social security' for precisely the same reasons."[156] In Kuranko language, the term for witchcraft is suwa'ye[157] referring to "extraordinary powers".
Tanzania
In Tanzania in 2008, President Kikwete publicly condemned witchdoctors for killing albinos for their body parts, which are thought to bring good luck. 25 albinos have been murdered since March 2007.[158] In Tanzania, albinos are often murdered for their body parts on the advice of witch doctors in order to produce powerful amulets that are believed to protect against witchcraft and make the owner prosper in life.[159]
South Africa
Native to the Zulu people, witches called sangoma protect people against evil spirits. They usual train for about five to seven years. In the cities, this training could take only several months.
Another type of witch are the inyanga, who are actual witch doctors that heal people with plant and animal parts. This is a job that is passed on to future generations. In the Zulu population, 80% of people contact inyangas.[160]
Americas
Caribbean
Bruja is an Afro-Caribbean religion and healing tradition that originates in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, in the Dutch Caribbean. A healer in this culture is called a kurioso or kuradó, a man or woman who performs trabou chikí (little works) and trabou grandi (large treatments) to promote or restore health, bring fortune or misfortune, deal with unrequited love, and more serious concerns, in which sorcery is involved. Sorcery usually involves reference to the almasola or homber chiki, a devil-like entity. Transcultural Psychiatry published a paper called "Traditional healing practices originating in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao: A review of the literature on psychiatry and Brua" by Jan Dirk Blom, Igmar T. Poulina, Trevor L. van Gellecum and Hans W. Hoek of the Parnassia Psychiatric Institute.[161]
Colonial North America
  Examination of a Witch by T. H. Matteson, inspired by the Salem witch trials
In 1645, Springfield, Massachusetts, experienced America's first accusations of witchcraft when husband and wife Hugh and Mary Parsons accused each other of witchcraft. At America's first witch trial, Hugh was found innocent, while Mary was acquitted of witchcraft but sentenced to be hanged for the death of her child. She died in prison.[162] From 1645–1663, about eighty people throughout England's Massachusetts Bay Colony were accused of practicing witchcraft. Thirteen women and two men were executed in a witch-hunt that lasted throughout New England from 1645–1663.[163] The Salem witch trials followed in 1692–93. These witch trials were the most famous in British North America and took place in the coastal settlements near Salem, Massachusetts. Prior to the witch trials, nearly 300 men and women had been suspected of partaking in witchcraft, and 19 of these people were hanged, and one was "pressed to death".[164]
Despite being generally known as the "Salem" witch trials, the preliminary hearings in 1692 were conducted in a variety of towns across the province: Salem Village (now Danvers), Salem Town, Ipswich, and Andover. The best known trials were conducted by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town.[165][citation needed][166] In Maryland, there is a legend of Moll Dyer, who escaped a fire set by fellow colonists only to die of exposure in December 1697. The historical record of Dyer is scant as all official records were burned in a courthouse fire, though the county courthouse has on display the rock where her frozen body was found. A letter from a colonist of the period describes her in most unfavourable terms. A local road is named after Dyer, where her homestead was said to have been. Many local families have their own version of the Moll Dyer affair, and her name is spoken with care in the rural southern counties.[167] Accusations of witchcraft and wizardry led to the prosecution of a man in Tennessee as recently as 1833.[168][169][170] The Crucible by Arthur Miller is a dramatized and partially fictionalized story of the Salem witch trials that took place in the Massachusetts Bay Colony during 1692–93.
Diné / Navajo
The yee naaldlooshii is the type of witch known in English as a "skin-walker". They are believed to take the forms of animals in order to travel in secret and do harm to the innocent.[171] In the Navajo language, yee naaldlooshii translates to "with it, he goes on all fours".[171] While perhaps the most common variety seen in horror fiction by non-Navajo people, the yee naaldlooshii is one of several varieties of Navajo witch, specifically a type of ’ánti’įhnii.[171]
Corpse-powder or corpse-poison (Navajo: áńt’į́, literally "witchery" or "harming") is a substance made from powdered corpses. The powder is used by witches to curse their victims.[4]
Traditional Navajos do usually hesitate to discuss things like witches and witchcraft with non-Navajos.[172]
North America (Mexico)
See also: Brujería
Witchcraft was an important part of the social and cultural history of late-Colonial Mexico, during the Mexican Inquisition. Spanish Inquisitors viewed witchcraft as a problem that could be cured simply through confession. Yet, as anthropologist Ruth Behar writes, witchcraft, not only in Mexico but in Latin America in general, was a "conjecture of sexuality, witchcraft, and religion, in which Spanish, indigenous, and African cultures converged."[173] Furthermore, witchcraft in Mexico generally required an interethnic and interclass network of witches.[174] Yet, according to anthropology professor Laura Lewis, witchcraft in colonial Mexico ultimately represented an "affirmation of hegemony" for women, Indians, and especially Indian women over their white male counterparts as a result of the casta system.[175]
South America (Brazil)
The presence of the witch is a constant in the ethnographic history of colonial Brazil, especially during the several denunciations and confessions given to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of Bahia (1591–1593), Pernambuco and Paraíba (1593–1595).[176]
Asia
Main article: Asian witchcraft
India
Belief in the supernatural is strong in all parts of India, and lynchings for witchcraft are reported in the press from time to time.[177] Around 750 people were killed as witches in Assam and West Bengal between 2003 and 2008.[178] Officials in the state of Chhattisgarh reported in 2008 that at least 100 women are maltreated annually as suspected witches.[179] A local activist stated that only a fraction of cases of abuse are reported.[180] In Indian mythology, a common perception of a witch is a being with her feet pointed backwards.
Nepal
Apart from other types of Violence against women in Nepal, the malpractice of abusing women in the name of witchcraft is also really prominent. According to the statistics in 2013, there was a total of 69 reported cases of abuse to women due to accusation of performing witchcraft. The perpetrators of this malpractice are usually neighbors, so-called witch doctors and family members.[181] The main causes of these malpractices are lack of education, lack of awareness and superstition. According to the statistics by INSEC,[182] the age group of women who fall victims to the witchcraft violence in Nepal is 20–40.[183]
Japan
  Okabe – The cat witch, by Utagawa Kuniyoshi
In Japanese folklore, the most common types of witch can be separated into two categories: those who employ snakes as familiars, and those who employ foxes.[184] The fox witch is, by far, the most commonly seen witch figure in Japan. Differing regional beliefs set those who use foxes into two separate types: the kitsune-mochi, and the tsukimono-suji. The first of these, the kitsune-mochi, is a solitary figure who gains his fox familiar by bribing it with its favourite foods. The kitsune-mochi then strikes up a deal with the fox, typically promising food and daily care in return for the fox's magical services. The fox of Japanese folklore is a powerful trickster in and of itself, imbued with powers of shape changing, possession, and illusion. These creatures can be either nefarious; disguising themselves as women in order to trap men, or they can be benign forces as in the story of "The Grateful foxes".[185] By far, the most commonly reported cases of fox witchcraft in modern Japan are enacted by tsukimono-suji families, or "hereditary witches".[186]
Philippines
Main article: Philippine witches
Philippine witches are the users of black magic and related practices from the Philippines. They include a variety of different kinds of people with differing occupations and cultural connotations which depend on the ethnic group they are associated with. They are completely different from the Western notion of what a witch is, as each ethnic group has their own definition and practices attributed to witches. The curses and other magics of witches are often blocked, countered, cured, or lifted by Philippine shamans associated with the indigenous Philippine folk religions.[187][188]
Saudi Arabia
Main articles: Capital punishment in Saudi Arabia, Freedom of religion in Saudi Arabia, and Human rights in Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia continues to use the death penalty for sorcery and witchcraft.[189] In 2006 Fawza Falih Muhammad Ali was condemned to death for practicing witchcraft.[190] There is no legal definition of sorcery in Saudi, but in 2007 an Egyptian pharmacist working there was accused, convicted, and executed. Saudi authorities also pronounced the death penalty on a Lebanese television presenter, Ali Hussain Sibat, while he was performing the hajj (Islamic pilgrimage) in the country.[191]
In 2009, the Saudi authorities set up the Anti-Witchcraft Unit of their Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice police.[192] In April 2009, a Saudi woman Amina Bint Abdulhalim Nassar was arrested and later sentenced to death for practicing witchcraft and sorcery. In December 2011, she was beheaded.[193] A Saudi man has been beheaded on charges of sorcery and witchcraft in June 2012.[194] A beheading for sorcery occurred in 2014.[58]
Syria and Iraq
See also: Human rights in ISIL-controlled territory
In June 2015, Yahoo reported: "The Islamic State group has beheaded two women in Syria on accusations of "sorcery", the first such executions of female civilians in Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Tuesday."[195]
Tocharians
An expedition sent to what is now the Xinjiang region of western China by the PBS documentary series Nova found a fully clothed female Tocharian mummy wearing a black conical hat of the type now associated with witches in Europe in the storage area of a small local museum, indicative of an Indo-European priestess.[196]
Europe
Main articles: European witchcraft and Witch trials in Early Modern Europe
  Francisco Goya's Los Caprichos: ¡Linda maestra! ("The Follies: Beautiful Teacher!") – witches heading to a Sabbath
  Albrecht Dürer circa 1500: Witch riding backwards on a goat
  During the Christianisation of Norway, King Olaf Trygvasson had male völvas (shamans) tied up and left on a skerry at ebb
Witchcraft in Europe between 500–1750 was believed to be a combination of sorcery and heresy. While sorcery attempts to produce negative supernatural effects through formulas and rituals, heresy is the Christian contribution to witchcraft in which an individual makes a pact with the Devil. In addition, heresy denies witches the recognition of important Christian values such as baptism, salvation, Christ and sacraments.[197] The beginning of the witch accusations in Europe took place in the 14th and 15th centuries; however as the social disruptions of the 16th century took place, witchcraft trials intensified.[198]   Burning of witches. Current scholarly estimates of the number of people executed for witchcraft vary between about 40,000 and 100,000.[199] The total number of witch trials in Europe known for certain to have ended in executions is around 12,000.[200]
In Early Modern European tradition, witches were stereotypically, though not exclusively, women.[35][201] European pagan belief in witchcraft was associated with the goddess Diana and dismissed as "diabolical fantasies" by medieval Christian authors.[202] Witch-hunts first appeared in large numbers in southern France and Switzerland during the 14th and 15th centuries. The peak years of witch-hunts in southwest Germany were from 1561 to 1670.[203]
It was commonly believed that individuals with power and prestige were involved in acts of witchcraft and even cannibalism.[204] Because Europe had a lot of power over individuals living in West Africa, Europeans in positions of power were often accused of taking part in these practices. Though it is not likely that these individuals were actually involved in these practices, they were most likely associated due to Europe's involvement in things like the slave trade, which negatively affected the lives of many individuals in the Atlantic World throughout the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries.[204]
Early converts to Christianity looked to Christian clergy to work magic more effectively than the old methods under Roman paganism, and Christianity provided a methodology involving saints and relics, similar to the gods and amulets of the Pagan world. As Christianity became the dominant religion in Europe, its concern with magic lessened.[205]
The Protestant Christian explanation for witchcraft, such as those typified in the confessions of the Pendle witches, commonly involves a diabolical pact or at least an appeal to the intervention of the spirits of evil. The witches or wizards engaged in such practices were alleged to reject Jesus and the sacraments; observe "the witches' sabbath" (performing infernal rites that often parodied the Mass or other sacraments of the Church); pay Divine honour to the Prince of Darkness; and, in return, receive from him preternatural powers. It was a folkloric belief that a Devil's Mark, like the brand on cattle, was placed upon a witch's skin by the devil to signify that this pact had been made.[206]
United Kingdom
Further information: Witch trials in early modern Scotland
In the north of England, the superstition lingers to an almost inconceivable extent. Lancashire abounds with witch-doctors, a set of quacks, who pretend to cure diseases inflicted by the devil ... The witch-doctor alluded to is better known by the name of the cunning man, and has a large practice in the counties of Lincoln and Nottingham.[207]
Historians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane study witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology.[208][209][210] They argued that English witchcraft, like African witchcraft, was endemic rather than epidemic. Older women were the favorite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.[211]
  Illustration of witches, perhaps being tortured before James VI, from his Daemonologie (1597)
In Wales, fear of witchcraft mounted around the year 1500. There was a growing alarm of women's magic as a weapon aimed against the state and church. The Church made greater efforts to enforce the canon law of marriage, especially in Wales where tradition allowed a wider range of sexual partnerships. There was a political dimension as well, as accusations of witchcraft were levied against the enemies of Henry VII, who was exerting more and more control over Wales.[212]
The records of the Courts of Great Sessions for Wales, 1536–1736 show that Welsh custom was more important than English law. Custom provided a framework of responding to witches and witchcraft in such a way that interpersonal and communal harmony was maintained, Showing to regard to the importance of honour, social place and cultural status. Even when found guilty, execution did not occur.[213]
Becoming king in 1603, James I Brought to England and Scotland continental explanations of witchcraft. His goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil.[214]
In 1944 Helen Duncan was the last person in Britain to be imprisoned for fraudulently claiming to be a witch.[215]
In the United Kingdom children believed to be witches or seen as possessed by evil spirits can be subject to severe beatings, traumatic exorcism, and/or other abuse. There have even been child murders associated with witchcraft beliefs. The problem is particularly serious among immigrant or former immigrant communities of African origin but other communities, such as those of Asian origin are also involved. Step children and children seen as different for a wide range of reasons are particularly at risk of witchcraft accusations.[216] Children may be beaten or have chilli rubbed into their eyes during exorcisms.[217] This type of abuse is frequently hidden and can include torture.[218] A 2006 recommendation to record abuse cases linked to witchcraft centrally has not yet been implemented. Lack of awareness among social workers, teachers and other professionals dealing with at risk children hinders efforts to combat the problem.[219]
The Metropolitan Police said there had been 60 crimes linked to faith in London so far [in 2015]. It saw reports double from 23 in 2013 to 46 in 2014. Half of UK police forces do not record such cases and many local authorities are also unable to provide figures. The NSPCC said authorities "need to ensure they are able to spot the signs of this particular brand of abuse". London is unique in having a police team, Project Violet, dedicated to this type of abuse. Its figures relate to crime reports where officers have flagged a case as involving abuse linked to faith or belief. Many of the cases involve children. (...) An NSPCC spokesman said: "While the number of child abuse cases involving witchcraft is relatively small, they often include horrifying levels of cruelty. "The authorities which deal with these dreadful crimes need to ensure they are able to spot the signs of this particular brand of abuse and take action to protect children before a tragedy occurs."[219]
There is a 'money making scam' involved. Pastors accuse a child of being a witch and later the family pays for exorcism. If a child at school says that his/her pastor called the child a witch that should become a child safeguarding issue.[219]
Italy
A particularly rich source of information about witchcraft in Italy before the outbreak of the Great Witch Hunts of the Renaissance are the sermons of Franciscan popular preacher, Bernardino of Siena (1380–1444), who saw the issue as one of the most pressing moral and social challenges of his day and thus preached many a sermon on the subject, inspiring many local governments to take actions against what he called "servants of the Devil."[220] As in most European countries, women in Italy were more likely suspected of witchcraft than men.[221] Women were considered dangerous due to their supposed sexual instability, such as when being aroused, and also due to the powers of their menstrual blood.[222]
In the 16th century, Italy had a high portion of witchcraft trials involving love magic.[223] The country had a large number of unmarried people due to men marrying later in their lives during this time.[223] This left many women on a desperate quest for marriage leaving them vulnerable to the accusation of witchcraft whether they took part in it or not.[223] Trial records from the Inquisition and secular courts discovered a link between prostitutes and supernatural practices. Professional prostitutes were considered experts in love and therefore knew how to make love potions and cast love related spells.[222] Up until 1630, the majority of women accused of witchcraft were prostitutes.[221] A courtesan was questioned about her use of magic due to her relationship with men of power in Italy and her wealth.[224] The majority of women accused were also considered "outsiders" because they were poor, had different religious practices, spoke a different language, or simply from a different city/town/region.[225] Cassandra from Ferrara, Italy, was still considered a foreigner because not native to Rome where she was residing. She was also not seen as a model citizen because her husband was in Venice.[226]
From the 16th-18th centuries, the Catholic Church enforced moral discipline throughout Italy.[227] With the help of local tribunals, such as in Venice, the two institutions investigated a woman's religious behaviors when she was accused of witchcraft.[221]
Spain
Main articles: Akelarre (witchcraft), Catalan mythology about witches, Galicians, and Galicia (Spain)
Franciscan friars from New Spain introduced Diabolism, belief in the devil, to the indigenous people after their arrival in 1524.[228]
Bartolomé de las Casas believed that human sacrifice was not diabolic, in fact far off from it, and was a natural result of religious expression.[228]
Mexican Indians gladly took in the belief of Diabolism and still managed to keep their belief in creator-destroyer deities.[229]
Galicia is nicknamed the "Land of the Witches" due to its mythological origins surrounding its people, culture and its land.[230][231] The Basque Country also suffered persecutions against witches, such as the case of the Witches of Zugarramurdi, six of which were burned in Logroño in 1610 or the witch hunt in the French Basque country in the previous year with the burning of eighty supposed witches at the stake. This is reflected in the studies of José Miguel de Barandiarán and Julio Caro Baroja. Euskal Herria retains numerous legends that account for an ancient mythology of witchcraft. The town of Zalla is nicknamed as "Town of the Witches".[232]
Oceania
Cook Islands
In pre-Christian times, witchcraft was a common practice in the Cook Islands. The native name for a sorcerer was tangata purepure (a man who prays).[233] The prayers offered by the ta'unga (priests)[234] to the gods worshiped on national or tribal marae (temples) were termed karakia;[235] those on minor occasions to the lesser gods were named pure. All these prayers were metrical, and were handed down from generation to generation with the utmost care. There were prayers for every such phase in life; for success in battle; for a change in wind (to overwhelm an adversary at sea, or that an intended voyage be propitious); that his crops may grow; to curse a thief; or wish ill-luck and death to his foes. Few men of middle age were without a number of these prayers or charms. The succession of a sorcerer was from father to son, or from uncle to nephew. So too of sorceresses: it would be from mother to daughter, or from aunt to niece. Sorcerers and sorceresses were often slain by relatives of their supposed victims.[236]
A singular enchantment was employed to kill off a husband of a pretty woman desired by someone else. The expanded flower of a Gardenia was stuck upright—a very difficult performance—in a cup (i.e., half a large coconut shell) of water. A prayer was then offered for the husband's speedy death, the sorcerer earnestly watching the flower. Should it fall the incantation was successful. But if the flower still remained upright, he will live. The sorcerer would in that case try his skill another day, with perhaps better success.[237]
According to Beatrice Grimshaw, a journalist who visited the Cook Islands in 1907, the uncrowned Queen Makea was believed to have possessed the mystic power called mana, giving the possessor the power to slay at will. It also included other gifts, such as second sight to a certain extent, the power to bring good or evil luck, and the ability already mentioned to deal death at will.[238]
Papua New Guinea
A local newspaper informed that more than 50 people were killed in two Highlands provinces of Papua New Guinea in 2008 for allegedly practicing witchcraft.[239] An estimated 50–150 alleged witches are killed each year in Papua New Guinea.[240]
Fiji
It was reported in 2019 that a father blamed witchcraft for the death of his family, claiming that his in-laws were "too much into witchcraft".[241]
Russia
Among the Russian words for witch, ведьма (ved'ma) literally means "one who knows", from Old Slavic вѣдъ "to know".[242]
Spells
Pagan practices formed a part of Russian and Eastern Slavic culture; the Russian people were deeply superstitious. The witchcraft practiced consisted mostly of earth magic and herbology; it was not so significant which herbs were used in practices, but how these herbs were gathered. Ritual centered on harvest of the crops and the location of the sun was very important.[243] One source, pagan author Judika Illes, tells that herbs picked on Midsummer's Eve were believed to be most powerful, especially if gathered on Bald Mountain near Kiev during the witches' annual revels celebration.[244] Botanicals should be gathered, "During the seventeenth minute of the fourteenth hour, under a dark moon, in the thirteenth field, wearing a red dress, pick the twelfth flower on the right."[245]
Spells also served for midwifery, shape-shifting, keeping lovers faithful, and bridal customs. Spells dealing with midwifery and childbirth focused on the spiritual wellbeing of the baby.[245] Shape-shifting spells involved invocation of the wolf as a spirit animal.[246] To keep men faithful, lovers would cut a ribbon the length of his erect penis and soak it in his seminal emissions after sex while he was sleeping, then tie seven knots in it; keeping this talisman of knot magic ensured loyalty.[247] Part of an ancient pagan marriage tradition involved the bride taking a ritual bath at a bathhouse before the ceremony. Her sweat would be wiped from her body using raw fish, and the fish would be cooked and fed to the groom.[248]
Demonism, or black magic, was not prevalent. Persecution for witchcraft, mostly involved the practice of simple earth magic, founded on herbology, by solitary practitioners with a Christian influence. In one case investigators found a locked box containing something bundled in a kerchief and three paper packets, wrapped and tied, containing crushed grasses.[249] Most rituals of witchcraft were very simple—one spell of divination consists of sitting alone outside meditating, asking the earth to show one's fate.[250]
While these customs were unique to Russian culture, they were not exclusive to this region. Russian pagan practices were often akin to paganism in other parts of the world. The Chinese concept of chi, a form of energy that often manipulated in witchcraft, is known as bioplasma in Russian practices.[251] The western concept of an "evil eye" or a "hex" was translated to Russia as a "spoiler".[252] A spoiler was rooted in envy, jealousy and malice. Spoilers could be made by gathering bone from a cemetery, a knot of the target's hair, burned wooden splinters and several herb Paris berries (which are very poisonous). Placing these items in sachet in the victim's pillow completes a spoiler. The Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians, and the ancient Egyptians recognized the evil eye from as early as 3,000 BCE; in Russian practices it is seen as a sixteenth-century concept.[253]
Societal view of witchcraft
The dominant societal concern those practicing witchcraft was not whether paganism was effective, but whether it could cause harm.[249] Peasants in Russian and Ukrainian societies often shunned witchcraft, unless they needed help against supernatural forces. Impotence, stomach pains, barrenness, hernias, abscesses, epileptic seizures, and convulsions were all attributed to evil (or witchcraft). This is reflected in linguistics; there are numerous words for a variety of practitioners of paganism-based healers. Russian peasants referred to a witch as a chernoknizhnik (a person who plied his trade with the aid of a black book), sheptun/sheptun'ia (a "whisperer" male or female), lekar/lekarka or znakhar/znakharka (a male or female healer), or zagovornik (an incanter).[254]
Ironically enough, there was universal reliance on folk healers – but clients often turned them in if something went wrong. According to Russian historian Valerie A. Kivelson, witchcraft accusations were normally thrown at lower-class peasants, townspeople and Cossacks. People turned to witchcraft as a means to support themselves. The ratio of male to female accusations was 75% to 25%. Males were targeted more, because witchcraft was associated with societal deviation. Because single people with no settled home could not be taxed, males typically had more power than women in their dissent.[249]
The history of Witchcraft had evolved around society. More of a psychological concept to the creation and usage of Witchcraft can create the assumption as to why women are more likely to follow the practices behind Witchcraft. Identifying with the soul of an individual's self is often deemed as "feminine" in society. There is analyzed social and economic evidence to associate between witchcraft and women.[255]
Witchcraft trials
  A true and iust Recorde, of the Information, Examination and Confession of all witches...
Witchcraft trials frequently occurred in seventeenth-century Russia, although the "great witch-hunt" is believed[by whom?] to be a predominantly Western European phenomenon. However, as the witchcraft-trial craze swept across Catholic and Protestant countries during this time, Orthodox Christian Europe indeed partook in this so-called "witch hysteria." This involved the persecution of both males and females who were believed to be practicing paganism, herbology, the black art, or a form of sorcery within and/or outside their community. Very early on witchcraft legally fell under the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical body, the church, in Kievan Rus' and Muscovite Russia.[256] Sources of ecclesiastical witchcraft jurisdiction date back as early as the second half of the eleventh century, one being Vladimir the Great's first edition of his State Statute or Ustav, another being multiple references in the Primary Chronicle beginning in 1024.[257]
  Goya's drawing of result of a presumed witch's trial: " [so she must be a witch]"[258]
The sentence for an individual who was found guilty of witchcraft or sorcery during this time, as well as in previous centuries, typically included either burning at the stake or being tested with the "ordeal of cold water" or judicium aquae frigidae.[259] The cold-water test was primarily a Western European phenomenon, but it was also used as a method of truth in Russia both prior to, and post, seventeenth-century witchcraft trials in Muscovy. Accused persons who submerged were considered innocent, and ecclesiastical authorities would proclaim them "brought back", but those who floated were considered guilty of practicing witchcraft, and they were either burned at the stake or executed in an unholy fashion. The thirteenth-century bishop of Vladimir, Serapion Vladimirskii, preached sermons throughout the Muscovite countryside, and in one particular sermon revealed that burning was the usual punishment for witchcraft, but more often the cold water test was used as a precursor to execution.[259][260]
Although these two methods of torture were used in the west and the east, Russia implemented a system of fines payable for the crime of witchcraft during the seventeenth century. Thus, even though torture methods in Muscovy were on a similar level of harshness as Western European methods used, a more civil method was present. In the introduction of a collection of trial records pieced together by Russian scholar Nikolai Novombergsk, he argues that Muscovite authorities used the same degree of cruelty and harshness as Western European Catholic and Protestant countries in persecuting witches.[261] By the mid-sixteenth century the manifestations of paganism, including witchcraft, and the black arts—astrology, fortune telling, and divination—became a serious concern to the Muscovite church and state.[262]
Tsar Ivan IV (reigned 1547–1584) took this matter to the ecclesiastical court and was immediately advised that individuals practicing these forms of witchcraft should be excommunicated and given the death penalty.[262] Ivan IV, as a true believer in witchcraft, was deeply convinced[citation needed] that sorcery accounted for the death of his wife, Anastasiia in 1560, which completely devastated and depressed him, leaving him heartbroken.[263] Stemming from this belief, Ivan IV became majorly concerned with the threat of witchcraft harming his family, and feared he was in danger. So, during the Oprichnina (1565–1572), Ivan IV succeeded in accusing and charging a good number of boyars with witchcraft whom he did not wish to remain as nobles. Rulers after Ivan IV, specifically during the Time of Troubles (1598–1613), increased the fear of witchcraft among themselves and entire royal families, which then led to further preoccupation with the fear of prominent Muscovite witchcraft circles.[264]
After the Time of Troubles, seventeenth-century Muscovite rulers held frequent investigations of witchcraft within their households, laying the groundwork, along with previous tsarist reforms, for widespread witchcraft trials throughout the Muscovite state.[265] Between 1622 and 1700 ninety-one people were brought to trial in Muscovite courts for witchcraft.[266] Although Russia did partake in the witch craze that swept across Western Europe, the Muscovite state did not persecute nearly as many people for witchcraft, let alone execute a number of individuals anywhere close to the number executed in the west during the witch hysteria.
Witches in art
  Louhi, a powerful and wicked witch queen of the land known as Pohjola in the Finnish epic poetry Kalevala, attacking Väinämöinen in the form of a giant eagle with her troops on her back. (The Defense of the Sampo, Akseli Gallen-Kallela, 1896)
Witches have a long history of being depicted in art, although most of their earliest artistic depictions seem to originate in Early Modern Europe, particularly the Medieval and Renaissance periods. Many scholars attribute their manifestation in art as inspired by texts such as Canon Episcopi, a demonology-centered work of literature, and Malleus Maleficarum, a "witch-craze" manual published in 1487, by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger.[267]
Canon Episcopi, a ninth-century text that explored the subject of demonology, initially introduced concepts that would continuously be associated with witches, such as their ability to fly or their believed fornication and sexual relations with the devil. The text refers to two women, Diana the Huntress and Herodias, who both express the duality of female sorcerers. Diana was described as having a heavenly body and as the "protectress of childbirth and fertility" while Herodias symbolized "unbridled sensuality". They thus represent the mental powers and cunning sexuality that witches used as weapons to trick men into performing sinful acts which would result in their eternal punishment. These characteristics were distinguished as Medusa-like or Lamia-like traits when seen in any artwork (Medusa's mental trickery was associated with Diana the Huntress's psychic powers and Lamia was a rumored female figure in the Medieval ages sometimes used in place of Herodias).[268]
One of the first individuals to regularly depict witches after the witch-craze of the medieval period was Albrecht Dürer, a German Renaissance artist. His famous 1497 engraving The Four Witches, portrays four physically attractive and seductive nude witches. Their supernatural identities are emphasized by the skulls and bones lying at their feet as well as the devil discreetly peering at them from their left. The women's sensuous presentation speaks to the overtly sexual nature they were attached to in early modern Europe. Moreover, this attractiveness was perceived as a danger to ordinary men who they could seduce and tempt into their sinful world.[222] Some scholars interpret this piece as utilizing the logic of the Canon Episcopi, in which women used their mental powers and bodily seduction to enslave and lead men onto a path of eternal damnation, differing from the unattractive depiction of witches that would follow in later Renaissance years.[269]
Dürer also employed other ideas from the Middle Ages that were commonly associated with witches. Specifically, his art often referred to former 12th- to 13th-century Medieval iconography addressing the nature of female sorcerers. In the Medieval period, there was a widespread fear of witches, accordingly producing an association of dark, intimidating characteristics with witches, such as cannibalism (witches described as "[sucking] the blood of newborn infants"[222]) or described as having the ability to fly, usually on the back of black goats. As the Renaissance period began, these concepts of witchcraft were suppressed, leading to a drastic change in the sorceress' appearances, from sexually explicit beings to the 'ordinary' typical housewives of this time period. This depiction, known as the 'Waldensian' witch became a cultural phenomenon of early Renaissance art. The term originates from the 12th-century monk Peter Waldo, who established his own religious sect which explicitly opposed the luxury and commodity-influenced lifestyle of the Christian church clergy, and whose sect was excommunicated before being persecuted as "practitioners of witchcraft and magic".[222]
Subsequent artwork exhibiting witches tended to consistently rely on cultural stereotypes about these women. These stereotypes were usually rooted in early Renaissance religious discourse, specifically the Christian belief that an "earthly alliance" had taken place between Satan's female minions who "conspired to destroy Christendom".[270]
Another significant artist whose art consistently depicted witches was Dürer's apprentice, Hans Baldung Grien, a 15th-century German artist. His chiaroscuro woodcut, Witches, created in 1510, visually encompassed all the characteristics that were regularly assigned to witches during the Renaissance. Social beliefs labeled witches as supernatural beings capable of doing great harm, possessing the ability to fly, and as cannibalistic.[270] The urn in Witches seems to contain pieces of the human body, which the witches are seen consuming as a source of energy. Meanwhile, their nudity while feasting is recognized as an allusion to their sexual appetite, and some scholars read the witch riding on the back of a goat-demon as representative of their "flight-inducing [powers]". This connection between women's sexual nature and sins was thematic in the pieces of many Renaissance artists, especially Christian artists, due to cultural beliefs which characterized women as overtly sexual beings who were less capable (in comparison to men) of resisting sinful temptation.[222]
See also
Neoshamanism
Modern paganism
Kitchen witch
Footnotes
^ The Hebrew word אֹב‎ (ob), rendered as familiar spirit in the translated, has a different meaning than the usual English sense of the phrase; namely, it refers to a spirit that the woman is familiar with, rather than to a spirit that physically manifests itself in the shape of an animal.
References
^ a b Russell, Jeffrey Burton (1972). Witchcraft in the Middle Ages. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press. pp. 4-10. ISBN 978-0801492891. witchcraft definition..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b Thomas, Keith (1997). Religion and the Decline of Magic. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. pp. 464–5. ISBN 978-0-297-00220-8.; Ankarloo, Bengt and Henningsen, Gustav (1990) Early Modern European Witchcraft: Centres and Peripheries. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 1, 14.
^ a b Wilby, Emma (2006) Cunning Folk and Familiar Spirits. pp. 51–4.
^ a b Perrone, Bobette; Stockel, H. Henrietta; Krueger, Victoria (1993). Medicine women, curanderas, and women doctors. University of Oklahoma Press. p. 189. ISBN 978-0-8061-2512-1. Retrieved 8 October 2010.
^ a b Kielburger, Craig; Kielburger, Marc (18 February 2008). "HIV in Africa: Distinguishing disease from witchcraft". Toronto Star. Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd.
^ Demetrio, F. R. (1988). Philippine Studies Vol. 36, No. 3: Shamans, Witches and Philippine Society, pp. 372-380. Ateneo de Manila University.
^ a b Huson, Paul Mastering Witchcraft: a Practical Guide for Witches, Warlocks, and Covens, New York: G.P. Putnams Sons, 1970.
^ a b Clifton, Chas S., Her Hidden Children: The Rise of Wicca and Paganism in America, Lanham, MD: Altamira, 2006, ISBN 0-7591-0202-3.
^ a b Ankarloo &amp; Clark, 2001
^ Ankarloo, Bengt; Clark, Stuart (2001). Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: Biblical and Pagan Societies. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: University of Philadelphia Press. p. xiii. ISBN 978-0826486066. Magic is central not only in 'primitive' societies but in 'high cultural' societies as well.
^ Russell, Jeffrey Burton. "Witchcraft". Britannica.com. Retrieved June 29, 2013.
^ Pócs 1999, pp. 9–12.
^ Adler, Margot (1979). Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers, and Other Pagans in America Today. New York City: Viking Press. pp. 45–47, 84–5, 105. OCLC 515560.
^ Pearlman, Jonathan (11 April 2013). "Papua New Guinea urged to halt witchcraft violence after latest 'sorcery' case". The Telegraph. London, England: Telegraph Media Group.
^ "Ebola outbreak: 'Witchcraft' hampering treatment, says doctor". BBC News. London, England: BBC. 2 August 2014. citing a doctor from Médecins Sans Frontières: "A widespread belief in witchcraft is hampering efforts to halt the Ebola virus from spreading"
^ "Social stigma as an epidemiological determinant for leprosy elimination in Cameroon". Journal of Public Health in Africa.
^ Akosua, Adu (3 September 2014). "Ebola: Human Rights Group Warns Disease Is Not Caused By Witchcraft". The Ghana-Italy News. Archived from the original on 3 September 2014. Retrieved 31 October 2017.
^ Harper, Douglas. "witchcraft (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Retrieved 29 October 2013.
^ "Oxford English Dictionary".
^ Dilts, Michael. "Power in the Name: The Origin and Meaning of the Word "Witch"". Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ Cohn, Norman (1975). Europe's Inner Demons. New York City: Basic Books. pp. 176-9. ISBN 978-0-465-02131-4.
^ Evans-Pritchard, Edward Evan (1937). Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic Among the Azande. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. pp. 8–9. ISBN 978-0-19-874029-2.
^ a b c Pócs 1999 pp. 9–10. The first three categories were proposed by Richard Kieckhefer, the fourth added by Christina Larner.
^ Gevitz, Norman (January 2000). ""The Devil Hath Laughed at the Physicians": Witchcraft and Medical Practice in Seventeenth-Century New England". Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. 55 (1): 5–36. doi:10.1093/jhmas/55.1.5. PMID 10734719. S2CID 34316854 – via Project MUSE.
^ Hutton, Ronald (2006). Witches, Druids and King Arthur. London, England: A&amp;C Black. p. 203. ISBN 9781852855550.
^ Oxford English Dictionary, the Compact Edition. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. 1971. p. 2955.
^ Luck, Georg (1985). Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Roman Worlds; a Collection of Ancient Texts. Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press. pp. 254, 260, 394. ISBN 978-0801825231.
^ Kittredge, George Lyman (1929). Witchcraft in Old and New England. New York City: Russell &amp; Russell. p. 172. ISBN 9780674182325.
^ Davies, Owen (1999). Witchcraft, Magic and Culture, 1736–1951. Manchester, England: Manchester University Press. ISBN 978-0719056567.
^ Semple, Sarah (2003). "Illustrations of damnation in late Anglo-Saxon manuscripts" (PDF). Anglo-Saxon England. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. 32: 231–245. doi:10.1017/S0263675103000115.
^ Semple, Sarah (19 June 1998). "A Fear of the Past: The Place of the Prehistoric Burial Mound in the Ideology of Middle and Later Anglo-Saxon England". World Archaeology. London, England: Routledge. 30 (1): 109–126. doi:10.1080/00438243.1998.9980400. JSTOR 125012.
^ Pope, J.C. (1968). Homilies of Aelfric: a supplementary collection (Early English Text Society 260). II. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. p. 796.
^ Meaney, Audrey L. (December 1984). "Aelfric and Idolatry". Journal of Religious History. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley-Blackwell. 13 (2): 119–35. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9809.1984.tb00191.x. Archived from the original on January 5, 2013.
^ Mormando, Franco (1999). The Preacher's Demons: Bernardino of Siena and the Social Underworld of Early Renaissance Italy. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press. pp. 52–108. ISBN 0-226-53854-0.
^ a b Gibbons, Jenny (1998) "Recent Developments in the Study of the Great European Witch Hunt" in The Pomegranate #5, Lammas 1998.
^ Barstow, Anne Llewellyn (1994). Witchcraze: A New History of the European Witch Hunts. San Francisco, California: Pandora. p. 23. ISBN 978-0062500496.
^ McNeill, F. Marian (1957). The Silver Bough: A Four Volume Study of the National and Local Festivals of Scotland. 1. Edinburgh, Scotland: Canongate Books. ISBN 978-0862412319.
^ Chambers, Robert (1861). Domestic Annals of Scotland. Edinburgh, Scotland. ISBN 978-1298711960.
^ Sinclair, George (1871). Satan's Invisible World Discovered. Edinburgh, Scotland.
^ Campbell, Heather M., ed. (2011). The Emergence of Modern Europe: C. 1500 to 1788. Britannica Educational Publishing. p. 27. ISBN 9781615303434. Retrieved June 29, 2013.
^ Jolly, Karen; Raudvere, Catharina; Peters, Edward (2002). Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: The Middle Ages. New York City: A&amp;C Black. p. 241. ISBN 978-0485890037. In 1538 the Spanish Inquisition cautioned its members not to believe everything the Malleus said, even when it presented apparently firm evidence.
^ Macfarlane, Alan (31 October 1999). Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England: A Regional and Comparative Study. Psychology Press. ISBN 9780415196123. Retrieved 31 October 2017 – via Google Books.
^ Scot, Reginald (1584). "Chapter 9". The Discoverie of Witchcraft. Booke V.
^ Emma Wilby 2005 p. 123; See also Alan Macfarlane p. 127 who notes how "white witches" could later be accused as "black witches".
^ Monter () Witchcraft in France and Switzerland. Ch. 7: "White versus Black Witchcraft".
^ Pócs 1999, p. 12.
^ Ginzburg (1990) Part 2, Ch. 1.
^ Pócs 1999 pp. 10–11.
^ Pócs 1999 pp. 11–12.
^ "A Global Issue that Demands Action" (PDF). the Academic Council on the United Nations System (ACUNS) Vienna Liaison Office. 2013. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ "CONFLICT BETWEEN STATE LEGAL NORMS AND NORMS UNDERLYING POPULAR BELIEFS: WITCHCRAFT IN AFRICA AS A CASE STUDY". DUKE JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE &amp; INTERNATIONAL LAW, Vol 14:351. 2005. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ "WITCH HUNTS IN MODERN SOUTH AFRICA: AN UNDER-REPRESENTED FACET OF GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE" (PDF). MRC-UNISA Crime, Violence and Injury Lead Programm. June 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-04-25. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ "NEPAL: Witchcraft as a Superstition and a form of violence against women in Nepal". Humanrights.asia. Asian Human Rights Commission. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ Mensah Adinkrah (2004-04-01). "Witchcraft Accusations and Female Homicide Victimization in Contemporary Ghana". Violence Against Women. 10 (4): 325–356. doi:10.1177/1077801204263419. S2CID 146650565.
^ "World Report on Violence and Health" (PDF). World Health Organization. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ "Saudi woman beheaded for 'witchcraft and sorcery' - CNN.com". Edition.cnn.com. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ "BBC News – Saudi man executed for 'witchcraft and sorcery'". BBC News. Bbc.com. 2012-06-19. Retrieved 2014-06-07.
^ a b di Giovanni, Janine (14 October 2014). "When It Comes to Beheadings, ISIS Has Nothing Over Saudi Arabia". Newsweek. Retrieved 17 October 2014.
^ Bussien, Nathaly et al. 2011. Breaking the spell: Responding to witchcraft accusations against children, in New Issues in refugee Research (197). Geneva, Switzerland: UNHCR
^ Cimpric, Aleksandra 2010. Children accused of witchcraft, An anthropological study of contemporary practices in Africa. Dakar, Senegal: UNICEF WCARO
^ Molina, Javier Aguilar 2006. The Invention of Child Witches in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Social cleansing, religious commerce and the difficulties of being a parent in an urban culture. London: Save the Children
^ Human Rights Watch 2006. Children in the DRC. Human Rights Watch report, 18 (2)
^ "BBC News – Witchcraft murder: Couple jailed for Kristy Bamu killing". BBC News. Bbc.co.uk. 2012-03-05. Retrieved 2014-06-08.
^ Dangerfield, Andy (2012-03-01). "BBC News – Government urged to tackle 'witchcraft belief' child abuse". BBC News. Bbc.co.uk. Retrieved 2014-06-08.
^ Rose, Elliot, A Razor for a Goat, University of Toronto Press, 1962. Hutton, Ronald, The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles, Cambridge, Mass.: Blackwell Publishers, 1993. Hutton, Ronald, The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft, Oxford University Press, 1999.
^ Heselton, Philip (2000). Wiccan Roots. ISBN 978-1-86163-110-7.
^ Heselton, Philip. Gerald Gardner and the Cauldron of Inspiration. ISBN 978-1-86163-164-0.
^ Kelly, Aidan, Crafting the Art of Magic, Llewellyn Publications, 1991.
^ Hutton, Ronald, Triumph of the Moon, Oxford University Press, 1999.
^ Ruickbie, Leo (2004). Witchcraft Out of the Shadows. ISBN 978-0-7090-7567-7.
^ Murray, Margaret A., The Witch-Cult in Western Europe, Oxford University Press, 1921.
^ Hutton, R.,The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft, Oxford University Press, pp. 205–252, 1999.
^ Kelly, A.A., Crafting the Art of Magic, Book I: a History of Modern Witchcraft, 1939–1964, Minnesota: Llewellyn Publications, 1991.
^ Valiente, D., The Rebirth of Witchcraft, London: Robert Hale, pp. 35–62, 1989.
^ Foltz, Tanice G.; Berger, Helen A. (November 2000). "A Community of Witches: Contemporary Neo-Paganism and Witchcraft in the United States". Contemporary Sociology. 29 (6): 840. doi:10.2307/2654107. ISSN 0094-3061. JSTOR 2654107.
^ a b Tosenberger, Catherine (2010). "Neo-Paganism for teens". Jeunesse: Young People, Texts, Cultures. 2 (2): 172–82. doi:10.1353/jeu.2010.0037. S2CID 163061063.
^ a b Berger, Helen A.; Ezzy, Douglas (2009). "Mass Media and Religious Identity: A Case Study of Young Witches". Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion. 48 (3): 501–514. doi:10.1111/j.1468-5906.2009.01462.x. ISSN 0021-8294. JSTOR 40405642.
^ a b Jarvis, Christine (2008). "Becoming a woman through Wicca: Witches and wiccans in contemporary teen fiction" (PDF). Children's Literature in Education. 39 (1): 43–52. doi:10.1007/s10583-007-9058-0. S2CID 14030498.
^ Merskin, Debra (2007-05-23). "Joining Forces: Teen Girl Witches and Internet Chat Groups". Proceedings of the International Communication Association.
^ a b Doyle White 2011, pp. 205–206. sfn error: no target: CITEREFDoyle_White2011 (help)
^ Howard 2011. p. 15.
^ Schulke 2006.
^ Howard 2011. p. 17.
^ Rabinovitch, Shelley; Lewis, James (200). The Encyclopedia of Modern Witchcraft and Neo-Paganism.
^ "Stregheria.com FAQ". Stregheria.com.
^ "Satanism vs. Neo-Pagan Witchcraft". holysmoke.org.
^ Gilmore, Peter (2007-08-10). "Science and Satanism". Point of Inquiry Interview. Retrieved 9 December 2013.
^ Lewis, James R. (2002). The Encyclopedia of Cults, Sects, and New Religions. Prometheus Books. p. 553. ISBN 978-1573922227.
^ Black Magic, Satanism, Voodoo, by Dr. Leo L. Martello, 1972 (Interview with Sloane on pp. 31–34, Our Lord Sathanas)
^ "Anton Szandor LaVey". Church of Satan. Retrieved 2020-04-08.
^ "F.A.Q. Occultism / Crowley / Wicca / Voodoo". Church of Satan. Retrieved 2020-04-08.
^ "On the Role of Ritual in the Life of a Satanist". Church of Satan. Retrieved 2020-04-08.
^ Temple, The Satanic. "What is the difference between The Satanic Temple and the Church of Satan?". The Satanic Temple. Retrieved 2020-04-08.
^ Temple, The Satanic. "Learn". The Satanic Temple. Retrieved 2020-04-08.
^ B.A. Robinson (March 2006). "Religious Satanism, 16th century Satanism, Satanic Dabbling, etc". Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance. Retrieved March 24, 2013.
^ Royal Navy to allow devil worship CNN
^ Carter, Helen. The devil and the deep blue sea: Navy gives blessing to sailor Satanist. The Guardian
^ Navy approves first ever Satanist BBC News
^ Linda Greenhouse (March 22, 2005). "Inmates Who Follow Satanism and Wicca Find Unlikely Ally". New York Times.
^ "Before high court: law that allows for religious rights". Christian Science Monitor. 2005-03-21.
^ Jesper Aagaard Petersen (2009). "Introduction: Embracing Satan". Contemporary Religious Satanism: A Critical Anthology. Ashgate Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7546-5286-1.
^ Alisauskiene, Milda (2009). "The Peculiarities of Lithuanian Satanism".  In Jesper Aagaard Petersen (ed.). Contemporary Religious Satanism: A Critical Anthology. Ashgate Publishing. ISBN 978-0-7546-5286-1.
^ "Satanism stalks Poland". BBC News. 2000-06-05.
^ Catherine Beyer. "How Luciferians Differ From Satanists". About.com Religion &amp; Spirituality. Retrieved 16 September 2015.
^ Catherine Beyer. "Lucifer (Who Is He?) – Lucifer versus Satan". About.com Religion &amp; Spirituality. Retrieved 16 September 2015.
^ Philips 2012, pp. 26, 85–86. sfn error: no target: CITEREFPhilips2012 (help)
^ Howard 2010, p. 7 sfnm error: no target: CITEREFHoward2010 (help); Philips 2012, p. 69 sfnm error: no target: CITEREFPhilips2012 (help).
^ Philips 2012, pp. 69–70. sfn error: no target: CITEREFPhilips2012 (help)
^ International Standard Bible Encyclopedia article on Witchcraft, last accessed 31 March 2006. There is some discrepancy between translations; compare with that given in the Catholic Encyclopedia article on Witchcraft (accessed 31 March 2006), and the L. W. King translation Archived 2007-09-16 at the Wayback Machine (accessed 31 March 2006).
^ "CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: Witchcraft". Newadvent.org. 1912-10-01. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ Nahum 3:4; 1 Samuel 15:23; 2 Chronicles 33:6; 2 Kings 9:22; Deuteronomy 18:10; Exodus 22:18
^ Scot, Reginald (c. 1580) The Discoverie of Witchcraft Booke VI Ch. 1.
^ Dickie, Matthew (2003). Magic and Magicians in the Greco-Roman World. Routledge. pp. 33–35. ISBN 978-0-415-24982-9.
^ I Samuel 28.
^ Savage-Smith, Emilie (2004). Magic and Divination in Early Islam. Ashgate/Variorum. ISBN 9780860787150.
^ "MAGIC". doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_DUM_2460. Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ a b "Chapter 4: Other Beliefs and Practices". Pew Research Center's Religion &amp; Public Life Project. 2012-08-09. Retrieved 2018-08-05.
^ Leaman, Oliver (2011). The Qur'an: An Encyclopedia. Leaman, Oliver, 1950–, Credo Reference. Abingdon, Oxon [England]: Routledge. p. 381. ISBN 9781780343686. OCLC 764567609.
^ Tafsir Ibn Kathir for surah 21, verse 19
^ "Magic – Oxford Islamic Studies Online". www.oxfordislamicstudies.com. Retrieved 2018-08-05.
^ Ouzgane, Lahoucine (2006). Islamic masculinities. London, UK: Zed Books. p. 89. ISBN 9781848131514. OCLC 654873315.
^ Nye, Catrin (2012-11-19). "British Asians turn to exorcists". BBC News. Retrieved 2018-08-08.
^ fox, aine (2016-04-19). "'Possessed' dentist stabbed faith healer to death at black magic centre". mirror. Retrieved 2018-08-08.
^ Breitowitz, Irving (1992-04-01). The Plight of the "Agunah:" A Study in "Halacha," Contract, and the First Amendment. DigitalCommons@UM Carey Law. OCLC 989071793.
^ al-Jawziyya, Ibn Qayyim. Zad al-Ma'ad [Provisions of the Hereafter]. pp. 1/475.
^ Amira El-Zein Islam, Arabs, and Intelligent World of the Jinn Syracuse University Press 2009 ISBN 978-0-815-65070-6 page 77
^ Moiz Ansari Islam And the Paranormal: What Does Islam Says About the Supernatural in the Light of Qur'an, Sunnah And Hadith iUniverse 2006 ISBN 978-0-595-37885-2 page 173
^ al-Jawziyya, Ibn Qayyim. THE PROPHETIC MEDICINE. pp. 54, 55, 225.
^ "Dates in the Holy Qur'an &amp; the Sunnah of the Prophet". Arab News. 2011-08-02. Retrieved 2018-08-05.
^ Geister, Magier und Muslime. Dämonenwelt und Geisteraustreibung im Islam. Kornelius Hentschel, Diederichs 1997, Germany.
^ Magic and Divination in Early Islam (The Formation of the Classical Islamic World) by Emilie Savage-Smith (Ed.), Ashgate Publishing 2004.
^ "The Kolloh-Man". The Wesleyan Juvenile Offering: A Miscellany of Missionary Information for Young Persons. X: 6. January 1853. Retrieved 29 February 2016.
^ Okeja, Uchenna (2011). "An African Context of the Belief in Witchcraft and Magic," in Rational Magic. Fisher Imprints. ISBN 978-1-84888-061-0.
^ Janzen &amp; MacGaffey 1974, p. 54b (13.9.12).
^ Janzen &amp; MacGaffey 1974, p. 54b (13.9.14).
^ Janzen &amp; MacGaffey 1974, pp. 54b-55a (13.9.16).
^ Janzen &amp; MacGaffey 1974, p. 55b (13.10.8).
^ Geschiere, Peter; "The Modernity of Witchcraft: Politics and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa" (1997) University of Virginia Press. ISBN 0-8139-1703-4 (paperback). Translated by Geschiere, Peter &amp; Roitman, Janet from the originally published in French: "Sorcellerie et politique en Afrique – La viande des autres" (1995).
^ idem (Geschiere, 1997, p.13)
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2010-03-12. Retrieved 2010-03-26.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Esslemont, Tom (26 November 2015). "Witch burning rebels stoke Central African Republic violence". Reuters. Retrieved 2 August 2018.
^ Richard Dowden in Kinshasa. "Thousands of child 'witches' turned on to the streets to starve | World news". The Guardian. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ "Kolwezi: Accused of witchcraft by parents and churches, children in the Democratic Republic of Congo are being rescued by Christian activists". Christianity Today. September 2009.
^ Bavier, Joe (2008-04-23). "Penis theft panic hits city." Reuters. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ a b Nunn, Nathan; Sierra, Raul Sanchez de la (2017). "Why Being Wrong can be Right: Magical Warfare Technologies and the Persistence of False Beliefs" (PDF). American Economic Review. 107 (5): 582–87. doi:10.1257/aer.p20171091. S2CID 1039668.
^ "My Mum is Not A Witch". Archived from the original on 2011-01-08. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ a b c d Whitaker, Kati (September 2012). "Ghana witch camps: Widows' lives in exile". BBC News. BBC. Retrieved September 1, 2012.
^ 7 killed in Ghana over 'penis-snatching' episodes, CNN, January 18, 1997.
^ Okeja, Uchenna (2011). "An African Context of the Belief in Witchcraft and Magic," in Rational Magic. Oxford: Fisher Imprints. ISBN 978-1-84888-061-0.
^ Reuters Editorial (2008-05-21). "Mob burns to death 11 Kenyan "witches"". Reuters. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ Byrne, Carrie 2011. Hunting the vulnerable: Witchcraft and the law in Malawi; Consultancy Africa Intelligence (16 June):
^ Van der Meer, Erwin 2011. The Problem of Witchcraft in Malawi, Evangelical Missions Quarterly (47:1, January): 78–85.
^ Kamkwamba, William. The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind. Harper Collins. 2009. Page 14.
^ "Stepping Stones Nigeria 2007. Supporting Victims of Witchcraft Abuse and Street Children in Nigeria". humantrafficking.org. Archived from the original on 2012-10-17.
^ Houreld, Katharine (2009) Church burns 'witchcraft' children. Associated Press.
^ Gittins 1987, p. 199.
^ West, Harry G. "Ethnographic Sorcery" (p.24); 2007. The University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-89398-3 (pbk.), ISBN 0-226-89398-7 (pbk.)
^ Living in fear: Tanzania's albinos, BBC News.
^ "Wicasta 2011. Albino Child Kidnapped By Witch Doctors For Tribal Sacrifice (23 September)". malleusmaleficarum.org.
^ "Zulu Culture – Zulu Witchcraft, the Sangoma, the Inyanga". www.zulu-culture.co.za. Retrieved 2020-02-06.
^ Blom, Jan Dirk; T. Poulina, Igmar; L. van Gellecum, Trevor; Hoek, Hans (1 June 2015). "Traditional healing practices originating in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao: A review of the literature on psychiatry and Brua". Transcultural Psychiatry. 52 (6): 840–860. doi:10.1177/1363461515589709. PMID 26062555. S2CID 27804741 – via ResearchGate.
^ "Springfield's 375th: From Puritans to presidents". Masslive.com. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ Fraden, Judith Bloom, Dennis Brindell Fraden. The Salem Witch Trials. Marshall Cavendish. 2008. p. 15.
^ George Brown Tindall; David Emory Shi (2013).  Jon Durbin. Retrieved 10/3/2013 (ed.). America: A Narrative History (Brief Ninth Edition, Volume One ed.). W.W. Norton &amp; Company, Inc. p. 85. ISBN 978-0-393-91265-4.
^ Baker, Emerson W. (2016-07-07), "The Salem Witch Trials", Oxford Research Encyclopedia of American History, Oxford University Press, doi:10.1093/acrefore/9780199329175.013.324, ISBN 978-0-19-932917-5
^ "Salem Witch Museum". www.salemwitchmuseum.com. Retrieved 2018-03-23.
^ David W. Thompson, "Sister Witch: The Life of Moll Dyer" (2017 Solstice Publishing) ISBN 978-1973105756
^ "Old Stories". Topix.
^ Hogue, Albert Ross (1916). History of Fentress County, Tennessee.
^ Sakowski, Carolyn (2007). Touring the East Tennessee Backroads. p. 212. ISBN 9780895874764.
^ a b c Wall, Leon and William Morgan, Navajo-English Dictionary. Hippocrene Books, New York City, 1998 ISBN 0-7818-0247-4.
^ Keene, Dr. Adrienne, "Magic in North America Part 1: Ugh." at Native Appropriations, 8 March 2016. Accessed 9 April 2016: "What happens when Rowling pulls this in, is we as Native people are now opened up to a barrage of questions about these beliefs and traditions ... but these are not things that need or should be discussed by outsiders. At all. I'm sorry if that seems "unfair," but that's how our cultures survive."
^ Behar, Ruth. Sex and Sin, Witchcraft and the Devil in Late-Colonial Mexico. American Ethnologist, 14:1 (February 1987), p. 34.
^ Lavrin, Asunción. Sexuality &amp; Marriage in Colonial Latin America. Reprint ed. Lincoln, NB.:University of Nebraska Press, 1992, p. 192.
^ Lewis, Laura A. Hall of mirrors: power, witchcraft, and caste in colonial Mexico. Durham, N.C.:Duke University Press, 2003, p. 13.
^ (in Portuguese) João Ribeiro Júnior, O Que é Magia, p.48-49, Ed. Abril Cultural.
^ "Jaipur woman thrashed for witchcraft". The Times of India. 2008-10-08. Retrieved 2008-10-11.
^ Witchcraft is given a spell in India's schools to remove curse of deadly superstition. The Times. November 24, 2008
^ Fifty 'Witches' Beaten By Mob. Sky News. December 22, 2008
^ Indian villagers 'killed witch'. BBC News. March 27, 2008
^ "Violence against Women/Girls Assessing the Situation of Nepal in 2013" (PDF): 56. Retrieved 2018-04-03. Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Informal Sector Service Center – For Human Right &amp; Social Justice". www.insec.org.np.
^ "A Study on Violence due to Witchcraft Allegation and Sexual Violence" (PDF): 32. Retrieved 2018-04-03. Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ Blacker, Carmen. The Catalpa Bow : A Study of Shamanistic Practices in Japan. New York: Routledge Curzon, 1999. 51–59.
^ "The Grateful Foxes – Japanese foxtales". Academia.issendai.com. Retrieved 2013-06-29.
^ Blacker, Carmen Catalpa Bow p. 56.
^ Tan, Michael L. (2008). Revisiting Usog, Pasma, Kulam. University of the Philippines Press. ISBN 9789715425704.
^ Demetrio, F. R. (1988). Philippine Studies Vol. 36, No. 3: Shamans, Witches and Philippine Society, pp. 372-380. Ateneo de Manila University.
^ Miethe, Terance D.; Lu, Hong (2004). Punishment: a comparative historical perspective. p. 63. ISBN 978-0-521-60516-8.
^ "Pleas for condemned Saudi 'witch'", 14 February 2008 BBC NEWS
^ Usher, Sebastian (2010-04-01). "Death 'looms for Saudi sorcerer'". BBC News.
^ "Saudi Arabia's 'Anti-Witchcraft Unit' breaks another spell". The Jerusalem Post | JPost.com. Retrieved 2015-09-14.
^ "Saudi Authorities Behead Woman for 'Sorcery' – Middle East – News". Israel National News. Retrieved 2013-06-29.
^ "Saudi man executed for 'witchcraft and sorcery'", BBC News, June 19, 2012
^ "IS beheads two civilian women in Syria: monitor". Yahoo News. 30 June 2015.
^ Nova, "China's Tocharian Mummies", 38:40–39:10.
^ Monter, E. William (1969). European Witchcraft. New York. pp. vii–viii.
^ Kiekhefer, Richard (201). European Witch Trials: Their Foundations in Popular and Learned Culture, 1300–1500. Routledge. p. 102.
^ Brian P. Levack (The Witch Hunt in Early Modern Europe) multiplied the number of known European witch trials by the average rate of conviction and execution, to arrive at a figure of around 60,000 deaths. Anne Lewellyn Barstow (Witchcraze) adjusted Levack's estimate to account for lost records, estimating 100,000 deaths. Ronald Hutton (Triumph of the Moon) argues that Levack's estimate had already been adjusted for these, and revises the figure to approximately 40,000.
^ "Estimates of executions". Based on Ronald Hutton's essay Counting the Witch Hunt.
^ Drury, Nevill (1992) Dictionary of Mysticism and the Esoteric Traditions Revised Edition. Bridport, Dorset: Prism Press. "Witch".
^ Regino of Prüm (906), see Ginzburg (1990) part 2, ch. 1 (89ff.)
^ H.C. Erik Midelfort, Witch Hunting in Southwestern Germany 1562–1684, 1972,71
^ a b Thornton, John. "Cannibals, Witches, and Slave Traders in the Atlantic World." The William and Mary Quarterly 60, no. 2 (2003): 282.
^ Maxwell-Stuart, P. G. (2000) "The Emergence of the Christian Witch" in History Today, Nov, 2000.
^ Drymon, M.M. Disguised as the Devil: How Lyme Disease Created Witches and Changed History, 2008.
^ Mackay, C., Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds.
^ Keith Thomas, Religion and the Decline of Magic (1971).
^ Jonathan Barry, "Introduction: Keith Thomas and the problem of witchcraft" in Jonathan Barry et al. eds., Witchcraft in early modern Europe: Studies in Culture and Belief (1996) pp. 1–46
^ Alan Macfarlane, Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England: A Regional and Comparative Study (1970).
^ Garrett, Clarke (1977). "Women and Witches: Patterns of Analysis". Signs. 3 (2): 461–470. doi:10.1086/493477. JSTOR 3173296. PMID 21213644.
^ Kathleen Kamerick, "Tanglost of Wales: Magic and Adultery in the Court of Chancery circa 1500." Sixteenth Century Journal 44#1 (2013) pp25-45.
^ Sally Parkin, "Witchcraft, women's honour and customary law in early modern Wales." Social History 31.3 (2006): 295–318.
^ Thomas Lolis, "The City of Witches: James I, the Unholy Sabbath, and the Homosocial Refashioning of the Witches' Community." CLIO (2008) 37#3 pp 322–337.
^ McSmith, Andy (29 February 2008). "Toil and trouble: the last witch?". The Independent. London. Retrieved 1 June 2012.
^ "Witchcraft – Child protection – Child abuse – Child rights". Protectingchildren.org.uk. Archived from the original on 2017-03-02. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ Witchcraft child abuse cases investigated by Met rise by over 50% BBC
^ Rise in cases of ritual child abuse linked to witchcraft beliefs reported, say police The Guardian
^ a b c Evans, Ruth (2015-10-11). "'Witchcraft' abuse cases on the rise". BBC News. Retrieved 2016-09-15.
^ For a detailed description and analysis of Bernardino's anti-witchcraft sermons, see Chapter One (pp.52–108) of Franco Mormando's The Preacher's Demons: Bernardino of Siena and the Social Underworld of Early Renaissance Italy, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1999.
^ a b c Martin, Ruth (1989). Witchcraft and the Inquisition in Venice, 1550–1650. Oxford, UK. p. 235.
^ a b c d e f Black, Christopher F. (2001). Early Modern Italy: A Social History. London. p. 115.
^ a b c Kiekhefer, Richard (2001). European Witch Trials: Their Foundation in Popular and Learned Culture, 1300–1500. p. 57.
^ Cohen, Elizabeth S. and Thomas V. (1993). Words and Deeds in Renaissance Rome: Trials before the Papal Magistrates. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. pp. 189–195.
^ Schutte, Anne Jacobson (2008). Aspiring Saints: Pretense of Holiness, Inquisition, and Gender in the Republic of Venice, 1618–1750. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. p. 99.
^ Cohen, Elizabeth S. and Thomas V. (1993). Words and Deeds in Renaissance Rome: Trials before the Papal Magistrates. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. pp. 201–238.
^ Ferraro, Joanne Marie. Nefarious Crimes, Contested Justice: Illicit Sex, and Infanticide in the Republic of Venice, 1557-1789. p. 3.
^ a b "Diabolism in the New World". ABCCLIO. 2005. Retrieved February 10, 2013.
^ Cervantes, Fernando; Kenneth Mills (1996). "The Devil in the New World: The Impact of Diabolism in New Spain". The Hispanic American Historical Review. 76 (4): 789–790. doi:10.2307/2517981. JSTOR 2517981.
^ "10 Fascinating Mysteries of the Ancient State of Galicia". 2017-02-21.
^ "The Powerful Woman Known as Maria Solina – the Most Famous Witch of Galicia".
^ "Entre brujas y ferrerias". El país. Retrieved 2 November 2019.
^ Jasper Buse (1995). Cook Islands Maori Dictionary. Cook Islands Ministry of Education. p. 372. ISBN 9780728602304.
^ Jasper Buse (1995). Cook Islands Maori Dictionary. Cook Islands Ministry of Education. p. 471. ISBN 9780728602304.
^ Jasper Buse (1995). Cook Islands Maori Dictionary. Cook Islands Ministry of Education. p. 156. ISBN 9780728602304.
^ William Wyatt Gill (1892). "Wizards". The south Pacific and New Guinea, past and present; with notes on the Hervey group, an illustrative song and various myths. Sydney: Charles Potter, Government Printer. p. 21.
^ William Wyatt Gill (1892). "Wizards". The south Pacific and New Guinea, past and present; with notes on the Hervey group, an illustrative song and various myths. Sydney: Charles Potter, Government Printer. p. 22.
^ Beatrice Grimshaw (1908). "A Mystic Power". In the Strange South Seas. London: Hutchinson &amp; Co. pp. 71–72.
^ Woman suspected of witchcraft burned alive CNN.com. January 8, 2009.
^ "Papua New Guinea's 'Sorcery Refugees': Women Accused of Witchcraft Flee Homes to Escape Violence". Vice News. January 6, 2015.
^ Nausori Highlands deaths: Father of youngest victims blames witchcraft for death of family
^ See also Ryan, W.F. The Bathhouse at Midnight: An Historical Survey of Magic and Divination in Russia, Pennsylvania State University Press, 1999.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 524.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004,) page 252.
^ a b Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 847.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 623.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 797.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 705.
^ a b c Kivelson, Valerie A. (1 January 2003). "Male Witches and Gendered Categories in Seventeenth-Century Russia". Comparative Studies in Society and History. 45 (3): 606–631. doi:10.1017/S0010417503000276. JSTOR 3879463.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 313.
^ Janet and Stewart Farrar, A Witches Bible: The Complete Witches' Handbook (Washington, Phoenix Publishing, Inc.) 1984. Page 316.
^ Judika Illes, The Element Encyclopedia of 5,000 Spells: The Ultimate Reference Book for the Magical Arts (Element: London, 2004), page 586.
^ Raymond Buckland, The Witch Book: The Encyclopedia of Witchcraft, Wicca, and Neo-Paganism (Detroit: Visible Ink) 2002. Page 160.
^ Christine D. Worobec, 1995. "Witchcraft Beliefs and Practices in Prerevolutionary Russian and Ukrainian Villages." Russian Review 54, no. 2: 165. Historical Abstracts, EBSCOhost (accessed November 21, 2013).
^ Peterson, Mark (1998). "Damned Women: Sinners and Witches in Puritan New England". ProQuest. 67 (1): 192–194. doi:10.2307/3170836. JSTOR 3170836.
^ Russell Zguta, "Witchcraft Trials in Seventeenth-Century Russia," American Historical Review 82, no. 5 (December 1977), 1190.
^ Zguta, 1190.
^ Puigblanch, Antonio (1816-01-01). The Inquisition Unmasked: Being an Historical and Philosophical Account of that Tremendous Tribunal, Founded on Authentic Documents; and Exhibiting the Necessity of Its Suppression, as a Means of Reform and Regeneration, Written and Published at a Time when the National Congress of Spain was about to Deliberate on this Important Measure. Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy.
^ a b Zguta, 1189.
^ "Cold Water Ordeal". Infoplease.com. Retrieved 31 October 2017.
^ Zguta, 1187.
^ a b Zguta, 1191.
^ Zguta, 1193.
^ Zguta, 1193–94.
^ Zguta, 1195.
^ Zguta, 1196.
^ Simons, Patricia. "THE INCUBUS AND ITALIAN RENAISSANCE ART." Source: Notes in the History of Art 34.1 (2014): 1–8.
^ Lorenzi, Lorenzo. Witches. Exploring the iconography of the sorceress and enchantress. (2005).
^ Stumpel, Jeroen. "The Foul Fowler Found out: On a Key Motif in Dürer's 'Four Witches.'" Simiolus: Netherlands Quarterly for the History of Art, vol. 30, no. 3/4, 2003, pp. 143–160., https://www.jstor.org/stable/3780914.
^ a b Hoak, Dale. "THE EUROPEAN WITCHCRAZE REVISITED, PT 2, WITCH-HUNTING AND WOMEN IN THE ART OF THE RENAISSANCE." History Today 31.FEB (1981): 22–26.
Referenced works
Alan Macfarlane, Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England, Psychology Press, 1999 (orig. 1970)
University of Kansas Publications in Anthropology, No. 5 = John M Janzen and Wyatt MacGaffey: An Anthology of Kongo Religion: Primary Texts from Lower Zaïre. Lawrence, 1974.
Studia Instituti Anthropos, Vol. 41 = Anthony J. Gittins: Mende Religion. Steyler Verlag, Nettetal, 1987.
Thompson, David W. (2017). Sister Witch: The Life of Moll Dyer. Solstice Publishing. ISBN 978-1973105756.
Further reading
Ashforth, Adam (2000). Madumo, A Man Bewitched. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-02971-9.
Boyer, Paul and Stephen Nissenbaum, eds. The Salem Witchcraft Papers: Verbatim Transcripts of the Legal Documents of the Salem Witchcraft Outbreak of 1692, Volumes I and II. New York: De Capo Press, 1977.
Easley, Patricia Thompson (August 2000). A Gobber Tooth, A Hairy Lip, A Squint Eye: Concepts of the Witch and the Body in Early Modern Europe (M.A. Thesis). UNT Digital Library.
Favret-Saada, Jeanne (December 1980). Deadly Words: Witchcraft in the Bocage. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-29787-5.
Favret-Saada, Jeanne (2009). Désorceler. L'Olivier. ISBN 978-2-87929-639-5.
Gaskill, Malcolm. "Masculinity and Witchcraft in Seventeenth-century England." In Witchcraft and Masculinities in Early Modern Europe, edited by Alison Rowlands, 171–190. New York: Palgrave-Macmillan, 2009.
Geschiere, Peter (1997) [Translated from French Edition (1995 Karthala)]. The Modernity of Witchcraft: Politics and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa = Sorcellerie Et Politique En Afrique — la viande des autres. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0-8139-1703-0.
Ginzburg, Carlo; Translated by Raymond Rosenthal (June 2004) [Originally published in Italy as Storia Notturna (1989 Giulio Einaudi)]. Ecstasies: Deciphering the Witches' Sabbath. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-29693-7.
Goss, D. K. (2008). The Salem witch trials. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
Gouges, Linnea de From Witch Hunts to Scientific Confidence; The Influence of British and Continental Currents on the Consolidation of the Scandinavian States during the 17th Century Nisus Publications, 2014.
Hall, David, ed. Witch-hunting in Seventeenth-century New England: A Documentary History, 1638–1692. Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1991.
Henderson, Lizanne, Witch-Hunting and Witch Belief in the Gàidhealtachd, Witchcraft and Belief in Early Modern Scotland Eds. Julian Goodare, Lauren Martin and Joyce Miller. Basingstoke: Palgrave MacMillan, 2007
Hill, F. (2000). The Salem witch trials reader. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press.
Hutton, Ronald (1999) The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft, Oxford, OUP.
Hyatt, Harry Middleton. Hoodoo, conjuration, witchcraft, rootwork: beliefs accepted by many Negroes and white persons, these being orally recorded among Blacks and whites. s.n., 1970.
Kent, Elizabeth. "Masculinity and Male Witches in Old and New England." History Workshop 60 (2005): 69–92.
Lindquist, Galina (2006). Conjuring Hope: Magic and Healing In Contemporary Russia. Berghahn Books. ISBN 978-1-84545-057-1. Retrieved 20 May 2013.
Levack, Brian P. ed. The Oxford Handbook of Witchcraft in Early Modern Europe and Colonial America (2013) excerpt and text search
Moore, Henrietta L. and Todd Sanders 2001. Magical Interpretations, Material Realities: Modernity, Witchcraft and the Occult in Postcolonial Africa London: Routledge.
Notestein, Wallace. A history of witchcraft in England from 1558 to 1718. New York : Crowell, 1968
Pentikainen, Juha. "Marnina Takalo as an Individual." C. JSTOR. 26 February 2007.
Pentikainen, Juha. "The Supernatural Experience." F. Jstor. 26 February 2007.
Pócs, Éva (1999). Between the Living and the Dead: A perspective on Witches and Seers in the Early Modern Age. Budapest: Central European University Press. ISBN 978-963-9116-19-1.
Ruickbie, Leo (2004) Witchcraft out of the Shadows: A History, London, Robert Hale.
Stark, Ryan J. "Demonic Eloquence", in Rhetoric, Science, and Magic in Seventeenth-Century England (Washington, DC: The Catholic University of America Press, 2009), 115–45.
Williams, Howard (1865). The Superstitions of Witchcraft. Project Gutenberg. London: Longman, Green, Longman, Roberts, &amp; Green.
Worobec, Caroline. "Witchcraft Beliefs and Practices in Prerevolutionary Russia and Ukrainian Villages." Jstor. 27 February 2007.
External links
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Witchcraft
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Witchcraft.
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article  Witchcraft.
Scholia has a topic profile for Witchcraft.
Witchcraft on In Our Time at the BBC
Kabbalah On Witchcraft – A Jewish view (Audio) chabad.org
Jewish Encyclopedia: Witchcraft
Witchcraft and Devil Lore in the Channel Islands, 1886, by John Linwood Pitts, from Project Gutenberg
A Treatise of Witchcraft, 1616, by Alexander Roberts, from Project Gutenberg
University of Edinburgh's Scottish witchcraft database
'Witchcraft and Statecraft, A Materialist Analysis of the European Witch Persecutions'
vteWitchcraft and magicTypes
African witchcraft
Witch smeller
Asian witchcraft
Kulam
Australasian witchcraft
Makutu
European witchcraft
Akelarre
Benandanti
Chaos magic
Cunning folk
Seiðr
Völva
White witch
Witch-cult hypothesis
Latin American witchcraft
Warlock
Wicca
Witch doctor
Practices
Animism
Black magic
Coven
Demon
Divination
Entheogen
Evocation
Familiar
Flying ointment
Goetia
Gray magic
Jinn
Love magic
Magic circle
Necromancy
Occultism
Poppet
Potions
Shamanism
Black shamanism
Yellow shamanism
Sigils
Spiritism
Spiritualism
Witch ball
Witch's ladder
Witches' Sabbath
White magic
Objects
Amulet
Broom
besom
Cloak of invisibility
Love charm
Magic carpet
Magic ring
Magical weapons
Magic sword
Talisman
Fulu
Yansheng Coin
Wand
Folklore andmythology
Agamede
Aradia
Baba Yaga
Dayan
Drude
Elbow witch
Huld
Kalku
Hecate
Circe
Medea
Morgan le Fay
Muma Pădurii
Nine sorceresses
Obayifo
Sea witch
Sebile
Sorginak
Spearfinger
Three Witches
Witch of Endor
Majorhistoric treatises
Formicarius (1475)
Summis desiderantes affectibus (1484)
Malleus Maleficarum (1487)
The Discoverie of Witchcraft (1584)
Daemonologie (1597)
Compendium Maleficarum (1608)
A Guide to Grand-Jury Men (1627)
The Discovery of Witches (1647)
Treatise on the Apparitions of Spirits and on Vampires or Revenants (1751)
vteFantasy fiction
History
Literature
Magic
Sources
Subgenres
Action-adventure
Heroic
Lost world
Sword-and-sandal
Sword-and-sorcery
Wuxia‎
Comedy
Bangsian
Contemporary
Occult detective fiction‎
Paranormal romance
Urban fantasy
Dark fantasy
Fairytales
Fairy tale parodies‎
Fairytale fantasy‎
Fantastique
Fantasy of manners
Ghost stories‎
Gothic fiction
Grimdark
Hard fantasy
High fantasy
Historical fantasy
Juvenile
Low fantasy
Magical realism
Mythic
Mythopoeia‎
Mythpunk
"Retro"
Dieselpunk
Gaslamp fantasy
Steampunk
Romantic
Science fantasy‎
Dying Earth
Planetary romance
Shenmo
Tokusatsu‎
Kaiju
Weird fiction
New weird
Weird West‎
MediaFilm and television
Anime
Films
Television programs
Literature
Authors
Ballantine Adult Fantasy series
Comics
list
The Encyclopedia of Fantasy
Fantasy Masterworks
Internet Speculative Fiction Database
List of novels (A–H)
(I–R)
(S–Z)
Newcastle Forgotten Fantasy Library
Publishers
Magazines
Fantastic
Locus
The Magazine of Fantasy &amp; Science Fiction
Science Fantasy
Unknown
Weird Tales
Fandom
Art
Filk music
Harry Potter fandom
Inklings
Mythopoeic Society
Religion
Tolkien fandom
Works inspired by J. R. R. Tolkien
World Fantasy Convention
 Awards
Balrog
British Fantasy
Crawford
Dragon
Gandalf
Gemmell
Hugo
International Fantasy
Japan Fantasy
Locus
Mythopoeic
Nebula
Tähtifantasia
World Fantasy
TropesCreatures
Angels
Demons
Dragons
Elementals
Familiars
Faeries
Jinn
Kaiju
Lycanthropes
Sirens
Skin-walkers
Spirits
Undead
Unicorns
Vampires
Yōkai
Zombies
Characters
Barbarian
Caveman
Wild man
Damsel in distress
Dragonslayer
Dark Lord
Heroes
Fairy godmother
Magicians
Occult detective
list
Witches
Magic system
Hard and soft
Elements
Dark / Light
Love
Moon
Magic ring
Magical weapons
Magic sword
Wand
Schools
Animism
Demonology
Evocation
Incantation
Necromancy
Shapeshifting
Technomancy
Witchcraft
Fantasy races
Dwarves
Elves
Treants
Giants
Gnomes
Goblins
Gremlins
Halflings
Hobgoblins
Imps
Kobolds
Ogres
Oni
Orcs
Trolls
Places and events
Quests
Worlds
list
Lost city
Hollow Earth
Astral plane
Dreamworld
Castle
Enchanted forest
Thieves' guild
Related
Allegory
Dungeons &amp; Dragons
Epic poetry
Fable
Fairy tale
Fantastic
Horror fiction
Ghost stories
Human–animal hybrid
LGBT themes in speculative fiction
Magic realism
Mecha
Mythology
Mythic fiction
Science fantasy
Science fiction
Superhero fiction
Supernatural fiction
 Outline
 Category
vtePaganism (historical and modern)
Animism
Pantheism
Polytheism
Historical polytheismand ethnic religions (existing and extinct)
Altaic: Mongolian
Tungusic
Turkic
Ancient Near Eastern: Mesopotamian
Sumerian
Babylonian
Egyptian
Semitic
Canaanite
Arabian
Hurrian
Australian
Austroasiatic: Vietnamese
Sarnaism
Austronesian: Batak
Javanese
Dayak (Momolianism)
Malay
Micronesian
Philippine
Tagalog
Polynesian
Hawaiian
Māori
Sumbese
Sundanese
Caucasian: Circassian
Georgian
Vainakh
Chinese
Dravidian
Indo-European: Albanian
Armenian
Celtic
Germanic
Anglo-Saxon
Continental
Frankish
Gothic
Norse
Greek
Sacred mysteries
Eleusinian
Hero cult
Indian
Vedic
Hinduism
Puranas
Iranian
Persian
Scythian
Paleo-Balkan
Dacian
Illyrian
Thracian
Roman
Imperial cult
Slavic
Japanese: Ryukyuan
Korean
Miao
Native American: Mesoamerican
Aztec
Maya
Olmec
Papuan
Tai: Ahom
Mo
Satsana Phi
Tibeto-Burmese: Bon
Burmese
Benzhuism
Bimoism
Bathouism
Bongthingism
Donyi-Polo
Heraka
Kiratism
Qiang
Sanamahism
Sub-Saharan African: Bantu
San
Uralic: Hungarian
Mari
Sami
Udmurt
Myth and ritual
Animal worship
Blót
Ethos
Folklore
Magic and religion
Myth and ritual
Mythology
Orthopraxy
Religion and mythology
Ritual
Sacrifice
animal
human
Sorcery
Smudging
Veneration of the dead
Virtue
Witchcraft
Christianization
Christianization of saints and feasts
Christianity and Paganism
Constantinian shift
Hellenistic religion
Iconoclasm
Neoplatonism
Religio licita
Virtuous pagan
Modern paganmovements
Contemporary witchcraft: Cochranianism
Feri
Stregheria
Wicca
Ethnic: African
Ausar Auset
American
Mexicayotl
Native American Church
Armenian
Baltic
Dievturība
Romuva
Canarian
Caucasian
Abkhaz
Circassian
Celtic
Germanic
Hellenism
Hindu
Hungarian
Italo-Roman
Kemetic
Ossetian
Romanian
Semitic
Slavic
Turko-Mongolic
Altay
Chuvash
Uralic
Estonian
Finnish
Hungarian
Mordvin
European Congress of Ethnic Religions
Goddess movement
Reconstructionist
Druidry
Neoshamanism
Secular paganism
                                         260 ms       17.3%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::gsub                               180 ms       12.0%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::plain                               80 ms        5.3%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::find                                60 ms        4.0%
    gsub                                                              60 ms        4.0%
    mw.executeFunction                                    40 ms        2.7%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::getExpandedArgument                 40 ms        2.7%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::match                               40 ms        2.7%
    type                                                              40 ms        2.7%
    [others]                                                         380 ms       25.3%
Number of Wikibase entities loaded: 1/400
-->
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Witchcraft&amp;oldid=981997380"
		Categories: WitchcraftSociology of religionReligious controversiesLeft-Hand PathHidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodicalCS1: long volume valueHarv and Sfn no-target errorsWebarchive template wayback linksCS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyCS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles with Portuguese-language sources (pt)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataWikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalismAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2019Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2019All articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from August 2018Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2006All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2017Articles containing Navajo-language textArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from January 2014Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014Commons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadView sourceView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote
		Languages
		АдыгэбзэالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaChiShonaEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGàidhligGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoಕನ್ನಡKiswahiliKurdîLatviešuLingálaLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNāhuatlNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålNouormandOccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 5 October 2020, at 16:26 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
