	Tantō
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Japanese dagger
Type of Japanese sword Tantō Tantō with signature (Mei) of Shintōgo Kunimitsu. Complete aikuchi style koshirae (mountings) and bare blade.TypeJapanese swordSpecificationsBlade lengthavg. 15–30 cm (5.9–11.8 in)Blade typeDouble or single edged, straight bladed
A tantō (短刀, "short sword")[1][2] is one of the traditionally made Japanese swords[3] (nihonto)[4][5] that were worn by the samurai class of feudal Japan. The tantō dates to the Heian period, when it was mainly used as a weapon but evolved in design over the years to become more ornate. Tantō were used in traditional martial arts (tantojutsu).  The term has seen a resurgence in the West since the 1980s as a point style of modern tactical knives, designed for piercing or stabbing.
Contents
1 Description
2 History of tantō in Japan
2.1 Heian to Muromachi
2.2 Momoyama to the early Edo period
2.3 Late Edo period
2.4 Meiji to present
3 Types of tantō
3.1 Blade types
3.2 Mountings (koshirae)
3.3 Other tantō
4 Use in martial arts
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
Description[edit]
The tantō is a sword, but is used as a knife. The blade is single or double edged with a length between 15 and 30 cm (1 Japanese shaku). The tantō was designed primarily as a stabbing weapon, but the edge can be used for slashing as well.
Tantō are generally forged in hira-zukuri style (without ridgeline),[1][6] meaning that their sides have no ridge line and are nearly flat, unlike the shinogi-zukuri structure of a katana. Some tantō have particularly thick cross-sections for armor-piercing duty, and are called yoroi toshi.
Tantō were mostly carried by samurai, as commoners did not generally wear them. Women sometimes carried a small tantō called a kaiken[7] in their obi primarily for self-defense. Tantō were sometimes worn as the shōtō in place of a wakizashi in a daishō,[8][9] especially on the battlefield. Before the advent of the wakizashi/tantō combination, it was common for a samurai to carry a tachi and a tantō as opposed to a katana and a wakizashi.[8]
It has been noted that the tachi would be paired with a tantō and later the uchigatana would be paired with another shorter uchigatana. With the advent of the katana, the wakizashi eventually was chosen by samurai as the short sword over the tantō. Kanzan Satō in his book The Japanese sword notes that there did not seem to be any particular need for the wakizashi and suggests that the wakizashi may have become more popular than the tantō due to the wakizashi being more suited for indoor fighting. He mentions the custom of leaving the katana at the door of a castle or palace when entering while continuing to wear the wakizashi inside.[10]
History of tantō in Japan[edit]
The production of swords in Japan is divided into specific time periods:
Jokoto (ancient swords, until around 900 A.D.)
Koto (old swords from around 900–1596)
Shinto (new swords 1596–1780)
Shinshinto (new new swords 1781–1876)
Gendaito (modern swords 1876–1945)[11]
Shinsakuto (newly made swords 1953–present)[12]
Heian to Muromachi[edit]
  Tantō by Hyūga Masamune, 24.8cm, Unsigned Masamune, Formerly in the possession of Ishida Mitsunari, who gave it to his brother-in-law; the tantō was stolen during the Battle of Sekigahara by Mizuno Katsushige, governor of Hyūga Province, Kamakura period, Mitsui Memorial Museum, Tokyo.
The tantō was invented partway through the Heian period. With the beginning of the Kamakura period, tantō were forged to be more aesthetically pleasing, and hira and uchi-sori tantō becoming the most popular styles. Near the middle of the Kamakura period, more tantō artisans were seen, increasing the abundance of the weapon, and the kanmuri-otoshi style became prevalent in the cities of Kyoto and Yamato. Because of the style introduced by the tachi in the late Kamakura period, tantō began to be forged longer and wider. The introduction of the Hachiman faith became visible in the carvings in the hilts around this time. The hamon (line of temper) is similar to that of the tachi, except for the absence of choji-midare, which is nioi and utsuri. Gunomi-midare and suguha are found to have taken its place.
During the era of the Northern and Southern Courts, the tantō were forged to be up to forty centimeters as opposed to the normal one shaku (about thirty centimeters) length. The blades became thinner between the ura and the omote, and wider between the ha and mune. At this point in time, two styles of hamon were prevalent: the older style, which was subtle and artistic, and the newer, more popular style. With the beginning of the Muromachi period, constant fighting caused the mass production of blades, meaning that with higher demand, lower-quality blades were manufactured. Blades that were custom-forged still were of exceptional quality, but the average blade suffered greatly. As the end of the period neared, the average blade narrowed and the curvature shallowed.[13]
Momoyama to the early Edo period[edit]
  Antique Japanese tantō shown dis-assembled, British Museum.
Approximately two hundred and fifty years of peace accompanied the unification of Japan, in which there was little need for blades. In this period, both the katana and wakizashi were invented, taking the place of the tantō and tachi as the most-used pair of weapons, and the number of tantō forged was severely decreased. The only tantō produced during this period of peace were copies of others from earlier eras.[14]
Late Edo period[edit]
There were still a few tantō being forged during this period, and the ones that were forged reflected the work of the Kamakura, Nambokucho, or Muromachi eras. Suishinshi Masahide was a main contributor towards the forging of tantō during this age.[14] There are now only prehistoric tantō being used in combat.
Meiji to present[edit]
Many tantō were forged before World War II, due to the restoration of the Emperor to power. Members of the Imperial Court began wearing the set of tachi and tantō once more, and the number of tantō in existence increased dramatically. After World War II, a restriction on sword forging caused tantō manufacture to fall very low.[15]  American and European interest in Japanese martial arts since the war created a demand for the tantō outside Japan from the 1960s through the present time.[16]
Types of tantō[edit]
Blade types[edit]
  The general blade shape is approximately 25 cm long, 17 mm wide (near the tang), 8.0 mm thick (near the tang) and approximately straight. Actual historical examples would vary in length, width, thickness and curvature. (The hira and kiriha sides of the katakiriha blade have been swapped to allow the tip to point consistently to the left while still showing the chisel-like side.)
Hira: A very common tantō form with no shinogi, the edge bevels reaching all the way from the edge (ha) to the back (mune) with no separate flats in between, creating an almost triangular cross-section (the back is ridged, as on most other blade forms, so the cross-section is actually an extremely asymmetrical diamond shape; on shinogi zukuri blades it is hexagonal). It is extremely common due to the simplicity of its design.
Shinogi: This is the most common type of blade geometry for long swords, but tantō made in this form are very rare, usually created from cut-down blades when a longer sword has been broken. Shinogi means the central ridge that runs along the length of the blade between the edge bevels and the body of the blade.
Osoraku: Osoraku zukuri features an extremely long o-kissaki type point, over half the blade's length.
Shobu: A common blade type that is very similar to the shinogi zukuri, except that it lacks a yokote, the distinct angle between the long cutting edge and the point section, and instead the edge curves smoothly and uninterrupted into the point.
Unokubi: An uncommon tantō style akin to the kanmuri-otoshi, with a back that grows abruptly thinner around the middle of the blade, but in the unokubi zukuri it regains its thickness just before the point. There is normally a short, wide groove extending to the midway point on the blade.
Kanmuri-otoshi: These tantō were shaped in hira or shobu style but from about half way to the tip the back edge was sharpened though this second edge was not particularly sharp. They had a groove running halfway up the blade and were similar to the unokubi style tantō.
Kissaki-moroha: A rare blade type with a double-edged point. Unlike the later kanmuri-otoshi the tip had a distinct shape unlike any other tanto: the back edge would curve slightly downwards so that the point was lower than the back of the blade whereas other tanto had the point in line with the back of the blade. Often they had a wide groove in the base half. The most well known historical blade of this type is the tachi Kogarasu Maru, "Little Crow", one of the National Treasures of Japan.
Moroha: A rare, double-edged tantō type that has a diamond-shaped cross-section. The blade tapers to a point and contains a shinogi that runs to the point.
Yoroi toshi or yoroi doshi: tantō that have particularly thick cross-sections for armor-piercing duty.
Katakiriha: An asymmetric tantō form, sharpened only on one side to create a chisel-shaped cross-section.
Kubikiri: A very rare type; the sharpened blade is on the inside curve rather than the outside. It has no sharpened point, making it difficult to use in battle and enshrouding the weapon in mystery. Kubikiri can be roughly translated to "head cutter". According to one myth, they were carried by attendants of samurai for cutting off the heads of fallen enemies. There are other speculations existing about the kubikiri's possible uses. Perhaps they were used by doctors or carried by high-ranking officials as a badge is worn today. They could also have been used for cutting charcoal or incense, or used as an artistic tool for pruning bonsai trees.[17]
Hochogata: A tantō form that is commonly described as a short, wide, hira. The hochogata was one of the blade type that the legendary swordsmith Masamune favored.
Mountings (koshirae)[edit]
Aikuchi: The aikuchi is a tantō koshirae where the fuchi is flush with the mouth of the sheath. There is no handguard. Aikuchi normally have plain wooden hilts, and many forms of aikuchi have kashira that are made from animal horns.
Hamidashi: The hamidashi is a tantō koshirae that features a small handguard.
Other tantō[edit]
Kaiken tantō: The kuaiken (also kwaiken or futokoro-gatana) is a generally short tantō that is commonly carried in aikuchi or shirasaya mounts. It was useful for self-defense indoors where the long katana and intermediate wakizashi were inconvenient. Women carried them in the obi for self-defense and rarely for jigai (ritual suicide). A woman received a kaiken as part of her wedding gifts.
Fan Tantō: The fan tantō is a common tantō with a blade entirely concealed within a fan-shaped scabbard. The blade was usually low quality, as this tantō was not designed to be a display piece, but rather a concealed weapon for self-defense.
Yari Tantō: Japanese spearheads were often altered so that it became possible to mount them as tantō. Unlike most blades, yari tantō had triangular cross-sections.
Ken tanto: This is also not truly a tantō, though it is often used and thought of as one. Ken were straight, double-edged blades often used for Buddhist rituals, and could be made from spearheads that were broken or cut shorter. They were often given as offerings from sword smiths when they visited a temple. The hilt of the ken tantō may be found made with a vajra (double thunderbolt related to Buddhism).[citation needed]
Modern tantō: Modern tactical knives have been made by knife makers Bob Lum, Phill Hartsfield, Ernest Emerson, Allen Elishewitz, Bob Terzuola, Strider Knives, Harold J. "Kit" Carson, Benchmade, Camillus Cutlery Company, Spyderco, Severtech, Ka-Bar, SOG Knives, Columbia River Knife &amp; Tool, and Cold Steel.[18]  These "American Tantō" designs which are often folding knives, feature a thick spine on the blade that goes from the tang to the tip for increased tip strength.[19] The handle shape may be altered slightly to provide better ergonomics.[16]
Use in martial arts[edit]
Tantō with blunt wooden or blunt plastic blades are used to practice martial arts. Versions with a blunt metal blade are used in more advanced training and in demonstrations. Martial arts that employ the tantō include:
Aikido
Aikijutsu
Jujutsu
Koryu Bujutsu
Ninjutsu
Shorinji Kempo
Modern Arnis (taking place of dagger)
Edo period yari (spear) tantō in koshirae. A spearhead converted to use as a tantō.
Ken tantō, a double-edged straight sword in wooden mounts "shirasaya".
Edo period yari tantō. A yari (spear) converted to use as a tantō.
Kwaiken tantō.
A tantō disguised as a fan
Edo period tantō with an aikuchi mounting.
See also[edit]
Japanese sword
Kaiken (dagger)
List of daggers
Yoroidōshi
References[edit]
^ a b The samurai sword: a handbook, John M. Yumoto, Tuttle Publishing, 1989 P.47
^ Tanto
^ Handbook to life in medieval and early modern Japan, William E. Deal, Oxford University Press US, 2007 P.161
^ The Development of Controversies: From the Early Modern Period to Online Discussion Forums, Volume 91 of Linguistic Insights. Studies in Language and Communication, Author Manouchehr Moshtagh Khorasani, Publisher Peter Lang, 2008, .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 3-03911-711-4, 978-3-03911-711-6 p.150
^ The Complete Idiot's Guide to World Mythology, Complete Idiot's Guides, Authors Evans Lansing Smith, Nathan Robert Brown, Publisher Penguin, 2008, ISBN 1-59257-764-4, 978-1-59257-764-4 P.144
^ Styles in the Shape of Blades
^ Kaiken
^ a b The Japanese sword, Kanzan Satō, Kodansha International, 1983 P.68
^ Shotokan's Secret: The Hidden Truth Behind Karate's Fighting Origins, Bruce D. Clayton, Black Belt Communications, 2004 P106
^ The Japanese sword, Kanzan Satō, Kodansha International, 1983 P.68
^ Clive Sinclaire (1 November 2004). Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior. Lyons Press. pp. 40–58. ISBN 978-1-59228-720-8.
^ トム岸田 (24 September 2004). 靖国刀. Kodansha International. p. 42. ISBN 978-4-7700-2754-2.
^ Satō, Kanzan (1983).  Joe Earle (ed.). The Japanese sword; Volume 12 of Japanese arts library. Kodansha International. pp. 62–64. ISBN 978-0-87011-562-2.
^ a b Satō (1983) p. 68
^ Sinclaire, Clive (2004). Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior. Globe Pequot. p. 59. ISBN 978-1-59228-720-8.
^ a b Steele, David (1981). "Japanese Daggers". Black Belt. Black Belt, Inc. 19 (2): 55–60.
^ Unusual tantō
^ Pacella, Gerard (2002). 100 Legendary Knives. Krause Publications. pp. 124–126. ISBN 0-87349-417-2. Cite has empty unknown parameter: |coauthors= (help)
^ "American Tanto - Blade Geometry Knife FAQ". faq.customtacticals.com. Retrieved 27 May 2014.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Tanto and Nihonto.
Nihonto forum
Japanese Sword Index and Visual Glossary
vteJapanese weapons, armour and equipmentSwords
Chokutō
Dōtanuki
Guntō
Katana
Kodachi
Ninjatō
Ōdachi
Shikomizue
Tachi
Tsurugi
Uchigatana
Wakizashi
Zanbatō
Construction
Glossary
Horimono
Sword mountings
Sword polishing
Swordsmithing
Tameshigiri
Knives and daggers
Kabutowari
Kaiken
Kunai
Tantō
Yoroi-dōshi
Polearms and spears
Bisento
Hoko yari
Kama-yari
Nagamaki
Naginata
Sasumata
Sodegarami
Torimono sandōgu
Tsukubō
Yari
Practice weapons
Bokken
Iaitō
Shinai
Shinken
Suburitō
Tanren bō
Armour
Auxiliary armours
Bōgu
Dō
Dō-maru
Haramaki
Kabuto
Karuta
Kikko
Kusari
Men-yoroi
Ō-yoroi
Sangu
Tatami
Types
Brigandine
Lame
Lamellar
Laminar
Mail
Plate
Mail and plate armour
Scale
Clothing
Fundoshi
Hakama
Kyahan
Shitagi
Tabi
Uwa-obi
Waraji
Samurai accoutrements
Abumi
Daishō
Horo
Kaginawa
Kate-bukuro
Kubi bukuro
Kura
Uchi-bukuro
Yebira
Chain and rope weapons
Chigiriki
Kusarigama
Kusari-fundo
Kyoketsu-shoge
Jōhyō
Clubs and truncheons
Hachiwari
Jitte
Kanabō
Tekkan
Tessen
Staff weapons
Bō
Hanbō
Jō
Tanbō
Yubi-bo
Projectile and throwing weapons
Artillery
Fukiya
Makibishi
Oyumi
Shuriken
Ya
Yumi
Firearms and guns
Bajō-zutsu
Bo-hiya
Tanegashima
Improvised and other weapons
Kama
Kiseru
Metsubushi
Ono
Ōtsuchi
Shobo
Suntetsu
Signal devices
Gunbai
Hata-jirushi
Horagai
Kabura-ya
Nobori
Saihai
Sashimono
Uma-jirushi
Users
Ashigaru
Edo period police
Kunoichi
Ninja
Onna-bugeisha
Rōnin
Samurai
Sōhei
Yamabushi
Japanese armour
Weapons of Japan
Japanese swords
National Treasure swords
Military equipment of Japan
vteSword types and classifications by region and historical era
Swordsmanship
Thrusting swords (Edgeless)
Curved swords (Single-edge)
Straight swords (Double-edge)
EuropePrehistory
Bronze Age sword
Khopesh
Ancient period
Iron Age sword
Harpe
Gladius
Xiphos
Kopis/Falcata
Makhaira
Spatha
Sica
Rhomphaia
Falx
Post-classical period
Migration Period sword
Viking sword
Arming sword
Longsword
Claymore
Falchion
Shashka
Early modern period
Zweihänder
Spada da lato
Katzbalger
Cinquedea
Estoc
Side-sword
Espada ropera
Swiss degen
Late modern period
Rapier
Sabre
Cutlass
Basket-hilted sword
Small sword
Hunting sword
Pistol sword
Spadroon
Sword bayonet
ChinaAncient
Jian
 Dao
Medieval
Dadao
Hook sword
Zhanmadao
Ming – Qing
Liuyedao
Wodao
Changdao
Yanmaodao
Modern
Miaodao
KoreaBronze Age – Gojoseon
Liaoning bronze dagger culture
Iron Age – Three Kingdom Era
Hwandudaedo
Seven-Branched Sword
Goryeo and Joseon era
Bonguk geom
Wungeom
Four Tiger Sword
JapanYayoi – Nara periods
Chokutō
Tsurugi
Heian – Kamakura periods
Tachi
Ōdachi
Tantō
Muromachi – Edo periods
Wakizashi
Uchigatana
Katana
Meiji period and beyond
Guntō
Iaitō
Ninjatō
Shikomizue
South AsiaAncient
Khanda
Urumi
Aruval
Medieval and modern
Firangi
Kastane
Talwar
Pulwar
Kayamkulam vaal
Pata
Western andCentral AsiaArab sword
Scimitar type
Turko-Mongol Sabre
Kilij
Shamshir
Saif
Yatagan
Mameluke sword
IndonesiaEarly period
Mandau
Niabor
Parang
Balato
Gari
Surik
Late period
Keris bahari
Klewang
Sundang
Langgai Tinggang
Parang Nabur
Sikin Panjang
PhilippinesClassical
Balasiong
Bangkung
Banyal
Barong
Batangas
Bicuco
Binagong (Binangon)
Bolo
Dahong palay
Garab
Gayang
Ginunting
Gulok
Kampilan
Kalis
Karambit
Lahot
Laring
Panabas
Parang
Pirah
Pinuti
Sanduko
Sansibar
Sundang
Susuwat
Talibon
Utak
Wasay
Spanish colonization
Balisword
Espada y daga
Hagibis
Tenegre
MainlandSoutheast AsiaClassic stage
Dha
Post-Classic stage
Krabi–krabong
MesoamericaPre-Columbian era
Macuahuitl
Macana
AfricaAncient Egypt
Khopesh
Acinaces
Mainland
Ida
Kaskara
Nimcha
Flyssa
Shotel
Billao
Takoba
vteKnives and daggers
List of daggers
List of blade materials
Kitchen and table knives
Boning
Bread knife
Butcher knife
Butter knife
Case knife
Cheese knife
Chef's knife
Cleaver
Electric knife
Fillet knife
Grapefruit knife
Lame
Mezzaluna
Parmesan knife
Pizza cutter
Splayd
Steak knife
Tomato knife
Japanese kitchen knives
Deba bōchō
Maguro bōchō
Nakiri bōchō
Santoku
Sashimi bōchō
Udon kiri
Unagisaki hōchō
Usuba bōchō
Yanagi ba
Other knives
Aircrew Survival Egress Knife
Athame
Balisong/Butterfly
Ballistic
Ballpoint pen knife
Bayonet
Boline
Bolo
Boot knife
Bowie
Cane knife
Ceramic knife
Clip point
Combat knife
Commander
Corvo
CQC-6
Deba bōchō
Diving knife
Drop point
Fairbairn–Sykes fighting knife
Gerber Mark II
Ginsu
Golok
Gravity knife
Guna
Hacking knife
Higonokami
Hunting knife
Jacob's ladder
Karambit
Kard
Kīla
Kirpan
Kitchen knife
Kukri
Laguiole knife
Machete
Mandau
Misericorde
Mora knife
Multi-tool
Navaja
Neck knife
Nontron knife
Opinel knife
Palette knife
Pantographic knife
Parang
Penknife
Penny knife
Pirah
Pocketknife
Putty knife
Puukko
Rampuri
Resolza
Sabatier
Sami knife
SARK
Scalpel
Seax
Sgian dubh
Sharpfinger
Shiv
Sliding knife
Smatchet
SOG Knife
Straight razor
Strider SMF
Survival knife
Swiss Army knife
Switchblade
Taping knife
Throwing knife
Trench knife
Tumi
Ulu
Utility knife
Warrior knife
X-Acto
Yatagan
Daggers
Anelace
Applegate–Fairbairn fighting knife
Arkansas toothpick
BC-41
Bagh nakh
Balarao
Baselard
Bichuwa
Bollock dagger
Cinquedea
Dirk
Ear dagger
Emeici
Facón
French Nail
Gunong
Hunting dagger
Janbiya
Jile
Kabutowari
Kaiken
Kalis
Katar
Khanjali
Khanjar
Kris
Kunai
Mark I trench knife
Parrying dagger
Poignard
Push dagger
Rondel dagger
Seme
Shobo
Sica
Stiletto
Marine Raider
V-42
Tantō
Yarará Parachute Knife
Yoroi-dōshi
Manufacturers
Aitor Knife Company
Al Mar Knives
American Tomahawk Company
Aritsugu
Benchmade
Böker
Buck Knives
Camillus Cutlery Company
Cattaraugus Cutlery Company
Chris Reeve Knives
CHROMA Cnife
Clauss Cutlery Company
Cold Steel
Columbia River Knife &amp; Tool
Cuisinart
Cutco
Dalian Hanwei Metal
Dexter-Russell
DOVO Solingen
Due Ancore
Ek Commando Knife Co.
EKA
Emerson Knives
F. Dick
Fällkniven
FAMAE
Fiskars
Gerber Legendary Blades
Füritechnics
Glock Ges.m.b.H.
Imperial Schrade
Ka-Bar
Kershaw Knives
KitchenAid
Korin Japanese Trading Company
Kyocera
Leatherman
Mad Dog Knives
Marble Arms
Medford Knife and Tool
Microtech Knives
Morseth
Muela
Murphy Knives
Olfa
Ontario Knife Company
Opinel
Randall Made Knives
Rösle
Sabatier
Shun Cutlery
Slice, Inc.
SOG Specialty Knives
Spyderco
STI Knives
Strider Knives
Thiers Issard
TOPS Knives
Tramontina
Victorinox
W. R. Case &amp; Sons Cutlery Co.
Carl Walther GmbH
Wenger
Western Knife Company
Wilkinson Sword
Wüsthof
Yoshida Metal Industry
Global
Zero Tolerance Knives
Zwilling J. A. Henckels
Knifemakers
Rex Applegate
James Black
Blackie Collins
John Nelson Cooper
Ernest Emerson
Jerry Fisk
Bill Harsey Jr.
Phill Hartsfield
Gil Hibben
Jimmy Lile
Bob Loveless
William F. Moran
Ken Onion
Ralph Osterhout
Bo Randall
Chris Reeve
A. G. Russell
Jody Samson
William Scagel
Mike Snody
Robert Terzuola
Michael Walker
Buster Warenski
Daniel Winkler
Associations
American Bladesmith Society
Cutlery and Allied Trades Research Association
Knifemakers' Guild
 Book:Knives and daggers
 Category:Knives / Daggers
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tantō&amp;oldid=980032697"
		Categories: Japanese sword typesMilitary knivesJapanese knivesSamurai swordsBlade weaponsSamurai weapons and equipmentJapanese swordsHidden categories: CS1 errors: empty unknown parametersArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from June 2017Short description is different from WikidataArticles containing Japanese-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2010
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		AzərbaycancaBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEuskaraFrançais한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoҚазақшаLietuviųMagyarNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 24 September 2020, at 06:31 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
