	Portal:China
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikipedia's portal for exploring content related to China
Portal maintenance status: (No date set)
This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed.
Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here.
.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left{float:left;width:50%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right{float:right;width:49%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-wide{float:left;width:60%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-narrow{float:right;width:39%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-extra-wide{float:left;width:70%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-extra-narrow{float:right;width:29%}@media only screen and (max-width:800px){.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-wide,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-narrow,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-extra-wide,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-extra-narrow{float:inherit;width:inherit}}
Portal topics
Activities
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology
Random portal
edit 
.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutboxplain{float:right;border:1px solid #aaa;background:#fff;margin:0 0 0 1em;padding:0.3em 0.6em 0.2em 0.6em;text-align:center;font-size:85%;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutlist{display:inline-block;border-bottom:1px solid #aaa;margin-bottom:0.2em;font-weight:normal}.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutanchordiv{position:relative;top:-3em}.mw-parser-output li .module-shortcutanchordiv{float:right}ShortcutsP:ZHP:CHNP:CHINA
Flag of China
China, officially the People's Republic of China (PRC), is a country in East Asia. It is the world's most populous country, with a population of around 1.4 billion in 2019. Covering approximately 9.6 million square kilometers (3.7 million mi2), it is the world's third or fourth largest country by area. As a one-party state led by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), it exercises jurisdiction over 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, four direct-controlled municipalities (Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, and Chongqing), and the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau.
China emerged as one of the world's first civilizations, in the fertile basin of the Yellow River in the North China Plain. For millennia, China's political system was based on absolute hereditary monarchies, or dynasties, beginning with the semi-mythical Xia dynasty in 21st century BCE. Since then, China has expanded, fractured, and re-unified numerous times. In the 3rd century BCE, the Qin reunited core China and established the first Chinese empire. The succeeding Han dynasty, which ruled from 206 BCE until 220 CE, saw some of the most advanced technology at that time, including papermaking and the compass, along with agricultural and medical improvements. The invention of gunpowder and movable type in the Tang dynasty (618–907) and Northern Song (960–1127) completed the Four Great Inventions. Tang culture spread widely in Asia, as the new Silk Route brought traders to as far as Mesopotamia and the Horn of Africa. The Qing Empire, China's final dynasty, suffered heavy losses to foreign colonialism. The Chinese monarchy collapsed in 1912 with the Xinhai Revolution, when the Republic of China (ROC) replaced the Qing dynasty. China was invaded by Imperial Japan during World War II. The Chinese Civil War resulted in a division of territory in 1949, when the CCP led by Mao Zedong established the People's Republic of China on mainland China while the Kuomintang-led ROC government retreated to the island of Taiwan.
China is a unitary one-party socialist republic and is one of the few existing nominally socialist states. Political dissidents and human rights groups have denounced and criticized the Chinese government for widespread human rights abuses, including political repression, suppression of religious and ethnic minorities, censorship, mass surveillance, and their response to protests, notably in 1989.
China is the largest economy in the world by PPP since 2014, the world's second-largest economy by nominal GDP since 2010, and the largest economy in Eurasia. Since the introduction of economic reforms in 1978, China's economy has been the world's fastest-growing major economy, with annual growth rates consistently above 10%. According to the World Bank, China's GDP grew from $150 billion in 1978 to $12.24 trillion by 2017. China recorded the fastest rise in GDP per capita in the world from 1960 to 2018. China is the world's largest exporter and second-largest importer of goods. China holds 17.7% of the world's total wealth, the second largest share held by any country. China has the world's largest banking sector, with assets of $40 trillion and the world's top 4 largest banks all being in China. China has the highest number of rich people in the world's top 10% of wealth since 2019 and has one of the most billionaires of any country in the world. China is a recognized nuclear weapons state and has the world's largest standing army, the People's Liberation Army, and the second-largest defense budget. The PRC is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council since replacing the ROC in 1971. One of the world's foremost infrastructural giants, China has the world's largest bullet train network, the most supertall skyscrapers in the world, and initiated the largest transcontinental infrastructure investment project in modern history. China has been characterized as an emerging superpower, mainly because of its large economy, fast infrastructural development, and powerful military. Read more...
More about China...
Refresh with new selections below (purge) 
edit Selected article - show another
The Ming dynasty was the ruling dynasty of China from 1368 to 1644. The Ming was the last dynasty in China ruled by ethnic Han Chinese. Ming rule saw the construction of a vast navy and a standing army of one million troops. There were enormous construction projects, including the restoration of the Grand Canal and the Great Wall (pictured) and the establishment of the Forbidden City in Beijing. Emperor Hongwu's rebuilding of China's agricultural base and strengthening of communication routes through the militarized courier system had the unintended effect of creating a vast agricultural surplus that could be sold at burgeoning markets located along courier routes. By the 16th century, China became involved in a new global trade of goods, plants, animals, and food crops known as the Columbian Exchange. Trade with European powers and the Japanese brought in massive amounts of silver, which then replaced copper and paper banknotes as the common medium of exchange in China. During the last decades of the Ming the flow of silver into China was greatly diminished, thereby undermining the entire Ming economy. The ensuing breakdown of authority and people's livelihoods allowed rebel leaders such as Li Zicheng to challenge Ming authority.
More selected articles...
More...
edit Did you know - show different entries
...that according to the Zizhi Tongjian, Tang dynasty warlord Wu Yuanji painted an archery range with the blood of a family he had executed?
...that the magnitude 6.8 1981 Dawu earthquake in China killed or injured more than 450 people?
...that the world's tallest concrete-faced rockfill dam is Shuibuya Dam (pictured) on the Qingjiang River in China?
More Did you know...
[nil edit] Selected cuisine - show another 
Zhejiang cuisine, alternatively known as Zhe cuisine, is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine. It derives from the traditional ways of cooking in Zhejiang Province, which is located south of Shanghai and centred around Hangzhou, a historical Chinese capital. In general, Zhejiang cuisine is not greasy but has a fresh and soft flavour with a mellow fragrance. Read more...
edit Related WikiProjects
You are invited to participate in WikiProject China, a WikiProject dedicated to developing and improving articles about China.
Parent projects
WikiProject Asia • WikiProject East Asia • WikiProject Countries
Main projects
WikiProject China
Sub-projects and task forces
Cartography • History • Military history • Three Kingdoms • Politics • Cinema • Entertainment • Go (board game) • Cities • Provinces • Hong Kong • Macau • Taiwan • Tibet • Transportation • Chinese surnames • CJKV
Related Projects
Japan • Korea • Martial arts • Buddhism • Christianity • Taoism • Islam
What are WikiProjects?
edit Selected picture - show another
Credit: Jialiang Gao
Terraced rice fields in Yunnan Province.
More selected pictures...
More...
edit Selected biography - show another
Shi Jianqiao (born 1905 or 1906 – August 27, 1979) was the daughter of the Chinese military officer Shi Congbin, whose killing she avenged by assassinating the former warlord Sun Chuanfang. The revenge killing and the legal proceedings that followed were highly publicized at the time and incited public debates over the concepts of filial piety and the rule of law. Shi Jianqiao's given name was Shi Gulan, (simplified Chinese: 施谷兰; traditional Chinese: 施谷蘭; pinyin: Shī Gǔlán; Wade–Giles: Shih Ku-lan; lit.: 'Valley Orchid'). She adopted the name Shi Jianqiao around the time she was planning to assassinate Sun Chuanfang to avenge her father's killing. The characters of her adopted name mean "sword" and "to raise" alluding to her planned role as an avenging assassin.
More selected biographies...
More...
edit Anniversaries for October 11
Portal:China/Anniversaries/October/October 11
 More October anniversaries / All Anniversaries... 
edit Related portals
Asia
Hong Kong
Republic of China
edit Topics
History of China - Timeline of Chinese history - Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors - Xia - Shang - Zhou (Spring and Autumn period - Warring States period) - Qin -  Han - Xin - Three Kingdoms (Cao Wei - Shu Han - Eastern Wu) - Jin - Sixteen Kingdoms - Northern and Southern dynasties - Sui -  Tang - Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period - Liao -  Song - Western Xia - Jin - Yuan -  Ming - Qing - History of the Republic of China - History of the People's Republic of China - Taiwan after World War II
History by topic: Economic history - Military history - Naval history - History of geography in China - History of science and technology in China - History of China's administrative divisions
Geography of China - Environment - Flora and fauna - Provinces - Counties of China -- Counties of Taiwan
Chinese cities - Beijing - Shanghai - Guangzhou - Shenzhen - Hong Kong - Macau -Taipei - Tianjin - Chengdu - Chongqing - Wuhan - Nanjing - Hangzhou - Zhengzhou - Xi'an - Shenyang
Chinese culture - Architecture - Art - Calligraphy - Cinema - Clothing - Cuisine - Law - Literature - Martial arts - Medicine - Music - Mythology - Philosophy - Religion - Social structure
Cantonese culture
Chinese language - Chinese grammar - Classical Chinese - Written Chinese (Chinese characters - Traditional Chinese characters - Simplified Chinese characters) - Varieties of Chinese (Mandarin Chinese - Wu Chinese - Cantonese - Min Chinese - Xiang Chinese - Hakka Chinese - Gan Chinese) - Chinese as a foreign language
Ethnic groups in China - Bai - Blang - Bonans - Bouyei - Dai - Daur - De'ang - Derung - Dong - Dongxiangs - Evenks - Gaoshan - Gelao - Han - Hani - Hezhen - Hui - Jing - Jingpo - Jino - Kazakh - Kirgiz - Korean - Lahu - Lhoba - Li - Lisu - Manchu - Maonan - Miao - Monpa - Mongol - Mulao - Nakhi - Nu - Oroqen - Pumi - Qiang - Russian - Salar - She - Sibe - Shui - Tajik - Tatar - Tibetan - Tu - Tujia - Uyghur - Uzbek - Wa - Yao - Yi - Yugur - Zhuang - Ethnic minorities - Unrecognized ethnic groups
Chinese cuisine - Cantonese cuisine - Sichuan cuisine - Anhui cuisine - Shandong cuisine - Fujian cuisine - Jiangsu cuisine - Hunan cuisine - Zhejiang cuisine - Xinjiang cuisine - Mongolian cuisine - Tibetan cuisine - Chinese desserts - Chinese soup - Chinese pickles - Chinese tea - Chinese alcoholic beverages - Chinese herb tea
edit Categories
Select [►] to view subcategories
▼  China►  People's Republic of China►  China-related lists►  Buildings and structures in China►  Chinese culture►  Economy of China►  Education in China►  Geography of China►  Government of China►  Health in China►  History of China►  Organizations based in China►  Chinese people►  Politics of China►  Republic of China►  Chinese society►  Images of China►  China stubs
edit Things you can do
Add {{Portal|China}} to the See also section of China-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of China-related articles with the {{WikiProject China}} banner.
Rate the Unassessed China-related articles in the China WikiProject.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.
Requested articles: Create a requested article on China
Images and photos needed: Wikipedia requested photographs in China
Deletion discussions: listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/China
Stubs: Company stubs, Cuisine stubs, History stubs, More...
edit China's Politics
Politics of the People's Republic of China
edit
The General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, officially General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, is head of the Communist Party of China and the highest-ranking official within China, a standing member of the Politburo and head of the Secretariat. The officeholder is usually considered the paramount leader of China.
According to the Constitution, the General Secretary serves as an ex officio member of the Politburo Standing Committee, China's de facto top decision-making body. Since the early 1990s, the holder of the post has been, except for transitional periods, the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, making the holder the Commander-in-chief of the People's Liberation Army.
The current General Secretary is Xi Jinping (picture), who took the office at the 18th National Congress on 15 November 2012.
More...
Politics of the Republic of China
edit
The President of the Republic of China is the head of state of the Republic of China (ROC).
The Constitution names the president as head of state and commander-in-chief of the Republic of China Armed Forces (formerly known as the National Revolutionary Army). The president is responsible for conducting foreign relations, such as concluding treaties, declaring war, and making peace. The president must promulgate all laws and has no right to veto. Other powers of the president include granting amnesty, pardon or clemency, declaring martial law, and conferring honors and decorations.
The current President is Tsai Ing-wen (picture), since May 20, 2016. The first woman to be elected to the office, Tsai is the seventh president of the Republic of China under the 1947 Constitution and the second president from the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP).
More...
edit Wikipedias in languages found in China
粵語 / 广东话  (Cantonese)     •     
古文 / 文言文 (Classical Chinese)     •     
赣语 (Gan)     •     
Hak-kâ-fa (Hakka)     •     
قازاق تىلى (Kazakh)     •     
中文 / 普通话 (Mandarin) (Now unable to access in China Mainland because of the GFW)     •     
闽东语 (Min Dong)     •     
闽南语 (Min-nan)     •     
བོད་ཡིག (Tibetan)     •     
ئۇيغۇرچە (Uyghur)     •     
吴语 (Wu)     •     
Sawcuengh (Zhuang)
Incubator
 wiki incubator Xiang (湘语)
 wiki incubator Pu-Xian Min (莆仙话)
 wiki incubator Min Bei (闽北语)
 wiki incubator lahu (拉祜族，拉祜语)
 wiki incubator Nuosu (彝族，彝语)
 wiki incubator hmong (苗族，苗语)
 wiki incubator Bouyei (布依族，布依语)
 wiki incubator manchu (满族，满语)
 wiki incubator Xong (苗族，湘西苗语)
 wiki incubator Daw (苗族，白苗苗语)
 wiki incubator xibo (锡伯族，锡伯语)
 wiki incubator salar (撒拉族，撒拉语)
 wiki incubator цзинпо (景颇族，景颇语)
 wiki incubator Tai Nüa (傣族，德宏傣语)
 wiki incubator Amis (阿美族，阿美語)
 wiki incubator Western Yugur (裕固族，西部裕固语)
 wiki incubator northern tujia (土家族，北部土家语)
edit Associated Wikimedia
The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:
Wikibooks 
Wikimedia Commons
Wikinews 
Wikiquote 
Wikisource 
Wikiversity 
Wikivoyage 
Wiktionary 
Wikidata 
Books
Media
News
Quotations
Texts
Learning resources
Travel guides
Definitions
Database
Portals
Activities
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology
Random portal
What are portals?
List of portals
Sub-pages of Portal:China
Purge server cache
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:China&amp;oldid=982483761"
		Categories: China portalsAsian portalsChinaChina portalPortals by countryHidden categories: Portals with short descriptionPortals with undated maintenance templatesPortals with triaged subpagesAll portals with triaged subpagesAll portalsPortals with no named maintainerRandom portal component with more available subpages than specified maxRandom portal component with 31–40 available subpagesRandom portal component with 21–25 available subpagesRandom portal component with 26–30 available image subpagesRedirect targets of redirected portals with existing subpages
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		PortalTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikinews
		Languages
		العربيةAzərbaycancaBrezhonegČeštinaDeutschEspañolEuskaraFrançaisGalego한국어हिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаКыргызчаMagyarNederlands日本語ភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийScotsکوردیSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 8 October 2020, at 12:46 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
