	Gaudete Sunday
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Gaudete SundayOne of the candles surrounding the Christ Candle in the Advent wreath is rose coloured for Gaudete Sunday, the beginning of the third week in Advent.Observed byOccidentTypeChristianObservancesChurch servicescandlesAdvent hymnsDateSecond-final Sunday before Christmas Day2019 date15 December
Gaudete Sunday (/ɡaʊˈdɛtɛ/ gow-DET-eh) is the third Sunday of Advent in the liturgical calendar of the Western Church, including the Roman Catholic Church, the Anglican Communion, Lutheran Churches, and other mainline Protestant churches. It can fall on any date from 11 December to 17 December.
Contents
1 Gaudete
2 Background
3 Theme
4 Liturgical colour
5 See also
6 References
6.1 Footnotes
6.2 Bibliography
Gaudete[edit]
  The incipit for the Gregorian chant introit from which Gaudete Sunday gets its name
The day takes its common name from the Latin word Gaudete ("Rejoice"), the first word of the introit of this day's Mass:[1]
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0} Gaudete in Domino semper: iterum dico, gaudete. Modestia vestra nota sit omnibus hominibus: Dominus enim prope est. Nihil solliciti sitis: sed in omni oratione et obsecratione cum gratiarum actione petitiones vestræ innotescant apud Deum. Benedixisti Domine terram tuam: avertisti captivitatem Jacob.
This may be translated as: "Rejoice in the Lord always; again I say, rejoice. Let your forbearance be known to all, for the Lord is near at hand; have no anxiety about anything, but in all things, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be known to God.  Lord, you have blessed your land; you have turned away the captivity of Jacob." Philippians 4:4–6; Psalm 85 (84):1
Background[edit]
  Roman Catholic Gaudete Sunday Mass in which the priest is wearing the customary rose vestments
The season of Advent originated as a fast of 40 days in preparation for Christmas, commencing on the day after the feast of Saint Martin (11 November), whence it was often called Saint Martin's Lent, a name by which it was known as early as the fifth century. In the ninth century, the duration of Advent was reduced to four weeks (a period starting four Sundays before Christmas), and Advent preserved most of the characteristics of a penitential season, which made it a kind of counterpart to Lent. Gaudete Sunday is a counterpart to Laetare Sunday, and provides a similar break about midway through a season which is otherwise of a penitential character, and signifies the nearness of the Lord's coming.[2]
The spirit of the liturgy throughout Advent is one of expectation and preparation for the feast of Christmas as well as for the second coming of Christ, and the penitential exercises suitable to that spirit are thus on Gaudete Sunday suspended, as it were, for a while, in order to symbolize that joy and gladness in the promised Redemption.[2]
Theme[edit]
While the theme of Advent is a focus on the coming of Jesus in three ways: his first, his present, and his final Advent,[3] the readings for Gaudete Sunday deal with rejoicing in the Lord – Christian joy – as well as the mission of John the Baptist and his connection with Advent. The theologian Henri Nouwen described the difference between joy and happiness. While happiness is dependent on external conditions, joy is "the experience of knowing that you are unconditionally loved and that nothing – sickness, failure, emotional distress, oppression, war, or even death - can take that love away."[4] Thus joy can be present even in the midst of sadness.
In his 2014 Gaudete Sunday homily, Pope Francis said that Gaudete Sunday is known as the "Sunday of joy", and that instead of fretting about "all they still haven't" done to prepare for Christmas, people should "think of all the good things life has given you."[5]
Liturgical colour[edit]
  An Advent wreath with the customary single rose-coloured candle for Gaudete Sunday
On Gaudete Sunday rose-coloured vestments may be worn instead of violet[6] (or instead of deep blue, in some Anglican and Lutheran traditions), which is otherwise prescribed for every day in the season of Advent.[citation needed] Gaudete Sunday was also known as "Rose Sunday".[6]
In churches that have an Advent wreath, the rose-coloured candle is lit in addition to two of the violet- or blue-coloured candles, which represent the first two Sundays of Advent. Despite the otherwise somber readings of the season of Advent, which has as a secondary theme the need for penitence, the readings on the third Sunday emphasize the joyous anticipation of the Lord's coming.
In Anglicanism, the use of rose-pink, previously informally observed, was formally noted as an option in the Church of England in the Common Worship liturgical renewal.[7]
See also[edit]
Advent Sunday
"Gaudete", a Christmas carol
References[edit]
Footnotes[edit]
^ Alston 1909; Bower 2003, p. 100; Holmes 2012, p. 3.
^ a b Alston 1909.
^ Rojas, Roberto, Jr. (December 2015). "Gaudete Sunday: Breaking the Rules". The Lutheran Witness. Vol. 134. St. Louis, Missouri: Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod. ISSN 0024-757X. Retrieved 10 December 2018..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Laskey, Mike Jordan (11 December 2014). "This Gaudete Sunday, Rejoice Despite the Heartbreak All Around Us". National Catholic Reporter. Kansas City, Missouri. Retrieved 11 December 2018.
^ "Pope Celebrates Mass for Gaudete Sunday at Roman Parish". Vatican Radio. 14 December 2014. Archived from the original on 20 May 2017. Retrieved 11 December 2018.
^ a b Armentrout &amp; Slocum 2000, p. 213.
^ The traditional use of rose-pink vestments on this day is suggested in the liturgical colour sequence notes of Common Worship of which an on-line version may be found here.
Bibliography[edit]
.mw-parser-output .refbegin{font-size:90%;margin-bottom:0.5em}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul{list-style-type:none;margin-left:0}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul>li,.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>dl>dd{margin-left:0;padding-left:3.2em;text-indent:-3.2em;list-style:none}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-100{font-size:100%}
Alston, G. Cyprian (1909). "Gaudete Sunday" .  In Herbermann, Charles G.; Pace, Edward A.; Pallen, Condé B.; Shahan, Thomas J.; Wynne, John J. (eds.). Catholic Encyclopedia. 6. New York: Encyclopedia Press (published 1913). p. 394.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain.
Armentrout, Don S.; Slocum, Robert Boak, eds. (2000). An Episcopal Dictionary of the Church. New York: Church Publishing. ISBN 978-0-89869-211-2.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Bower, Peter C., ed. (2003). The Companion to the Book of Common Worship. Louisville, Kentucky: Geneva Press. ISBN 978-0-664-50232-4.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Holmes, Stephen Mark, ed. (2012). The Fathers on the Sunday Gospels. Collegeville, Minnesota: Liturgical Press. ISBN 978-0-8146-3540-7.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
vteAdventLiturgy
Advent Sunday
Angelus
Ave Maria
Christmas Eve
Ember days
Gaudete Sunday
Magnificat
Saint Nicholas Day
Narratives
Fall of man
Christian messianic prophecies
Isaiah 9:6
Isaiah 53
Davidic dynasty in Bible prophecy
Genealogy of Jesus
John 1:1
John the Baptist
Saint Joseph's dreams
Tree of Jesse
Traditions
Advent calendar
Advent candle
Christingle
Hanging of the greens
Christmas markets
List
Stir-up Sunday
Advent wreath
Moravian star
Songs and hymns
"Adam lay ybounden"
"Advent är mörker och kyla"
Advent song
Adventstid
Angelus ad virginem
"Bereden väg för Herran"
"Come, thou Redeemer of the earth"
"Conditor alme siderum"
"The Cherry-Tree Carol"
"Come, Thou Long Expected Jesus"
"Det är advent"
"Es ist ein Ros entsprungen"
Gabriel's Message
"The Holly and the Ivy"
"Hosianna, Davids son"
"Jesus Christ the Apple Tree"
"Lo! He comes with clouds descending"
"Long Ago, Prophets Knew"
"Macht hoch die Tür"
"Maria durch ein Dornwald ging"
"Meine Seele, dank und singe"
"Der Morgenstern ist aufgedrungen"
"Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland"
O Antiphons
"O Come, O Come, Emmanuel"
"O Heiland, reiß die Himmel auf"
"O How Shall I Receive Thee"
"Of the Father's Heart Begotten"
Rorate Caeli
"Sei uns willkommen, Herre Christ"
"There is no rose of such virtue"
"Tochter Zion, freue dich"
"Savior of the Nations, Come"
"Vi tänder ett ljus i advent"
"Hark, a Thrilling Voice Is Sounding"
"Wachet auf, ruft uns die Stimme"
Cantatas and music
Ärgre dich, o Seele, nicht, BWV 186a
Bereitet die Wege, bereitet die Bahn, BWV 132
Herz und Mund und Tat und Leben, BWV 147a
Handel's Messiah (Part I)
Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland, BWV 61
Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland, BWV 62
This Is the Record of John
Unser lieben Frauen Traum
Virga Jesse (Bruckner)
Wachet auf, ruft uns die Stimme, BWV 140
Wachet! betet! betet! wachet! BWV 70a
List of Advent Cantatas
Music publications
Carols for Choirs
New English Hymnal
The Oxford Book of Carols
The New Oxford Book of Carols
Piae Cantiones
English Hymnal
Hymns Ancient and Modern
The Hymnal 1982
Related topics
Anglican church music
Catholic music
Lutheran hymns
Carol service
Christmastide
Liturgical year
 Category
 Commons
 Christianity portal
vteLiturgical year of the Catholic ChurchOrdinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1969 Calendar)Advent
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
December 17 to 23
Christmas Season
Christmas
Holy Family
Mary, Mother of God
Epiphany
Baptism of the Lord
Ordinary Time I
Presentation of the Lord
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Palm Sunday
Holy Week
Paschal Triduum
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter Sunday
Octave
Divine Mercy Sunday
Ascension
Pentecost
Ordinary Time II
Trinity Sunday
Corpus Christi
Sacred Heart
Visitation
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the Cross
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Christ the King
Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1960 Calendar)Advent
Rorate Mass
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
Greater Ferias
Winter Ember Days
Christmas Season
Christmas
Octave Day of Christmas
Holy Name of Jesus
Epiphany Season
Epiphany
Holy Family
Baptism of the Lord
Purification of MaryP
LentPre-Lent
Septuagesima
Sexagesima
Quinquagesima
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Spring Ember Days
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Passiontide
Passion Sunday
Palm SundayP
Holy WeekP
Paschal Triduum
Tenebrae
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter SundayP
Octave
Rogation DaysP
AscensionP
Pentecost Season
Pentecost
Summer Ember Days
Trinity Sunday
Corpus ChristiP
Sacred Heart
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Precious Blood
Visitation
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the CrossP
Autumn Ember Days
Maternity of Mary
Christ the King
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Legend
P = Ordinary Procession according to the Roman Ritual
Legend
Italic font marks the 10 holy days of obligation in the universal calendar which do not normally fall on a Sunday.
Older calendars
1955
pre-1955
Tridentine
Liturgical colours
Ranking
Computus
 Catholicism portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gaudete_Sunday&amp;oldid=975055517"
		Categories: AdventChristian Sunday observancesDecember observancesHidden categories: Infobox holiday with missing fieldInfobox holiday (other)All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2018CS1 maint: ref=harvUse Oxford spelling from December 2018
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		ČeštinaEspañolEuskaraFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaItalianoNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSlovenščinaSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 26 August 2020, at 13:41 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
