	Portal:United Kingdom
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Wikimedia portal
Portal maintenance status: (No date set)
This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed.
Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here.
.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left{float:left;width:50%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right{float:right;width:49%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-wide{float:left;width:60%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-narrow{float:right;width:39%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-extra-wide{float:left;width:70%}.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-extra-narrow{float:right;width:29%}@media only screen and (max-width:800px){.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-wide,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-narrow,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-left-extra-wide,.mw-parser-output .portal-column-right-extra-narrow{float:inherit;width:inherit}}
Contents
Overviews
Outlines
Lists
Portals
A–Z index
Glossaries
Categories
Indices
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Human activities
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology
edit The United Kingdom Portal
.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutboxplain{float:right;border:1px solid #aaa;background:#fff;margin:0 0 0 1em;padding:0.3em 0.6em 0.2em 0.6em;text-align:center;font-size:85%;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutlist{display:inline-block;border-bottom:1px solid #aaa;margin-bottom:0.2em;font-weight:normal}.mw-parser-output .module-shortcutanchordiv{position:relative;top:-3em}.mw-parser-output li .module-shortcutanchordiv{float:right}ShortcutP:UK
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK or U.K.) or Britain, is a sovereign country located off the north­western coast of the European mainland. The United Kingdom includes the island of Great Britain, the north­eastern part of the island of Ireland, and many smaller islands. Northern Ireland shares  a land border with the Republic of Ireland. Otherwise, the United Kingdom is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean, with the North Sea to the east, the English Channel to the south and the Celtic Sea to the southwest, giving it the 12th-longest coastline in the world. The Irish Sea separates Great Britain and Ireland. The total area of the United Kingdom is 94,000 square miles (240,000 km2).
The United Kingdom is a unitary parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy. The monarch is Queen Elizabeth II, who has reigned since 1952, making her the world's longest-serving current head of state. The United Kingdom's capital is London, a global city and financial centre with an urban area population of 10.3 million.
The United Kingdom consists of four countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Their capitals are London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast, respectively. Apart from England, the countries have their own devolved governments, each with varying powers.  Other major cities include Birmingham, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, and Manchester.
The nearby Isle of Man, Bailiwick of Guernsey and Bailiwick of Jersey are not part of the UK, being Crown dependencies with the British Government responsible for defence and international representation. The union between the Kingdom of England (which included Wales) and the Kingdom of Scotland in 1707 to form the Kingdom of Great Britain, followed by the union in 1801 of Great Britain with the Kingdom of Ireland created the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Five-sixths of Ireland seceded from the UK in 1922, leaving the present formulation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The UK's name was adopted in 1927 to reflect the change. There are fourteen British Overseas Territories, the remnants of the British Empire which, at its height in the 1920s, encompassed almost a quarter of the world's landmass and was the largest empire in history. British influence can be observed in the language, culture and political systems of many of its former colonies.
The United Kingdom has the world's sixth-largest economy by nominal gross domestic product (GDP), and the ninth-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP). It has a high-income economy and a very high human development index rating, ranking 15th in the world. It was the world's first industrialised country and the world's foremost power during the 19th and early 20th centuries. The UK remains a great power, with considerable economic, cultural, military, scientific and political influence internationally. It is a recognised nuclear weapons state and is sixth in military expenditure in the world. It has been a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council since its first session in 1946.
The United Kingdom is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Council of Europe, the G7, the G20, NATO, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Interpol and the World Trade Organization (WTO). It was a member of the European Union (EU) and its predecessor, the European Economic Community (EEC) from 1 January 1973 until withdrawing on 31 January 2020.
 More about the United Kingdom... 
Refresh with new selections below (purge)
edit Featured article
The British Empire comprised the dominions, colonies, protectorates, mandates, and other territories ruled or administered by the United Kingdom, that had originated with the overseas colonies and trading posts established by England in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. At its height it was the largest empire in history and, for over a century, was the foremost global power. By 1922, the British Empire held sway over a population of about 458 million people, one-quarter of the world's population, and approximately a quarter of the Earth's total land area. As a result, its political, linguistic and cultural legacy is widespread. At the peak of its power, it was often said that "the sun never sets on the British Empire" because its span across the globe ensured that the sun was always shining on at least one of its numerous territories. The growth of Germany and the United States eroded Britain's economic lead by the end of the 19th century. Subsequent military and economic tensions between Britain and Germany were major causes of the First World War, for which Britain leaned heavily upon its Empire. The Second World War accelerated the decline of the Empire. Within two years of the end of the war, Britain granted independence to its most populous and valuable colony, India. During the remainder of the 20th century, most of the territories of the Empire became independent. After independence, many former British colonies joined the Commonwealth of Nations, a free association of independent states. Fourteen territories remain under British sovereignty, the British Overseas Territories. (more...)
More featured articles...
edit Featured biography
Ælfheah of Canterbury (954–1012) was an Anglo-Saxon Bishop of Winchester, later Archbishop of Canterbury. He became an anchorite before being elected abbot of Bath Abbey.  His piety and sanctity led to his promotion to the episcopate, and eventually to his becoming archbishop. Ælfheah furthered the cult of St Dunstan and also encouraged learning. He was captured by Viking raiders in 1011 and killed by them the following year, after refusing to allow himself to be ransomed. Ælfheah was canonized as a saint in 1078. Saint Thomas Becket, a later Archbishop of Canterbury, prayed to him just before his own slaying in Canterbury Cathedral. Ælfheah became a monk early in life. He first entered the monastery of Deerhurst, but then moved to Bath, where he became an anchorite. He was noted for his piety and austerity, and rose to become abbot of Bath Abbey. Probably due to the influence of Dunstan, the Archbishop of Canterbury (959–988), Ælfheah was elected Bishop of Winchester in 984, and was consecrated on 19 October that year. (more...)
More featured biographies...
edit Did you know...
... that the Mary Rose was a Tudor period warship that sank during the Battle of the Solent in 1545 and was salvaged (pictured) by maritime archaeologists 437 years later?
... that Sir Hugh Norman-Walker was forced to decline the appointment of the Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man in 1973 because his wife would not take up the new post with him?
... that a skimmington, a custom in which victims were mocked and humiliated in a noisy public procession, occurred in England as late as 1917?
... that Princess Alice of the United Kingdom was married to Prince Louis of Hesse in an atmosphere described by Queen Victoria as "more of a funeral than a wedding"?
... that as a result of the Scarman report into the 1981 Brixton riots, the independent Police Complaints Authority was established in 1985?
... that the archaeological finds from Steeple Langford include a Bronze Age palstave and a Romano-British painted pebble?
... that Slade's Case has been called a "watershed" moment in English law?
 More did you know... 
edit Subportals
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
edit Related portals
England
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Ireland
edit Featured picture
Photo credit: Peter Weis
The red telephone box designed by Sir Giles Gilbert Scott is a familiar sight on the streets of the United Kingdom and is recognised throughout the world as one of the country's cultural icons. The example pictured here is a K6, the design seen most frequently outside London, and is situated near St Paul's Cathedral in the same city.
More featured pictures...
edit In the news
8 October 2020 – Saudi Arabia–United Kingdom relations
Three British MPs launch an investigation into the disappearances of Saudi princes Mohammed bin Nayef and Ahmed bin Abdulaziz, alongside other political dissidents in the kingdom. (Al-Araby)
5 October 2020 – United Kingdom–Venezuela relations, Venezuelan presidential crisis
The Court of Appeals for England and Wales overturns a ruling earlier this year by the High Court of Justice that stated the government of Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro did not have the right to access the Central Bank of Venezuela's gold, worth more than US$1.8 billion, currently stored by the Bank of England due to the UK government's recognition of oppositional leader Juan Guaidó as the actual president. (The Guardian)
4 October 2020 – Economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on cinema
Cineworld announces it is temporarily shutting down all its cinemas in the United Kingdom and United States, putting more than 5,500 jobs at risk, after reporting £1.3bn in losses since the COVID-19 lockdown. (BBC)
4 October 2020 – COVID-19 pandemic
COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom
The United Kingdom surpasses 500,000 cases of COVID-19 after a backlog of infections left out of Public Health England's daily figures between September 25 and October 2 led to a record 22,961 cases reported in 24 hours. The glitch led to 15,841 cases not being passed on to data dashboards used for contact tracing. (The Guardian)
3 October 2020 – COVID-19 pandemic
COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom
 More from Wikinews... 
edit Categories
United Kingdom
▼  United Kingdom►  United Kingdom by country►  United Kingdom-related lists►  Buildings and structures in the United Kingdom►  British culture►  Economy of the United Kingdom►  Education in the United Kingdom►  Geography of the United Kingdom►  Government of the United Kingdom►  History of the United Kingdom►  Images of the United Kingdom►  Organisations based in the United Kingdom►  British people►  Politics of the United Kingdom►  British society►  Wikimedia UK►  United Kingdom stubs
edit WikiProjects
Main
United Kingdom
UK-wide
UK geography ·  UK politics ·  UK subdivisions
Selected area-based projects
England (London) ·  Scotland ·  Northern Ireland ·  Wales (Cardiff)
Subject-specific projects
Baronetcies ·  Clans of Scotland ·  Cricket ·  Terry Pratchett's Discworld ·  Football clubs ·  Sherlock Holmes ·  British military history ·  Peerage
edit Things you can do
Visit the British Wikipedians' notice board.The noticeboard is the central forum for information and discussion on editing related to the United Kingdom.
Comment at the British deletion sorting page.This page lists deletion discussions on topics relating to the United Kingdom.
edit Other UK-connected Wikipedias
Wicipedia yn Gymraeg • Scots Wikipaedia • Wikipedia ann an Gàidhlig na h-AlbaVicipéid i nGaeilge na hÉireann • Wikipedia Gaelg • Wikipedia Kernowek • Englisc Wicipædia
edit Wikimedia
The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject:
Wikibooks
Books
Commons
Media
Wikinews 
News
Wikiquote 
Quotations
Wikisource 
Texts
Wikiversity
Learning resources
Wikivoyage 
Travel guides
Wiktionary 
Definitions
Wikidata 
Database
Portals
Activities
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology
Random portal
What are portals?
List of portals
Sub-pages of Portal:United Kingdom
Purge server cache
                                         20 ms        1.9%
    ipairs                                                            20 ms        1.9%
                                                     20 ms        1.9%
    recursiveClone                                     20 ms        1.9%
    [others]                                                          40 ms        3.7%
Number of Wikibase entities loaded: 0/400
-->
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:United_Kingdom&amp;oldid=953067898"
		Categories: European portalsPortals by countryUnited Kingdom portalsUnited KingdomHidden categories: Portals with short descriptionPortals with undated maintenance templatesPortals with triaged subpagesAll portals with triaged subpagesAll portalsPortals with no named maintainerRandom portal component with over 50 available subpagesRandom portal component with over 50 available image subpages
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		PortalTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		WikinewsWikisource
		Languages
		العربيةAzərbaycancaবাংলাČeštinaDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიLatinaBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålOccitanPolskiPortuguêsРусскийکوردیСрпски / srpskiУкраїнськаاردوZazaki中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 25 April 2020, at 15:13 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
