	Shrovetide
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		  During Shrovetide (and especially on Shrove Tuesday, many Christians confess their sins, in preparation for the somber season Lent; depicted is an Evangelical Lutheran confessional in Luther Church (Helsinki, Finland)
  Many Christian congregations celebrate Shrovetide through pancake breakfasts, which are held on Shrove Monday or Shrove Tuesday.
Christian liturgical year
Western
Advent
Christmastide
Epiphanytide
Ordinary Time (1 and 2)
Pre-Lent / Shrovetide
Lent
Holy Week / Paschal Triduum
Eastertide
Pentecost
Eastern
Nativity Fast
Christmastide
Pre-Great Lent
Great Lent
Eastertide
Pentecost
Apostles' Fast
Weeks after Pentecost
Dormition Fast
East Syriac Rite
Weeks of Annunciation
Weeks of Epiphany
Weeks of Great Fast
Weeks of Resurrection
Weeks of Apostles
Qaita or Weeks of Summer
Eliya-Sliba-Muse or Weeks of Eliyah, Cross and Muse
Qudas Edta or Weeks of Dedication of Church
vte
Shrovetide, also known as the Pre-Lenten Season, is the Christian period of preparation before the beginning of the liturgical season of Lent.[1][2]
Shrovetide starts on Septuagesima Sunday,[1] includes Sexagesima Sunday, Quinquagesima Sunday (commonly called Shrove Sunday),[3] as well as Shrove Monday,[4] and culminates on Shrove Tuesday, also known as Mardi Gras.[5] 
During the season of Shrovetide, it is customary for Christians to ponder what Lenten sacrifices they will make for Lent.[6] Another hallmark of Shrovetide is the opportunity for a last round of merrymaking associated with Carnival before the start of the somber Lenten season.[7] On the final day of the season, Shrove Tuesday, many traditional Christians, such as Anglicans, Lutherans, Methodists and Roman Catholics,[8] "make a special point of self-examination, of considering what wrongs they need to repent, and what amendments of life or areas of spiritual growth they especially need to ask God's help in dealing with."[9] During Shrovetide, many churches place a basket in the narthex to collect the previous year's Holy Week palm branches that were blessed and distributed during the Palm Sunday liturgies; on Shrove Tuesday, churches burn these palms to make the ashes used during the services held on the very next day, Ash Wednesday.[10]
Western churches[edit]
In the Roman Rite (pre-1970 form, and today in the Ordinariate (Anglo-Catholic) Form[11] and Extraordinary (Tridentine) Form[12]), and in similar Anglican and  Lutheran uses, a pre-Lenten season lasts from Septuagesima Sunday until Shrove Tuesday[13] and has thus also been known as Shrovetide. The Extraordinary form of the Roman Rite that includes this special period of 17 days refers to it as the season of Septuagesima; the Ordinariate Form uses the term Pre-Lent. The liturgy of the period is characterized by violet vestments (except on feasts), the omission of the Alleluia before the Gospel, and a more penitential mood. Fasting does not commence until the beginning of Lent on Ash Wednesday. The earliest the Pre-Lenten season can begin is January 18 and the latest it can end is March 9. It is absent in the Ordinary Form of the Roman Rite and more recent Anglican forms of all these traditions, but may be found in some Lutheran churches who use the One-Year Lectionary to organize the church year.[citation needed]
(Candlemas, which can be considered to be the last Christmastime feast, on February 2, can fall in pre-Lent if Easter is early enough.  It can never fall in Lent.)
In Northern Germany, local tradition states that if "sausages and sauerkraut are eaten at Shrovetide, good luck will follow".[14] On the last day of Shrovetide, in Bohemia, a man personifies "Shrovetide" in a procession of masqueraders and whoever is able to snatch straw from his hat and place it under a hen in the coming Spring is said to have eggs that surely will hatch.[14]
Eastern Churches[edit]
Main articles: Paschal cycle and Great Lent
In the Eastern Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite, the pre-Lenten season lasts three weeks, beginning on the Sunday of the Publican and the Pharisee and continuing through the Sunday of Forgiveness (the day before the beginning of Great Lent). Since the liturgical day begins at sunset, and Great Lent begins on a Monday, the point at which Great Lent begins is at Vespers on the night of the Sunday of Forgiveness, with a "Ceremony of Mutual Forgiveness" (in some monasteries, this ceremony is performed at Compline instead of Vespers). Thus begins the first day of the Great Fast, which is known as Clean Monday. The weeks of pre-Lent and Great Lent are anticipatory by nature; they begin on Monday and end on Sunday, each week being named for the theme of the upcoming Sunday. The hymns used during the Pre-Lenten and Lenten seasons are taken from a book called the Triodion.
The weeks of the Pre-Lenten Season break are:
Zacchaeus Sunday (Slavic tradition) is sometimes regarded as a pre-Lenten Sunday because of its place in the Slavic lectionary.  In that tradition, it is the 11th Sunday before Pascha (Easter).  There are no hymns proper to this Sunday, however; its only distinguishing feature is the reading of the Gospel concerning Zacchaeus (Luke 19:1–10).  This lectionary reading is sometimes also appointed on the same Sunday in the Byzantine ("Greek") lectionary, as well.  The week following this Sunday is a normal, non-Lenten time, since it falls outside the Triodion.
The Publican and the Pharisee: 10th Sunday before Pascha (70 days).  The week following this Sunday is a fast-free week, lest the faithful be tempted, like the Pharisee to boast about fasting.
The Prodigal Son: 9th Sunday before Pascha (63 days).  The week following this Sunday is the last during which the laity may eat meat or meat products. The fasting rules for this week are the same as those for non-Lenten periods.
The Last Judgment or Meat-Fare Sunday (the last day meat may be eaten): 8th Sunday before Pascha (56 days).  The week following this Sunday is called Cheese-Fare Week and is a fast-free week, with the exception that meat and meat products are forbidden.
Sunday of Forgiveness or Cheese-Fare Sunday: 7th Sunday before Pascha (49 days).  This Sunday is the last day dairy products may be consumed. Throughout Great Lent, fish, wine, and olive oil will be allowed only on certain days.
References[edit]
^ a b Gardner, Kevin J. (18 September 2008). Poems in the Porch: The Radio Poems of John Betjeman. A&amp;C Black. p. 56. ISBN 9781441144324. Septuagesima is the third Sunday before Lent and commences the pre-Lenten season of Shrovetide..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Lester, G.A. (29 May 2014). Three Late Medieval Morality Plays. Bloomsbury Publishing. p. 36. ISBN 9781408144077. The time-setting is winter (lines 54, 323), but it is not clear whether it is Christmas, as implied by the 'Christmas song' (line 332), or Shrovetide, the pre-Lenten period of merrymaking, when the playing of football (cf. line 732 and note) was one of the ways of enjoying a final fling before the austerities to come.
^ Rickaby, John (1920). The Ecclesiastical Year. Joseph F. Wagner. p. 48. By its name Shrovetide means the time of shrift and is a religious season. It goes along with Septuagesima, Sexagesima, and Quinquagesima, as part of the preparation for Lent, which is itself preparatory to the great Easter Festival.
^ Whistler, Laurence (5 October 2015). English Festivals. Dean Street Press. p. 86. ISBN 9781910570494. The Tuesday that follows the first eyelash of a new moon in February is the last of the three days of Shrovetide: preceded by Quinquagesima Sunday and Shrove Monday.
^ O'Connor, Kevin (1 January 2006). Culture and Customs of the Baltic States. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 95. ISBN 9780313331251. As the culmination of the four-day meat-eating period known as Shrovetide, Shrove Tuesday is the last day before Lent, a period of fasting that begins on Ash Wednesday and lasts for 40 days until Easter.
^ Kelvey, Jon (13 February 2018). "Strawbridge United Methodist keeps Shrove Tuesday pancake tradition". The Baltimore Sun. Retrieved 25 February 2020.
^ Beadle, Richard (17 March 1994). The Cambridge Companion to Medieval English Theatre. Cambridge University Press. p. 69. ISBN 9780521459167. One of these was the pre-Lent Carnival extravaganza of Shrovetide, though this seems to have been celebrated to a much lesser extent in Britain than it was (and still is) on the continent: however, we know of English Shrovetide plays, and Mankind bears signs of being one of them (335).
^ Walker, Katie (7 March 2011). "Shrove Tuesday inspires unique church traditions". Daily American. Retrieved 4 January 2016. Many local churches will celebrate Shrove Tuesday tomorrow, a day of feasting commonly known as “pancake day.” Shrove Tuesday is typically observed by Episcopal, Lutheran, Methodist and Catholic denominations, but each church celebrates the day in its own, unique way. The Rev. Lenny Anderson of the St. Francis-in-the-Fields Episcopal Church in Somerset said the primary focus of Shrove Tuesday is to prepare for Lent, the period of the liturgical year leading up to Easter.
^ Kiefer, James. Shrove Tuesday. Rowan University.
^ "Shrove Tuesday". The Times-Reporter. 18 February 2020. Retrieved 4 April 2020.
^ 2018 ORDO for the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter, ISBN 9781982037147
^ 2016 Ordo for use with the 1962 Missale Romanum Forma Extraordinara, Canons Regular of St John Cantius, Biretta Books, Chicago 2015
^ "The season of Septuagesima runs from I vespers of Septuagesima Sunday to compline of Tuesday after Quinquagesima Sunday" (1960 Code of Rubrics).
^ a b Daniels, Cora Linn Morrison; Stevens, Charles McClellan (1903). Encyclopaedia of Superstitions, Folklore, and the Occult Sciences of the World: A Comprehensive Library of Human Belief and Practice in the Mysteries of Life. J. H. Yewdale &amp; Sons Company. p. 1577.
vteHoly Week and Easter
Controversies
Date (List)
Etymology
Observances
Traditions
Days
Palm Sunday
Holy Monday
Holy Tuesday
Holy Wednesday
Maundy Thursday
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter
Easter Monday
Easter Friday
Easter Saturday
Events
Shrovetide
Lent
Great Lent
Paschal Triduum
Easter Week
Bright Week
Octave of Easter
Eastertide
Divine Mercy Sunday
Mid-Pentecost
Pentecost
Trinity Sunday
Christianity
Passion of Jesus
Last Supper
Crucifixion of Jesus
Burial of Jesus
Resurrection of Jesus
Dormition of the Theotokos
Tenebrae
Easter Vigil
Epitaphios
Exsultet
Good Friday Prayer
For Jews
Jesus
Lumen Christi
Myrrhbearers
Paschal candle
Paschal cycle
Paschal greeting
Paschal Homily
Paschal trikirion
Paschal troparion
Pentecostarion
Traditions
Artos
Burning of Judas
Cascarón
Clipping the church
Croatian pisanica
Crucession
Easter basket
Easter Bilby
Easter bonnet
Easter Bunny
Easter egg
Easter egg tree
Easter parade
Easter postcard
Easter Sepulchre
Egg dance
Egg decorating
Egg decorating in Slavic culture
Egg hunt
Egg rolling
Egg tapping
Egg tossing
Fasika
Gorzkie żale
Holy Fire
Holy Week procession
Lieldienas
Osterbrunnen
Pace Egg play
Polish pisanka
Pysanka
Radonitsa
Rouketopolemos
Saitopolemos
Scoppio del carro
Sunrise service
Święconka
Traditional Easter games and customs
Media
Bleib bei uns, denn es will Abend werden, BWV 6
Christ lag in Todes Banden, BWV 4
Easter hymns
Easter Oratorio
Erfreut euch, ihr Herzen, BWV 66
Der Friede sei mit dir, BWV 158
Ein Herz, das seinen Jesum lebend weiß, BWV 134
Films
Der Himmel lacht! Die Erde jubilieret, BWV 31
I Will Mention the Loving-kindnesses
Ich lebe, mein Herze, zu deinem Ergötzen, BWV 145
Passion hymns
Russian Easter Festival Overture
Topics
Computus
Dionysius Exiguus' Easter table
Easter controversy
Easter Epic
Ecclesiastical new moon
Paschal Full Moon
Pussy willow
Reform of the date of Easter
Society
Ēostre
Maslenitsa
Salzburg Easter Festival
vteLiturgical year of the Catholic ChurchOrdinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1969 Calendar)Advent
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
December 17 to 23
Christmas Season
Christmas
Holy Family
Mary, Mother of God
Epiphany
Baptism of the Lord
Ordinary Time I
Presentation of the Lord
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Palm Sunday
Holy Week
Paschal Triduum
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter Sunday
Octave
Divine Mercy Sunday
Ascension
Pentecost
Ordinary Time II
Trinity Sunday
Corpus Christi
Sacred Heart
Visitation
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the Cross
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Christ the King
Extraordinary Form of the Roman Rite of the Latin Church (1960 Calendar)Advent
Rorate Mass
Immaculate Conception
Gaudete Sunday
Greater Ferias
Winter Ember Days
Christmas Season
Christmas
Octave Day of Christmas
Holy Name of Jesus
Epiphany Season
Epiphany
Holy Family
Baptism of the Lord
Purification of MaryP
LentPre-Lent
Septuagesima
Sexagesima
Quinquagesima
Lent
Ash Wednesday
Spring Ember Days
Saint Joseph
Annunciation
Laetare Sunday
Passiontide
Passion Sunday
Palm SundayP
Holy WeekP
Paschal Triduum
Tenebrae
Holy Thursday
Chrism Mass
Mass of the Lord's Supper
Good Friday
Holy Saturday
Easter Vigil
Easter Season
Easter SundayP
Octave
Rogation DaysP
AscensionP
Pentecost Season
Pentecost
Summer Ember Days
Trinity Sunday
Corpus ChristiP
Sacred Heart
Saint John the Baptist
Saints Peter and Paul
Precious Blood
Visitation
Transfiguration
Assumption
Nativity of Mary
Exaltation of the CrossP
Autumn Ember Days
Maternity of Mary
Christ the King
All Saints' Day
All Souls' Day
Presentation of Mary
Legend
P = Ordinary Procession according to the Roman Ritual
Legend
Italic font marks the 10 holy days of obligation in the universal calendar which do not normally fall on a Sunday.
Older calendars
1955
pre-1955
Tridentine
Liturgical colours
Ranking
Computus
 Catholicism portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shrovetide&amp;oldid=962337461"
		Categories: LentHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2017
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		FrançaisBahasa IndonesiaItalianoMagyarPolskiPortuguês
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 13 June 2020, at 13:12 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
