	SS Gothenburg
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		British steamship wrecked on the Great Barrier Reef
SS Gothenburg
History
United Kingdom
Name:
GothenburgNamesake:
GothenburgBuilder:
LungleyLaunched:
1 April 1854Commissioned:
1855Renamed:
RMS Celt, 1857Fate:
Sold, 1862
Australia
Acquired:
1862Out of service:
1875Renamed:
SS Gothenburg, 1866Fate:
Wrecked, 24 February 1875.Notes:
Rebuilt 1873
General characteristics Tonnage:
501 tonsLength:
197 ft (60 m)Propulsion:
Sails &amp; propellerSail plan:
BarquentineComplement:
34 crew
The SS Gothenburg was a steamship that operated along the British and then later the Australian and New Zealand coastlines. In February 1875, Gothenburg left Darwin, Australia and while en route to Adelaide it encountered a cyclone-strength storm off the north Queensland coast. The ship was wrecked on the Great Barrier Reef north-west of Holbourne Island on 24 February 1875. Survivors in one of the lifeboats were rescued two days later by Leichhardt, while the occupants of two other lifeboats that managed to reach Holbourne Island were rescued several days later. Twenty-two men survived, while between 98 and 112 others died, including a number of high-profile civil servants and dignitaries.
Contents
1 Description and history
2 Shipwreck
2.1 Survivors
3 Aftermath
3.1 Report
3.2 Lifeboats
4 Present day
4.1 Legacy
5 Survivors
5.1 Survivors
5.2 Full known passenger list
5.3 Full known crew list
6 See also
7 References
Description and history[edit]
Gothenburg was built 1855 at Lungley's building yards in Millwall, Essex.[1] The vessel was 501-tons, 197 feet long, with a 120-horsepower (89 kW), coal-burning engine. Records at the time described Gothenburg as barquentine rigged, with its funnel set well aft between the main and mizzen masts and was fitted with four lifeboats, two port and two starboard.[2]
Gothenburg was launched stern-first on 1 April 1854. Although on launching it collided with the steamship Clyde, which sank in the River Thames. Gothenburg was severely damaged at the stern, including extensive propeller damage.[3]
The North of Europe Steam Navigation Company, operated her between Irongate Wharf, near the Tower of London, and Sweden.[4]  In 1857, she was acquired by the Union Castle Line and renamed as RMS Celt.[1]  In June 1862, McMerkan, Blackwood and Co. of Melbourne purchased her for the Australian trade and in that year she made a protracted voyage from England to Australia by sail.[5][6] She was one of the most modern vessels working around the Australian coastline in the 1860s, and became a popular ship as she was considered reliable.[7] After many years on the Australia-New Zealand run, her owners transferred her to the Australian coastal service.[8]
In 1873, she was lengthened and refitted in Adelaide to enable longer distances under steam and greater passenger and cargo capacity.[5][9]  Following her modifications, her name reverted once again to Gothenburg.[10][11]
  SS Gothenburg docked at Port Adelaide wharf after her lengthening in 1873.
In November 1874, several shipowners were contracted for two years from the South Australian government to provide ten round trips between the colonial capital of Adelaide and its furthest outpost, Port Darwin.[7] Port Darwin was feeling the effects of a gold rush at Pine Creek and growing quickly as a trade post with the Dutch East Indies. However, all the local banks sent their money, together with government paperwork and the Royal Mail, around the east coast to Adelaide.[12] On successful completion of each voyage, the South Australian government would pay the owners £1000 sterling.
When Gothenburg left Port Darwin on Tuesday, 16 February 1875, Captain Robert George Augustus Pearce[13] was under orders to make best possible speed. Pearce had been her captain on the Adelaide-Darwin run for some time and had built up a solid reputation. He was a man of the sea, a man of sobriety and kindness and was well respected by his fellow sea captains.[6]
  Captain R.G.A. Pearce
Amongst the approximately 98 passengers and 37 crew (surviving records vary) were government officials, circuit court judges, Darwin residents taking their first furlough and miners.[12] Also aboard was the French Vice Consul Edouard Durand and James Millner, the medical officer in George W. Goyder's 1869 expedition to found the first colony at Port Darwin. There were also several prisoners aboard, bound for the Adelaide jail. Locked in the Captain's cabin was approximately 93 kilograms (3,000 ozt) of gold valued at £40,000 consigned to the ES&amp;A Bank in Adelaide.[11] (approx US$2.6 million in 2008). Durand reportedly also carried a tin box with him containing gold sovereigns and coins worth in excess of £3,000.[6]
In three days of fine weather, Gothenburg travelled 1,500 kilometres (900 mi) from Palmerston (Darwin) to Somerset on Cape York. The weather began to worsen so the ship stopped to take on ballast at Somerset. While she was anchored, conditions deteriorated to a point where both anchor chains parted.[14] After the loss of the anchors, Gothenburg was forced to prematurely steam out 13 kilometres (7.0 nmi) because of strong currents; at that point, she brought up for the night.[6]
Two days later, Tuesday 23 February, Gothenburg passed Cooktown at about 2:00 pm.[15] The wind and rain severely increased and cloud cover became so thick it blocked out the sun. Despite this, she continued the journey south into worsening weather, in a deep water passage between the North Queensland coastline and the Great Barrier Reef, known as the inner route. Although taking this route provided some protection from the open sea, captains had to navigate and thread their way through a number of then uncharted reefs.[12] All passengers and crew expected to be in Newcastle on Sunday evening for a scheduled stopover.
Shipwreck[edit]
.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left} Wreck of Gothenburg
On the evening of 24 February 1875, the ship was still heading south in almost cyclonic conditions with fore, top and mainsails set and the steam engines running at full speed. Flooding rains lashed the entire Queensland coast and Captain Pearce reportedly could not see land or sun.[6] At approximately 7:00 pm, and for reasons undetermined, he altered course and shortly afterwards, at full speed (11 to 12 knots), hit a section of the Great Barrier Reef at low tide 31 miles (50 km) north west of Holbourne Island. Gothenburg struck with such force that she was left high up on the reef. Immediately, an order came out to lower the sails. At first, there was no panic and many passengers returned to their cabin bunks expecting Gothenburg would come off the reef at high tide.[16]
In an attempt to refloat her, Captain Pearce ordered Gothenburg to be lightened forward. Water casks used as ballast and passengers were positioned aft in an endeavour to refloat her as the tide rose, but without success. Finally, a fatal attempt was made to refloat her, by reversing the engine hard. The vessel came half off the reef, but holed herself badly and then slewed broadside to the waves, in a much worse position.[2][17] However, with the tide rising and some cargo now being dumped overboard, all aboard still expected Gothenburg to float free. With strong winds changing direction and seas increasing, the boiler fires were extinguished by water rising through the damaged stern. Around midnight, the chief engineer came on deck to report that the engine room was flooded and the engine was of no further use. With heavy seas now rushing down hatchways and into the cabins, Gothenburg was doomed and Captain Pearce was forced to admit that the situation had become desperate.[17]
  Steamer Gothenburg
The storm made launching the lifeboats almost impossible. At about 3:00 am, Captain Pearce ordered the two port lifeboats lowered, each with four crew on board. While being passed astern one of the boats broke the painter and became adrift. Her crew tried hard to pull up to the ship's side, but it was impossible in the heavy squall. The other was accidentally let go and both boats, in heavy seas, were unable to be retrieved.[15]
At about 3:30 am on Thursday, 25 February, Gothenburg continued to heel over. The deck became so steep that passengers and crew had to climb over the rails to get on her side.[6] At about 4:00 am, the two remaining starboard lifeboats were lowered and were rushed by the passengers. One starboard lifeboat, crammed with women and children, capsized when others tried to board it. Some half dozen men righted her in the water, but, damaged and without oars, food or water, it quickly drifted away and was never found.[18] The second starboard lifeboat also capsized when the sea crashed over, washing all the occupants into the sea. One passenger recalled the sea on the downwind side of the ship being covered with human heads bobbing up and down like corks.[7] Five or six men and one woman climbed onto the upturned hull. The boat was still connected to its painter, but it was unable to be recovered from the heavy sea and wind which swept the woman off and drowned her.[15] A passenger, John Cleland, swam to the connected, but upturned lifeboat and further secured it with a rope tied to Gothenburg. In less than fifteen minutes, nearly 100 people had drowned; washed away or trapped in their water-filled cabins.[6] By this time, several sharks were circling the wreck.[2]
  Artist impression of the wreck of the steamer Gothenburg
Those still on board Gothenburg tried to cling to the rigging, but throughout the early morning of 25 February, several more people were drowned after they were swept overboard by large broadside waves.[2][19] Many passengers associated with the gold diggings were unwilling to let go of their gold and money belts, as it was probably their life savings; these individuals insisted on keeping them tied and once overboard reportedly drowned very quickly.[14]
Survivors[edit]
By morning of the 25 February, only the masts were visible protruding from the water, with 14 people clinging to the rigging, where they remained for the next twenty four hours in cyclonic weather.[15] At low tide, Gothenburg sank stern first and the wreck fell apart. However, the remaining starboard lifeboat, which had capsized, was still held by her painter and the rope attached by Cleland. At first light on 26 February the weather eased and the survivors managed to right the boat and bail it out; they prepared a makeshift sail and paddled for the mainland. About seven hours later they realised they could not make mainland, so they altered course for an island that could be seen in the distance. When they arrived, they were met by four of the crew from one of the port lifeboats. Their lifeboat had been severely damaged on the rocks on the opposite side of the island in an attempt to land there the day before.[17] 
  Gothenburgs's Turtle Shell Roll
The other port lifeboat, with four crew on board, was picked up by the steamer Leichhardt at an island at the entrance to Whitsunday Passage. The steamer immediately reversed course back towards the wreck, which she reached at approximately 3.30 pm on Friday, 26 February. Gothenburg was a complete wreck; the funnel was gone and she had sunk to the eyes of the lower rigging. Leichhardt's Chief Officer and four hands went alongside, but nothing other than her masts could be seen above the water except for the body of a naked man floating nearby. They assumed the other victims had been taken by sharks.[20] Leichhardt searched for survivors until last light and then made way for Bowen where the alarm was raised.[17]
At Holbourne Island, the other 18 survivors were living off raw bird's eggs and rain water that had pooled in the island rocks.[16] Because rescue was uncertain, they engraved ship details and their names on the concave side of a large turtle shell, in the hope that it would be found in the future. On Sunday, 28 February 15 of them set off in the starboard lifeboat for an island about 20 miles away to the south, which appeared to be closer to the main shipping lane. A rescue ship, sent looking for survivors, picked up the group and took them safely to Bowen. Another rescue ship, Bunyip from Townsville, subsequently returned to Holbourne Island and rescued the three remaining survivors.[2]
Aftermath[edit]
Although reports vary, records show that between 98 and 112 people drowned.[21] Most records state the death toll at 102. Only 22 people survived (12 crew and 10 passengers).[22] All 25 women and children aboard and all the officers died.[23]
  Thomas Reynolds
Edward W. Price, Magistrate and Commissioner Circuit Court of the Northern Territory, who remained behind in Darwin, lost his wife and six children.[24] Devastated by the news, he was given six months leave on full pay by the government. The retired fifth Premier of South Australia, Thomas Reynolds and his wife, Anne, both drowned as did Eduard Durand, the French Vice Consul.[18]
Other notable passengers who died were Dr James Millner and his family, Justice William A. Wearing QC,[25] Circuit Court Judge; Joseph Whitby, acting South Australian Crown Solicitor; Richard Wells, NT Times &amp; Gazette editor; Lionel Pelham, a senior public servant; Commander Andrew Ross of the Royal Navy; C. J. Lyons, Justice Wearing's senior assistant; William Shoobridge, Secretary to several mining companies; A. L. McKay, Government Surveyor; and several Overland Telegraph employees.[26]
Never before in Australian history had so many high-profile public servants, dignitaries and diplomats died in a single tragedy.[17] Many passengers who died were Darwin residents and news of the tragedy severely affected the small community, reportedly taking several years to recover.[27] Most of Gothenburg's crew were from Melbourne and as a result of the shipwreck, 11 widows and 34 children were left destitute in Victoria.[7]
At Bowen, twelve survivors left with Captain Lake on the ship Victoria headed for Sydney. They all got free passage from McMerkan, Blackwood and Co, the owners of Gothenburg.[28] The four survivors from the second port lifeboat that were picked up by the steamer Leichhardt, remained with that ship and subsequently made way for Brisbane.[7][28]
  From left: Robert Brazil, John Cleland and James Fitzgerald in 1875
Two weeks later a hard-hat diver, sent down to recover the gold and other valuables, found the bodies of two women at the foot of the saloon staircase, one with her arm around the other. The diver tried to reach them to take a lock of hair or some other personal item that could be identified by their loved ones, but the restriction of the air line made it impossible. The gold in the Captain's cabin was recovered after much difficulty.[29] While recovering the gold, several sharks that were caught near the wreck were found to contain human bones, remains and jewellery.[2][6]
There were three heroes identified that tragic night, all attested to by all the other survivors, for their attempts to save other passengers.[7] In recognition of their bravery, on 26 July 1875, the Governor of South Australia, Sir Anthony Musgrave, presented passengers James Fitzgerald and John Cleland and crewman Robert Brazil with gold medals and a gold watch.[16] The Gothenburg Relief Fund Committee also presented each of them with a gold chain.
Report[edit]
The report of the Marine Board of Queensland determined that: .mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}the loss of the Gothenburg may in a great measure be attributed to an unexpected offset seawards, caused by heavy floods in the Burdekin and other rivers discharging themselves into the sea at that portion of the coast; at the same time they do not consider that due caution was observed in the navigation of the vessel, as they are of the opinion that some attempt should have been made to sight Cape Bowling Green Lighthouse, or Cape Upstart, and, failing that, that the lead should have been used, which, on this part of the coast, is a sufficient guide for keeping clear of the Barrier; a vessel carrying a depth not exceeding 15 fathoms (27 m) or 16 fathoms (29 m) being well clear of that danger, while a less depth would show an approach to the shore of the mainland.[23]
Lifeboats[edit]
There was also much speculation at the time in the Adelaide and Melbourne press on why the lifeboats had not been launched earlier. Survivor James Fitzgerald pointed out in his recollection that, had the lifeboats been filled to capacity, no one would have survived the severe weather conditions experienced. He also commented that passenger vessels were not required to carry enough lifeboats, concluding that there were insufficient places for all Gothenburg's passengers and crew.[30] It was not until RMS Titanic sank some 37 years later in 1912, that it was made compulsory for all British registered ships to carry sufficient lifeboats for everyone on board.[31]
Present day[edit]
Today, only parts of the deteriorated iron hull and the coal fired square boilers of Gothenburg remain. The wreck lies between 9 and approximately 16 metres (52 ft) of water on the western side of Old Reef, 130 kilometres (81 mi) southeast of Townsville.[32] The Gothenburg shipwreck is registered on the Queensland National Estate (place ID #8923) as a Heritage site, and is protected under Section 7 of the (Commonwealth) Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976, which requires that divers have a permit to enter the 200m protected zone that has been declared around the wreck.[33] Its official location is: Old Reef, Great Barrier Reef, 75 kilometres (47 mi) north-east of Ayr, at 19°22′06″S 148°03′21″E﻿ / ﻿19.36833°S 148.05583°E﻿ / -19.36833; 148.05583Coordinates: 19°22′06″S 148°03′21″E﻿ / ﻿19.36833°S 148.05583°E﻿ / -19.36833; 148.05583.[34] The reef around the wreck provides good diving with an extensive coral garden. A strict non-disturbance policy applies to marine flora and fauna as well as to the fabric of the wreck. Pelagic fish and reef sharks are common.[35]
Legacy[edit]
  Gothenburg Crescent with Darwin in the background.
The northern Darwin suburb of Millner was named after Dr James Millner who, together with his family, lost their lives on Gothenburg. Most streets in the northern Darwin suburb of Coconut Grove and some in the adjacent suburb of Millner, were named after local Darwin residents, interstate visitors and crew who lost their lives during the shipwreck.[36] Gothenburg Crescent, in the inner Darwin suburb of Stuart Park, was named after the ship.[37]
The large turtle shell, which was engraved by the 18 survivors at Holbourne Island, is displayed at the South Australian Museum, on North Terrace in Adelaide.[16]
Survivors[edit]
In 1875, a detailed list of all passengers and crew was published by J.H. Lewis, Printer &amp; Publisher, albeit with several errors and spelling mistakes.[26] That document was used as the main source of the following survivors' table.
The survivors' surnames have been reconciled against rescue ships' log books, other records and a photo of the engraved turtle shell. Known discrepancies have been clarified, where possible, in the comments section.[7]
Survivors[edit]
Name
Status
Comment
Andrew, Stewart
Passenger
Gold miner; some records have spelt as "Andrews"
Bilts, Richard
Crew
Able Seaman; some records have incorrectly spelt as "Betts" or "Blyes"
Brazil, Robert (Paddy)
Crew
Fireman; awarded a Medal for bravery; Brazil Crescent in Karama named after
Burns, William
Crew
Trimmer; rescued by the steamer Leichhardt
Campbell, James, J.
Passenger
Died shortly after rescue from ill effects of exposure
Cleland, John
Passenger
Gold miner; Cleland Street in Millner named after; awarded a Medal for bravery
Cockram, Thomas
Passenger
Gold miner; some records have incorrectly spelt as "Cockburn" or "Cockerman"
Cooper, George
Crew
Fireman; some records have incorrectly spelt as George "Cover"
Falk, William, F.
Crew
Able Seaman
Fitzgerald, James, J.
Passenger
Fitzgerald Street in Millner named after; awarded a Medal for bravery
Griffiths, William (Bill)
Crew
Able Seaman
Harris, David
Passenger
Virginia Gold Mining Company; Harris Street in Millner named after
Halminson, Salin or Salve
Crew
Able Seaman; rescued by steamer Leichhardt; several incorrect variations of his surname exist
Hogan, Patrick, J.
Passenger
Gold miner
Hudson, Joseph
Crew
Fireman; rescued by the steamer Leichhardt
Kruger, Jack
Passenger
Gold miner
Marks, James
Crew
Able Seaman
Nelson, Harry
Crew
Forecabin Steward; rescued by the steamer Leichhardt
Reynolds, Jack
Crew
Able Seaman
Roberts, William
Passenger
Gold miner; some records have incorrectly spelt as William "Romers"
Thomas, William, S.
Passenger
Purser of Winns Gold Mining Company, NT; only Saloon passenger to survive
Wylie, David
Crew
Able Seaman; Helmsman at time of grounding
Full known passenger list[edit]
Name
Comment
Status
Andrew, Stewart
Gold miner; some records have spelt as "Andrews"
Survived
Blades
Male
Died
Cameron, George Francis
Probably a gold miner
Died
Campbell, James, J.
Survived, but died shortly after rescue from the ill effects of exposure
Survived
Cartwright family
Edward &amp; 2 sons; Cartwright Court in Coconut Grove named after
All died
Cleave, Edward
Male; gold miner and prisoner
Died
Cleland, John
Gold miner; Cleland Street in Millner named after; awarded a Medal for bravery
Survived
Cockram, Thomas
Gold miner; some records have incorrectly spelt as "Cockburn" or "Cockerman"
Survived
Copeland, T.
Male
Died
Cox family
Darwin residents; Mr Thomas Price Wynne Cox, wife Mary with 3 daughters and 1 son
All died
Craig, Joseph
Darwin resident; Craig Crescent in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Deane, James
Gold miner; surname has also been spelt "Dean"
Died
Dittmar, A.W.
Gold miner; surname has also been spelt "Dittmer"
Died
Durand, Edouard
French Vice Consul; Durand Court in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Easther, William
Overland Telegraph employee; Easther Crescent in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Eastwright family
Father and son
Both died
Edgar, J.
Male; mining engineer
Died
Fairhall, Henry William
Cattle drover and gold miner
Died
Fitzgerald, James, J.
Fitzgerald Street in Millner named after; awarded a Medal for bravery
Survived
Floyd, William
Overland Telegraph employee; Floyd Court in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Fogerty, James, F.
Gold miner
Died
Fry, Charles
Saddle maker; Darwin resident; Fry Street in Palmerston named after
Died
Glenister, H.
Male; gold miner
Died
Goulder family
Joseph Peake Goulder (age 45) and son William Thomas Goulder (age 19)
Both died
Graham, William H.
Employed by Adcock, Caldwell &amp; Co, merchants
Died
Griffiths, James
Gold miner
Died
Harris, David
Virginia Gold Mining Company; Harris Street in Millner named after
Survived
Hart family
Patrick and wife; Darwin residents; Hart Court in Coconut Grove named after
Both died
Hazell, Henry
Darwin resident; Overland Telegraph employee; Hazell Court in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Hearce, H.
Male
Died
Hogan, Patrick, J.
Gold miner
Survived
Hunt family
James Alexander and wife Eliza; publican of Great Britain Hotel
Both died
Johns, Edwin, S.
Stonemason
Died
Kruger, Jack
Gold miner
Survived
Lauche, W.
Male; gold miner; has also been spelt "Lauchs"
Died
Lebane, Charlie
Gold miner
Died
Lizzar, Simon
Gold miner and Overland Telegraph employee
Died
Lyons, C. J.
Male; public Servant to Judge Wearing
Died
Martin, Richard
Overland Telegraph employee; Martin Crescent in Coconut Grove named after. Left widow and three children at Strathalbyn
Died
MaCarthy, John
Overland Telegraph employee
Died
McCallum, Malcolm
Gold miner
Died
McCreagh, R. (Jim)
Warden's teamster
Died
McHarg, W.
Male; surveyor; Overland Telegraph employee
Died
McKay, A. L.
Male; government surveyor
Died
McKnight, R.
Male; gold miner
Died
Millner family
Dr James, wife Caroline and 4 children; Darwin suburb of Millner named after
All died
Mitchell, John
Gold miner and Overland Telegraph employee
Died
Musgrave, Charles, W.
With Goyder's 1868 expedition and Overland Telegraph, Darwin resident; Musgrave Crescent in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Nation family
William, wife (Mary) &amp; infant son; Nation Crescent in Coconut Grove named after
All died
Newcombe, J.
Male; gold miner and Overland Telegraph employee
Died
Ostermann family
Mrs (widow) &amp; son; Ostermann Street in Coconut Grove named after
Both died
Peters, Otto
Darwin storekeeper; Peters Street in Coconut Grove named after. Previously partner in Adelaide store Peters &amp; Martin, which became John Martin &amp; Co.
Died
Pelham, Lionel James
Senior Public Servant and Sketcher
Died
Price (née Hamilton) family
Minna &amp; her 6 children;  Price Street in Parap named after the family
All Died
Radford, Thomas
Male; gold miner; Radford Court in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Reynolds, Thomas
Retired Premier of South Australia; Reynolds Court in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Reynolds (née Litchfield), Anne
Wife of Thomas Reynolds; aunt of N.T. explorer Fred Litchfield
Died
Roberts, William
Gold miner; some records have incorrectly spelt as William "Romers"
Survived
Roe, Dan
Died
Ross, Andrew
Commander, Royal Navy; manager of the Australian Fishing Company
Died
Runge, John
Male; Darwin hotelkeeper; Runge Street in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Shoobridge, William
Mining company secretary; Shoobridge Street in Millner named after
Died
Simms, T.
Male
Died
Slocomb, James
Carpenter
Died
Stone, A.
Male; gold miner
Died
Thomas, William, S.
Purser of Winns Gold Mining Company, NT; only Saloon passenger to survive
Survived
Thompson, W.
Male
Died
Vigor, N. S.
Female (Widow) Darwin resident; Vigor Street in Coconut Grove named after
Died
Wearing, William Alfred
Justice and Circuit Court Judge
Died
Wells, Richard
Darwin resident; NT Times &amp; Gazette Editor; Wells Street in Ludmilla named after
Died
Whitby, Joseph James
Acting South Australian Crown Solicitor
Died
Williams, J. A. D.
Male; Overland Telegraph employee
Died
Wilson, W. D.
Male; teamster in Goyder's party
Died
Full known crew list[edit]
Name
Comment
Status
Anderson, John
Third Engineer
Died
Bilts, Richard
Able Seaman; some records have incorrectly spelt as "Betts" or "Blyes"
Survived
Bond, P.S.
Steward
Died
Brazil, Robert (Paddy)
Fireman; awarded a Medal for bravery; Brazil Crescent in Karama named after
Survived
Brown, Charles, T.
Steward
Died
Burns, William
Trimmer
Survived
Butler or Butter, Thomas
Able Seaman
Died
Cheese, George, S.
Steward
Died
Clark, William
Fireman; body found with identification by a rescue vessel
Died
Cooper, George
Fireman; some records have incorrectly spelt as George "Cover"
Survived
Davies or Davis, R. F.
Chief Officer
Died
Delaney, John
Fireman
Died
Flegg, John
Fireman
Died
Falk, William, F.
Able Seaman
Survived
Green, Charles
Second Engineer
Died
Griffiths, William (Bill)
Able Seaman
Survived
Hodness or Hodnett, James
First Cook
Died
Halminson, Salin or Salve
Able Seaman; died about 2 weeks after rescue from the ill effects of exposure
Survived
Hudson, Joseph
Fireman
Survived
Hunter, Adam
Fireman
Died
Jackson or Jeakson, Charles
Able Seaman
Died
Marks, James
Able Seaman
Survived
McDermott or Dermott, Charles
Cook's mate
Died
Nelson, Harry
Forecabin Steward
Survived
Nock, W. C.
Steward
Died
Pearce, R.G.A. (James)
Captain or Master of the Gothenburg; Pearce Place in Millner named after
Died
Peverren, A.
Able Seaman
Died
Randall, William
Second Cook
Died
Reynolds, Jack
Able Seaman
Survived
Robertson, M.A.
Stewardess; only female crew member
Died
Rosena, Gustave
Fireman
Died
Ross or Rose, David
Carpenter
Died
Short, David
Chief Engineer
Died
Smith, James
Steward
Died
Stephens or Stevens, R.
Second Officer
Died
Tyrrell, James
Fireman
Died
Wylie, David
Able Seaman; Helmsman at time of grounding
Survived
See also[edit]
List of disasters in Australia by death toll – Wikipedia list article
List of shipwrecks of Australia – Wikipedia list article
Timeline of Australian history
Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976#Historic shipwreck protected zones
References[edit]
^ a b Murray, Marischal (1933). Ships and South Africa: A Maritime Chronicle of the Cape, with Particular Reference to Mail and Passenger Liners from the Early Days of Steam down to the Present. London: Oxford University Press. OCLC 8228940. Retrieved 19 February 2008..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b c d e f Holthouse, Hector (1971). "The Gothenburg's Gold". Cyclone. Adelaide: Rigby. pp. 16–24. ISBN 0-85179-290-1. OCLC 251985.
^ "Multum in Parvo". Liverpool Mercury etc (2574). Liverpool. 4 April 1854.
^ Murray, Marischal (1953). Union-Castle Chronicle, 1853–1953. London: Longmans, Green. OCLC 1962878. Retrieved 19 February 2008.
^ a b Plowman, Peter (2007). Coast to Coast: The Great Australian Coastal Liners. Dural, New South Wales: Rosenberg Publishing. ISBN 1-877058-60-2. OCLC 174284555. Retrieved 19 February 2007.
^ a b c d e f g h McInnes, Allan (1982). "Wreck of the Gothenburg". Royal Historical Society of Queensland. Royal Historical Society of Queensland. XI (3): 26–44. ISSN 0085-5804. OCLC 5823772.
^ a b c d e f g Wilson, Helen (1992). "The Loss of RMSS Gothenburg". Journal of Northern Territory History. 3: 67–86. ISSN 1034-7488. OCLC 31683149.
^ Hocking, Charles (1969). Dictionary of disasters at sea during the age of steam including sailing ships &amp; ships of war lost in action 1824–1962. London: Lloyd's Register of Shipping. p. 280 (pdf). ISBN 978-0-900528-03-3. OCLC 47378.
^ Parsons, Ronald (1981). Australian coastal passenger ships. Adelaide: Magill, S. Aust. p. 86. ISBN 0-909418-20-9. OCLC 27577759.
^ "The Gothenburg". Supreme Court Library. 2000. Archived from the original on 17 November 2007. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ a b "Historic Shipwrecks: Gothenburg". Queensland Government. 20 December 2006. Archived from the original on 14 November 2007. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ a b c Shoobridge, Gonzalo E. (14 July 2000). "The SS Gothenburg's Tragedy". Archived from the original on 30 September 2006. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ Pearce was invariably referred to as Robert or R. G. A. Pearce in communications, however some contemporaries referred to him as "James", but with what knowledge or otherwise it is impossible to know.
^ a b "Gothenburg". Shipwrecks. 2003. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Shipwrecks Audio Transcript: Gothenburg.
^ a b c d Crowley, Frank K. (1980). "The Gothenburg Tragedy". Colonial Australia, 1875–1900. West Melbourne: Nelson. ISBN 978-0-17-005410-2. OCLC 7032667.
^ a b c d "The Wreck of the Gothenburg: Presentation to the Bowen Historical Society". Bowen Independent. 1978.
^ a b c d e Edwards, Hugh (1978) [1976]. Australian and New Zealand shipwrecks and sea tragedies. Phillip Mathews. OCLC 27505119.
^ a b SS Gothenburg (2009). Queensland Museum. Retrieved 16 June 2009.  Archived 2 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ Meston, Archibald (4 August 1907). "Tragedies of the Sea". Archived from the original on 11 March 2005. Retrieved 1 January 2008.
^ Meston, Archibald (20 October 1923). "Wreck of the Gothenburg". Archived from the original on 12 March 2005. Retrieved 18 January 2008.
^ "History of Northern Territory Health Services" (pdf). Northern Territory Library. 26 February 1985. Retrieved 31 December 2007. (page 2)
^ "Wreck of an Australian Steamer; Loss of more than 100 lives" (pdf). The New York Times. 9 May 1875. Retrieved 1 January 2008.
^ a b Heath, G. P. (23 February 1875). "Report of the Marine Board of Queensland". Gary Standen. Archived from the original on 1 March 2009. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ "Edward William Price" (PDF). Government House Northern Territory, Office of the Administrator. 2007. Archived from the original (pdf) on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 21 December 2007.
^ Searcy, Alfred (1909) [1907]. In Australian Tropics. Australia: G. Robertson. ISBN 1-152-33175-2. OCLC 152275931.
^ a b Lewis, J. H. (1875). The Wreck of the "Gothenburg" on her voyage from Port Darwin to Adelaide. Adelaide: J. H. Lewis. pp. 5–24.
^ "Previous cyclones in Darwin". Cyclone Tracy. Northern Territory Library. 21 April 1998. Archived from the original on 6 February 2008. Retrieved 7 January 2008.
^ a b "Mariners and ships in Australian Waters: Leichhardt". State Records Authority of New South Wales. 4 March 1875. Archived from the original on 6 September 2007. Retrieved 3 January 2008.
^ "Underwater Eden: Encountering the Great Barrier Reef". Britannica.com. 2000. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ "Narration of wreck by Mr Fitzgerald, passenger". The Argus. 20 March 1875. p. 5.
^ Lord, Walter (1978) [1955]. A Night to Remember. England: Penguin Books. ISBN 0-553-01060-3. OCLC 37337880.
^ "Gothenburg Wreck". World Dive Site Atlas. wannadive.net. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ "Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976". Australian Commonwealth Government. 1976. Retrieved 30 March 2008.
^ "Gothenburg Shipwreck". Aussie Heritage. 29 January 2007. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ "Gothenburg Shipwreck". Sport Extreme. Archived from the original on 9 September 2005. Retrieved 31 December 2007.
^ "The Origin of Suburbs, Localities, Towns and Hundreds in the Greater Darwin area (Coconut Grove)". Northern Territory Lands Group. 21 June 2007. Retrieved 1 January 2008.
^ "Place Names Register Extract: Gothenburg Crescent". Northern Territory Government. 26 October 1966. Retrieved 18 January 2008.
vteShipwrecks and maritime incidents in 1854Shipwrecks
21 Jan: RMS Tayleur
1 Mar: City of Glasgow
31 Mar: USCS Phoenix
8 Apr: Gazelle
15 Apr: Powhattan
12 May: HMS Tiger
May (unknown date): Lady Nugent, HMS Resolute
26 Jun: Fatima
25 Aug: HMS Assistance
7 Sep: City of Philadelphia
11 Sep: Arkhangel Gavriil, Selafail, Uriil, Varna
27 Sep: Arctic (disaster)
September (unknown date): USS Albany, USS Porpoise
1 Oct: Yankee Blade
13 Nov: New Era
14 Nov: Henri IV, HMS Prince
30 Nov: Nile
December (unknown date): Diana
Other incidents
1 Apr: Gothenburg
Apr (unknown date): HMS Victory
18 May: Arctic
6 Jul: Duguesclin
22 Jul: Duperré
23 Jul: HMS Valorous
Jul Saint Louis
19 Sep: Austerlitz
27 Sep: Vesta
30 Sep: Ocean
28 Oct: HMS Cossack
14 Nov: HMS Agamemnon, HMS Britannia, Iéna, HMS Sans Pareil, Ville de Paris
21 Dec: Tynwald
Unknown date: Young Australian
1853   1855
vteShipwrecks and maritime incidents in 1875Shipwrecks
c. Jan: Georgia
24 Feb: Gothenburg
 7 May: Schiller
13 Jun: Geffrard
18 Jun: Saranac
21 Jul: Forfait
26 Aug: Comet
 1 Sep: Vanguard
27 Sep: Ellen Southard
c. Sep: Edith
31 Oct: Magenta
 6 Nov: Pacific
 9 Nov: City of Waco
 6 Dec: Deutschland
22 Dec: Goliath
   Unk: Dunbrody
Other incidents
 9 Mar: Adriatic
21 Jul: Jeanne d'Arc
18 Aug: Alberta
 1 Sep: Iron Duke
← 1874
1876 →
vteAustralian historic shipwrecks with a protected zoneNational
Aarhus (1894)
Alert (1893)
Cato (1804)
Centaur (1943)
Clonmel (1841)
Emden (1914)
Gothenburg (1875)
Kormoran (1941)
M24 (1942)
Mermaid (1829)
Pandora (1791)
Porpoise (1803)
I-124 (1942)
Sydney (1941)
Yongala (1911)
Zuytdorp (1712)
Northern Territory
Booya (1974)
South Australia
Hobart (2000)
South Australian (1837)
Zanoni (1867)
Related topics
Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976
Note: Number in brackets refers to the year when the vessel was lost or deliberately sunk.
vteUnderwater diving
Diving modes
Atmospheric pressure diving
Freediving
Saturation diving
Scuba diving
Snorkeling
Surface oriented diving
Surface-supplied diving
Unmanned diving
Diving equipment
Cleaning and disinfection of personal diving equipment
Human factors in diving equipment design
Basic equipment
Diving mask
Snorkel
Swimfin
Breathing gas
Bailout gas
Bottom gas
Breathing air
Decompression gas
Emergency gas supply
Heliox
Nitrox
Oxygen
Travel gas
Trimix
Buoyancy andtrim equipment
Buoyancy compensator
Power inflator
Dump valve
Diving weighting system
Ankle weights
Integrated weights
Trim weights
Weight belt
Decompressionequipment
Decompression buoy
Decompression cylinder
Decompression trapeze
Dive computer
Diving shot
Jersey upline
Jonline
Diving suit
Atmospheric diving suit
Dry suit
Sladen suit
Standard diving suit
Rash vest
Wetsuit
Dive skins
Hot-water suit
Helmetsand masks
Anti-fog
Diving helmet
Free-flow helmet
Lightweight demand helmet
Orinasal mask
Reclaim helmet
Shallow water helmet
Standard diving helmet
Diving mask
Band mask
Full-face mask
Half mask
Instrumentation
Bottom timer
Depth gauge
Dive computer
Dive timer
Diving watch
Helium release valve
Pneumofathometer
Submersible pressure gauge
Mobilityequipment
Diving bell
Closed bell
Wet bell
Diving stage
Swimfin
Monofin
PowerSwim
Towboard
Diverpropulsionvehicle
Advanced SEAL Delivery System
Cosmos CE2F series
Dry Combat Submersible
Human torpedo
Motorised Submersible Canoe
Necker Nymph
R-2 Mala-class swimmer delivery vehicle
SEAL Delivery Vehicle
Shallow Water Combat Submersible
Siluro San Bartolomeo
Wet Nellie
Wet sub
Safetyequipment
Alternative air source
Octopus regulator
Pony bottle
Bolt snap
Buddy line
Dive light
Diver's cutting tool
Diver's knife
Diver's telephone
Through-water communications
Diving bell
Diving safety harness
Emergency gas supply
Bailout block
Bailout bottle
Lifeline
Screw gate carabiner
Emergency locator beacon
Rescue tether
Safety helmet
Shark-proof cage
Snoopy loop
Navigation equipment
Distance line
Diving compass
Dive reel
Line marker
Surface marker buoy
Silt screw
Underwaterbreathingapparatus
Atmospheric diving suit
Diving cylinder
Burst disc
Diving cylinder valve
Diving helmet
Reclaim helmet
Diving regulator
Mechanism of diving regulators
Regulator malfunction
Regulator freeze
Single-hose regulator
Twin-hose regulator
Full face diving mask
Open-circuitscuba
Scuba set
Bailout bottle
Decompression cylinder
Independent doubles
Manifolded twin set
Scuba manifold
Pony bottle
Scuba configuration
Sidemount
Sling cylinder
Divingrebreathers
Carbon dioxide scrubber
Carleton CDBA
CDLSE
Cryogenic rebreather
CUMA
DSEA
Dolphin
Electro-galvanic oxygen sensor
FROGS
Halcyon PVR-BASC
Halcyon RB80
IDA71
Interspiro DCSC
KISS
LAR-5
LAR-6
LAR-V
LARU
Porpoise
Ray
Siebe Gorman CDBA
Siva
Viper
Surface-supplieddiving equipment
Air line
Diver's umbilical
Diving air compressor
Gas panel
Hookah
Scuba replacement
Sea Trek
Snuba
Standard diving dress
Escape set
Davis Submerged Escape Apparatus
Momsen lung
Steinke hood
Submarine Escape Immersion Equipment
Divingequipmentmanufacturers
AP Diving
Apeks
Aqua Lung America
Aqua Lung/La Spirotechnique
Beuchat
René Cavalero
Cis-Lunar
Cressi-Sub
Dacor
DESCO
Dive Xtras
Divex
Diving Unlimited International
Drägerwerk
Fenzy
Maurice Fernez
Technisub
Oscar Gugen
Heinke
HeinrichsWeikamp
Johnson Outdoors
Mares
Morse Diving
Nemrod
Oceanic Worldwide
Porpoise
Sub Sea Systems
Shearwater Research
Siebe Gorman
Submarine Products
Suunto
Diving support equipmentAccess equipment
Boarding stirrup
Diver lift
Diving bell
Diving ladder
Diving platform (scuba)
Diving stage
Downline
Jackstay
Launch and recovery system
Messenger line
Moon pool
Breathing gashandling
Air filtration
Activated carbon
Hopcalite
Molecular sieve
Silica gel
Booster pump
Carbon dioxide scrubber
Cascade filling system
Diver's pump
Diving air compressor
Diving air filter
Water separator
High pressure breathing air compressor
Low pressure breathing air compressor
Gas blending
Gas blending for scuba diving
Gas panel
Gas reclaim system
Gas storage bank
Gas storage quad
Gas storage tube
Helium analyzer
Nitrox production
Membrane gas separation
Pressure swing adsorption
Oxygen analyser
Oxygen compatibility
Decompressionequipment
Built-in breathing system
Decompression tables
Diving bell
Bell cursor
Closed bell
Clump weight
Launch and recovery system
Wet bell
Diving chamber
Diving stage
Recreational Dive Planner
Saturation system
Platforms
Dive boat
Canoe and kayak diving
Combat Rubber Raiding Craft
Liveaboard
Subskimmer
Diving support vessel
HMS Challenger (K07)
Underwaterhabitat
Aquarius Reef Base
Continental Shelf Station Two
Helgoland Habitat
Jules' Undersea Lodge
Scott Carpenter Space Analog Station
SEALAB
Tektite habitat
Remotely operatedunderwater vehicles
8A4-class ROUV
ABISMO
Atlantis ROV Team
CURV
Deep Drone
Épaulard
Global Explorer ROV
Goldfish-class ROUV
Kaikō ROV
Long-Term Mine Reconnaissance System
Mini Rover ROV
OpenROV
ROV KIEL 6000
ROV PHOCA
Scorpio ROV
Sea Dragon-class ROV
Seabed tractor
Seafox drone
Seahorse ROUV
SeaPerch
SJT-class ROUV
T1200 Trenching Unit
VideoRay UROVs
Safety equipment
Diver down flag
Diving shot
Hyperbaric lifeboat
Hyperbaric stretcher
Jackstay
Jonline
Reserve gas supply
General
Diving spread
Air spread
Saturation spread
Hot water system
Sonar
Underwater acoustic positioning system
Underwater acoustic communication
FreedivingActivities
Aquathlon
Apnoea finswimming
Freediving
Haenyeo
Pearl hunting
Ama
Snorkeling
Spearfishing
Underwater football
Underwater hockey
Underwater ice hockey
Underwater rugby
Underwater target shooting
Competitions
Nordic Deep
Vertical Blue
Disciplines
Constant weight (CWT)
Constant weight without fins (CNF)
Dynamic apnea (DYN)
Dynamic apnea without fins (DNF)
Free immersion (FIM)
No-limits apnea (NLT)
Static apnea (STA)
Skandalopetra diving
Variable weight apnea (VWT)
Variable weight apnea without fins
Equipment
Diving mask
Diving suit
Hawaiian sling
Polespear
Snorkel (swimming)
Speargun
Swimfins
Monofin
Water polo cap
Freedivers
Deborah Andollo
Peppo Biscarini
Sara Campbell
Derya Can Göçen
Goran Čolak
Carlos Coste
Robert Croft
Mandy-Rae Cruickshank
Yasemin Dalkılıç
Leonardo D'Imporzano
Flavia Eberhard
Şahika Ercümen
Emma Farrell
Francisco Ferreras
Pierre Frolla
Flavia Eberhard
Mehgan Heaney-Grier
Elisabeth Kristoffersen
Loïc Leferme
Enzo Maiorca
Jacques Mayol
Audrey Mestre
Karol Meyer
Stéphane Mifsud
Alexey Molchanov
Natalia Molchanova
Dave Mullins
Patrick Musimu
Guillaume Néry
Herbert Nitsch
Umberto Pelizzari
Annelie Pompe
Michal Risian
Stig Severinsen
Tom Sietas
Aharon Solomons
Martin Štěpánek
Walter Steyn
Tanya Streeter
William Trubridge
Devrim Cenk Ulusoy
Danai Varveri
Alessia Zecchini
Nataliia Zharkova
Hazards
Barotrauma
Drowning
Freediving blackout
Deep-water blackout
Shallow-water blackout
Hypercapnia
Hypothermia
Historical
Ama
Octopus wrestling
Swimming at the 1900 Summer Olympics – Men's underwater swimming
Organisations
AIDA International
Scuba Schools International
Australian Underwater Federation
British Freediving Association
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins
Performance Freediving International
Professional divingOccupations
Ama
Commercial diver
Commercial offshore diver
Hazmat diver
Divemaster
Diving instructor
Diving safety officer
Diving superintendent
Diving supervisor
Haenyeo
Media diver
Police diver
Public safety diver
Scientific diver
Underwater archaeologist
Military diving
Army engineer diver
Clearance diver
Frogman
Royal Navy ships diver
Special Boat Service
United States military divers
U.S. Navy diver
U.S.Navy master diver
United States Navy SEALs
Underwater Demolition Team
Underwater work
Commercial offshore diving
Dive leader
Diver training
Recreational diver training
Hyperbaric welding
Media diving
Nondestructive testing
Pearl hunting
Police diving
Potable water diving
Public safety diving
Scientific diving
Ships husbandry
Sponge diving
Submarine pipeline
Underwater archaeology
Archaeology of shipwrecks
Underwater construction
Offshore construction
Underwater demolition
Underwater photography
Underwater search and recovery
Underwater videography
Salvage diving
SS Egypt
Kronan
La Belle
SS Laurentic
RMS Lusitania
Mars
Mary Rose
USS Monitor
HMS Royal George
Vasa
Diving contractors
COMEX
Helix Energy Solutions Group
Tools &amp; equipment
Abrasive waterjet
Airlift
Baited remote underwater video
In-water surface cleaning
Brush cart
Cavitation cleaning
Pressure washing
Pigging
Lifting bag
Remotely operated underwater vehicle
Thermal lance
Tremie
Water jetting
Underwaterweapons
Limpet mine
Speargun
Hawaiian sling
Polespear
Underwaterfirearm
Gyrojet
Mk 1 Underwater Defense Gun
Powerhead
Underwater pistols
Heckler &amp; Koch P11
SPP-1 underwater pistol
Underwater revolvers
AAI underwater revolver
Underwater rifles
ADS amphibious rifle
APS underwater rifle
ASM-DT amphibious rifle
Recreational divingSpecialties
Altitude diving
Cave diving
Deep diving
Ice diving
Muck diving
Open-water diving
Rebreather diving
Sidemount diving
Solo diving
Technical diving
Wreck diving
Diverorganisations
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Cave Divers Association of Australia (CDAA)
Cave Diving Group (CDG)
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn (CFT)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas (FEDAS)
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins (FFESSM)
International Association for Handicapped Divers (IAHD)
National Association for Cave Diving (NACD)
Woodville Karst Plain Project (WKPP)
Diving tourismindustry
Dive center
Environmental impact of recreational diving
Scuba diving tourism
Shark tourism
Sinking ships for wreck diving sites
Diving eventsand festivals
Diversnight
Underwater Bike Race
Recreationaldive sitesReef divingregions
Arrecifes de Cozumel National Park
Edmonds Underwater Park
Great Barrier Reef
iSimangaliso Marine Protected Area
Poor Knights Islands
Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area
Reef divesites
Artificial reef
Gibraltar Artificial Reef
Shark River Reef
Osborne Reef
Fanadir
Gamul Kebir
Palancar Reef
Underwater artworks
Cancún Underwater Museum
Christ of the Abyss
Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park
Wreck divingregions
Chuuk Lagoon
Edmonds Underwater Park
Finger Lakes Underwater Preserve Association
Maritime Heritage Trail – Battle of Saipan
Michigan Underwater Preserves
Robben Island Marine Protected Area
Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area
Tulagi
Tulamben
Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve
Wreck Alley, San Diego
Wreck divesites
HMS A1
HMS A3
USS Aaron Ward
Abessinia
Aeolian Sky
Albert C. Field
Andrea Doria
Antilla
Antilles
Aquila
USS Arkansas
Bianca C.
SS Binnendijk
HMS Boadicea
Booya
HMSAS Bloemfontein
Breda
HMAS Brisbane
HMHS Britannic
Bungsberg
HMAS Canberra
Carl D. Bradley
Carnatic
SMS Dresden
Dunraven
Eastfield
HMT Elk
Ellengowan
RMS Empress of Ireland
HMS Falmouth
Fifi
SS Francisco Morazan
Fujikawa Maru
Fumizuki
SATS General Botha
USNS General Hoyt S. Vandenberg
HMS Ghurka
Glen Strathallan
SAS Good Hope
Gothenburg
Herzogin Cecilie
Hilma Hooker
Hispania
HMS Hood
HMAS Hobart
Igara
James Eagan Layne
Captain Keith Tibbetts
King Cruiser
SMS Kronprinz
Kyarra
HMS Laforey
USAT Liberty
Louis Sheid
USS LST-507
SMS Markgraf
Mikhail Lermontov
HMS M2
Maine
Maloja
HMS Maori
Marguerite
SS Mauna Loa
USAT Meigs
Mendi
USCGC Mohawk
Mohegan
RMS Moldavia
HMS Montagu
MV RMS Mulheim
Nagato
Oceana
USS Oriskany
Oslofjord
P29
P31
Pedernales
Persier
HMAS Perth
SAS Pietermaritzburg
Piłsudski
Pool Fisher
HMS Port Napier
Preußen
President Coolidge
PS Queen Victoria
Radaas
Rainbow Warrior
RMS Rhone
Rondo
Rosehill
Royal Adelaide
Royal Charter
Rozi
HMS Safari
Salem Express
USS Saratoga
USS Scuffle
HMS Scylla
HMS Sidon
USS Spiegel Grove
Stanegarth
Stanwood
Stella
HMAS Swan
USS Tarpon
Thesis
Thistlegorm
Toa Maru
Torrey Canyon
SAS Transvaal
U-40
U-352
U-1195
Um El Faroud
Varvassi
Walter L M Russ
Washingtonian (1913)
HMNZS Wellington
USS Yancey
Yongala
Zenobia
Zealandia
Zingara
Cave divingsites
Blauhöhle
Chinhoyi Caves
Devil's Throat at Punta Sur
Engelbrecht Cave
Fossil Cave
Piccaninnie Ponds
Pluragrotta
Pollatoomary
Sistema Ox Bel Ha
Sistema Sac Actun
Sistema Dos Ojos
Sistema Nohoch Nah Chich
Freshwaterdives
Dutch Springs
Ewens Ponds
Little Blue Lake
Training sites
Capernwray Dive Centre
National Diving and Activity Centre
Stoney Cove
Open oceandiving
Blue-water diving
Black-water diving
Diving safety
Human factors in diving equipment design
Human factors in diving safety
Life-support system
Safety-critical system
Scuba diving fatalities
Divinghazards
List of diving hazards and precautions
Environmental
Current
Delta-P
Entanglement hazard
Overhead
Silt out
Wave action
Equipment
Freeflow
Use of breathing equipment in an underwater environment
Failure of diving equipment other than breathing apparatus
Single point of failure
Physiological
Cold shock response
Decompression
Nitrogen narcosis
Oxygen toxicity
Seasickness
Uncontrolled decompression
Diver behaviour and competence
Lack of competence
Overconfidence effect
Panic
Task loading
Trait anxiety
Willful violation
Consequences
Barotrauma
Decompression sickness
Drowning
Hypothermia
Hypoxia
Hypercapnia
Hyperthermia
Divingprocedures
Ascending and descending
Emergency ascent
Boat diving
Canoe and kayak diving
Buddy diving
buddy check
Decompression
Decompression practice
Pyle stop
Ratio decompression
Dive briefing
Dive log
Dive planning
Scuba gas planning
Diver communications
Diving hand signals
Diving line signals
Diver voice communications
Diver rescue
Diver training
Doing It Right
Drift diving
Gas blending for scuba diving
Night diving
Solo diving
Water safety
Riskmanagement
Checklist
Hazard identification and risk assessment
Hazard analysis
Job safety analysis
Risk assessment
Risk control
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Incident pit
Lockout–tagout
Permit To Work
Redundancy
Safety data sheet
Situation awareness
Diving team
Bellman
Chamber operator
Diver medical technician
Diver's attendant
Diving supervisor
Diving systems technician
Gas man
Life support technician
Stand-by diver
Equipmentsafety
Breathing gas quality
Testing and inspection of diving cylinders
Hydrostatic test
Sustained load cracking
Diving regulator
Breathing performance of regulators
Occupationalsafety andhealth
Approaches to safety
Job safety analysis
Risk assessment
Toolbox talk
Housekeeping
Association of Diving Contractors International
Code of practice
Contingency plan
Diving regulations
Emergency procedure
Emergency response plan
Evacuation plan
Hazardous Materials Identification System
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Administrative controls
Engineering controls
Hazard elimination
Hazard substitution
Personal protective equipment
International Marine Contractors Association
Occupational hazard
Biological hazard
Chemical hazard
Physical hazard
Psychosocial hazard
Occupational hygiene
Exposure assessment
Occupational exposure limit
Workplace health surveillance
Safety culture
Code of practice
Diving safety officer
Diving superintendent
Health and safety representative
Operations manual
Safety meeting
Standard operating procedure
Diving medicineDivingdisorders
List of signs and symptoms of diving disorders
Cramp
Motion sickness
Surfer's ear
Pressurerelated
Alternobaric vertigo
Barostriction
Barotrauma
Air embolism
Aerosinusitis
Barodontalgia
Dental barotrauma
Pulmonary barotrauma
Compression arthralgia
Decompression illness
Dysbarism
Oxygen
Freediving blackout
Hyperoxia
Hypoxia
Oxygen toxicity
Inert gases
Avascular necrosis
Decompression sickness
Isobaric counterdiffusion
Taravana
Dysbaric osteonecrosis
High-pressure nervous syndrome
Hydrogen narcosis
Nitrogen narcosis
Carbon dioxide
Hypercapnia
Hypocapnia
Breathing gascontaminants
Carbon monoxide poisoning
Immersionrelated
Asphyxia
Drowning
Hypothermia
Immersion diuresis
Instinctive drowning response
Laryngospasm
Salt water aspiration syndrome
Swimming-induced pulmonary edema
Treatment
Demand valve oxygen therapy
First aid
Hyperbaric medicine
Hyperbaric treatment schedules
In-water recompression
Oxygen therapy
Therapeutic recompression
Personnel
Diving Medical Examiner
Diving Medical Practitioner
Diving Medical Technician
Hyperbaric nursing
Screening
Atrial septal defect
Effects of drugs on fitness to dive
Fitness to dive
Psychological fitness to dive
ResearchResearchers indiving physiologyand medicine
Arthur J. Bachrach
Albert R. Behnke
Paul Bert
George F. Bond
Robert Boyle
Albert A. Bühlmann
John R. Clarke
Guybon Chesney Castell Damant
Kenneth William Donald
William Paul Fife
John Scott Haldane
Robert William Hamilton Jr.
Leonard Erskine Hill
Brian Andrew Hills
Felix Hoppe-Seyler
Christian J. Lambertsen
Simon Mitchell
Charles Momsen
John Rawlins R.N.
Charles Wesley Shilling
Edward D. Thalmann
Jacques Triger
Diving medicalresearchorganisations
Aerospace Medical Association
Divers Alert Network (DAN)
Diving Diseases Research Centre (DDRC)
Diving Medical Advisory Council (DMAC)
European Diving Technology Committee (EDTC)
European Underwater and Baromedical Society (EUBS)
National Board of Diving and Hyperbaric Medical Technology
Naval Submarine Medical Research Laboratory
Royal Australian Navy School of Underwater Medicine
Rubicon Foundation
South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society (SPUMS)
Southern African Underwater and Hyperbaric Medical Association (SAUHMA)
Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society (UHMS)
United States Navy Experimental Diving Unit (NEDU)
Law
Civil liability in recreational diving
Diving regulations
Duty of care
List of legislation regulating underwater diving
Investigation of diving accidents
UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage
History of underwater diving
History of decompression research and development
History of scuba diving
List of researchers in underwater diving
Timeline of diving technology
Underwater diving in popular culture
Archeologicalsites
SS Commodore
USS Monitor
Queen Anne's Revenge
Whydah Gally
Underwater artand artists
The Diver
Jason deCaires Taylor
Engineersand inventors
William Beebe
Georges Beuchat
John R. Clarke
Jacques Cousteau
Charles Anthony Deane
John Deane
Ted Eldred
Henry Fleuss
Émile Gagnan
Joseph-Martin Cabirol
Christian J. Lambertsen
Yves Le Prieur
John Lethbridge
Ernest William Moir
Joseph Salim Peress
Auguste Piccard
Willard Franklyn Searle
Augustus Siebe
Jacques Triger
Equipment
Aqua-Lung
RV Calypso
SP-350 Denise
Nikonos
Porpoise regulator
Standard diving dress
Vintage scuba
Military andcovert operations
Raid on Alexandria (1941)
Sinking of the Rainbow Warrior
Scientific projects
1992 cageless shark-diving expedition
Mission 31
IncidentsDive boat incidents
Sinking of MV Conception
Fire on MV Red Sea Aggressor
Diver rescues
Alpazat cave rescue
Tham Luang cave rescue
Early diving
John Day (carpenter)
Charles Spalding
Ebenezer Watson
Freediving fatalities
Loïc Leferme
Audrey Mestre
Nicholas Mevoli
Natalia Molchanova
Offshorediving incidents
Byford Dolphin diving bell accident
Drill Master diving accident
Star Canopus diving accident
Stena Seaspread diving accident
Venture One diving accident
Waage Drill II diving accident
Wildrake diving accident
Professionaldiving fatalities
Roger Baldwin
John Bennett
Victor F. Guiel Jr.
Craig M. Hoffman
Peter Henry Michael Holmes
Johnson Sea Link accident
Edwin Clayton Link
Gerard Anthony Prangley
Pier Skipness
Robert John Smyth
Albert D. Stover
Richard A. Walker
Lothar Michael Ward
Joachim Wendler
Bradley Westell
Arne Zetterström
Scuba divingfatalities
Ricardo Armbruster
Allan Bridge
David Bright
Berry L. Cannon
Cotton Coulson
Cláudio Coutinho
E. Yale Dawson
Deon Dreyer
Milan Dufek
Sheck Exley
Maurice Fargues
Fernando Garfella Palmer
Guy Garman
Steve Irwin
Jim Jones
Henry Way Kendall
Artur Kozłowski
Chris and Chrissy Rouse
Kirsty MacColl
Agnes Milowka
François de Roubaix
Dave Shaw
Wesley C. Skiles
Dewey Smith
Rob Stewart
Esbjörn Svensson
Josef Velek
PublicationsManuals
NOAA Diving Manual
U.S. Navy Diving Manual
Basic Cave Diving: A Blueprint for Survival
Underwater Handbook
Bennett and Elliott's physiology and medicine of diving
Encyclopedia of Recreational Diving
The new science of skin and scuba diving
Professional Diver's Handbook
Basic Scuba
Standards andCodes of Practice
Code of Practice for Scientific Diving (UNESCO)
DIN 7876
IMCA Code of Practice for Offshore Diving
ISO 24801 Recreational diving services — Requirements for the training of recreational scuba divers
General non-fiction
The Darkness Beckons
Goldfinder
The Last Dive
Shadow Divers
The Silent World: A Story of Undersea Discovery and Adventure
Research
List of Divers Alert Network publications
Dive guides
Training and registrationDivertraining
Competence and assessment
Competency-based learning
Refresher training
Skill assessment
Diver training standard
Diving instructor
Diving school
Occupational diver training
Commercial diver training
Military diver training
Public safety diver training
Scientific diver training
Recreational diver training
Introductory diving
Teaching method
Muscle memory
Overlearning
Stress exposure training
Skills
Combat sidestroke
Diver navigation
Diver trim
Ear clearing
Frenzel maneuver
Valsalva maneuver
Finning techniques
Scuba skills
Buddy breathing
Low impact diving
Diamond Reef System
Surface-supplied diving skills
Underwater searches
RecreationalscubacertificationlevelsCore diving skills
Advanced Open Water Diver
Autonomous diver
CMAS* scuba diver
CMAS** scuba diver
Introductory diving
Low Impact Diver
Master Scuba Diver
Open Water Diver
Supervised diver
Leadership skills
Dive leader
Divemaster
Diving instructor
Master Instructor
Specialist skills
Rescue Diver
Solo diver
Diver trainingcertificationand registrationorganisations
European Underwater Federation (EUF)
International Diving Regulators and Certifiers Forum (IDRCF)
International Diving Schools Association (IDSA)
International Marine Contractors Association (IMCA)
List of diver certification organizations
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Nautical Archaeology Society
Universal Referral Program
World Recreational Scuba Training Council (WRSTC)
Commercial divercertificationauthorities
Australian Diver Accreditation Scheme (ADAS)
Commercial diver registration in South Africa
Divers Institute of Technology
Health and Safety Executive (HSE)
Department of Employment and Labour
Commercial divingschools
Divers Academy International
Norwegian diver school
Free-divingcertificationagencies
AIDA International (AIDA)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Performance Freediving International (PI)
Scuba Schools International (SSI)
Recreational scubacertificationagencies
American Canadian Underwater Certifications (ACUC)
American Nitrox Divers International (ANDI)
Association nationale des moniteurs de plongée (ANMP)
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn (CFT)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas (FEDAS)
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins (FFESSM)
Federazione Italiana Attività Subacquee (FIAS)
Global Underwater Explorers (GUE)
International Association for Handicapped Divers (IAHD)
International Association of Nitrox and Technical Divers (IANTD)
International Diving Educators Association (IDEA)
Israeli Diving Federation (TIDF)
National Academy of Scuba Educators (NASE)
National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI)
Nederlandse Onderwatersport Bond (NOB)
Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)
Professional Diving Instructors Corporation (PDIC)
Sub-Aqua Association (SAA)
Scuba Diving International (SDI)
Scuba Educators International (SEI)
Scottish Sub Aqua Club (ScotSAC)
Scuba Schools International (SSI)
Türkiye Sualtı Sporları Federasyonu (TSSF)
United Diving Instructors (UDI)
YMCA SCUBA Program
Scientific divercertificationauthorities
American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS)
CMAS Scientific Committee
Technicalcertificationagencies
American Nitrox Divers International (ANDI)
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Diving Science and Technology (DSAT)
Federazione Italiana Attività Subacquee (FIAS)
International Association of Nitrox and Technical Divers (IANTD)
Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)
Professional Diving Instructors Corporation (PDIC)
Trimix Scuba Association (TSA)
Technical Extended Range (TXR)
Cavediving
Cave Divers Association of Australia (CDAA)
Cave Diving Group (CDG)
Global Underwater Explorers (GUE)
National Association for Cave Diving (NACD)
National Speleological Society#Cave Diving Group (CDG)
National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI)
Technical Diving International (TDI)
Underwater sportsSurface snorkeling
Finswimming
Snorkeling/breath-hold
Spearfishing
Underwater football
Underwater hockey
Australia
Turkey
Underwater rugby
Colombia
United States
Underwater target shooting
Breath-hold
Aquathlon
Apnoea finswimming
Freediving
Underwater ice hockey
Open Circuit Scuba
Immersion finswimming
Sport diving
Underwater cycling
Underwater orienteering
Underwater photography
Rebreather
Underwater photography
Sports governingorganisations and federations
International
AIDA International
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques)
National
AIDA Hellas
Australian Underwater Federation
British Freediving Association
British Octopush Association
British Underwater Sports Association
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins
South African Underwater Sports Federation
Türkiye Sualtı Sporları Federasyonu
Underwater Society of America)
Competitions
14th CMAS Underwater Photography World Championship
Underwater diversPioneersof diving
Eduard Admetlla i Lázaro
Aquanaut
James F. Cahill
Jacques Cousteau
Billy Deans
Hans Hass
Dick Rutkowski
Teseo Tesei
Arne Zetterström
Underwaterscientistsarchaeologists andenvironmentalists
Michael Arbuthnot
Robert Ballard
George Bass
Mensun Bound
Louis Boutan
Hugh Bradner
Cathy Church
Eugenie Clark
James P. Delgado
Sylvia Earle
John Christopher Fine
George R. Fischer
Anders Franzén
Honor Frost
Fernando Garfella Palmer
David Gibbins
Graham Jessop
Swietenia Puspa Lestari
Pilar Luna
Robert F. Marx
Anna Marguerite McCann
Innes McCartney
Charles T. Meide
David Moore
Mark M. Newell
Lyuba Ognenova-Marinova
John Peter Oleson
Mendel L. Peterson
Richard Pyle
William R. Royal
Margaret Rule
Gunter Schöbel
Stephanie Schwabe
Myriam Seco
E. Lee Spence
Robert Sténuit
Peter Throckmorton
Scuba recordholders
Pascal Bernabé
Jim Bowden
Mark Ellyatt
Sheck Exley
Nuno Gomes
Claudia Serpieri
Krzysztof Starnawski
Underwaterfilmmakersand presenters
Samir Alhafith
David Attenborough
Ramón Bravo
Jean-Michel Cousteau
Richie Kohler
Ivan Tors
Andrew Wight
Underwaterphotographers
Tamara Benitez
Georges Beuchat
Adrian Biddle
Jonathan Bird
Eric Cheng
Neville Coleman
Jacques Cousteau
John D. Craig
Ben Cropp
Bernard Delemotte
David Doubilet
John Christopher Fine
Dermot FitzGerald
Rodney Fox
Ric Frazier
Stephen Frink
Peter Gimbel
Monty Halls
Hans Hass
Henry Way Kendall
Rudie Kuiter
Joseph B. MacInnis
Luis Marden
Agnes Milowka
Noel Monkman
Steve Parish
Zale Parry
Pierre Petit
Leni Riefenstahl
Peter Scoones
Brian Skerry
Wesley C. Skiles
E. Lee Spence
Philippe Tailliez
Ron Taylor
Valerie Taylor
Albert Tillman
John Veltri
Stan Waterman
Michele Westmorland
John Ernest Williamson
J. Lamar Worzel
Underwaterexplorers
Caves
Graham Balcombe
Sheck Exley
Martyn Farr
Jochen Hasenmayer
Jill Heinerth
Jarrod Jablonski
William Hogarth Main
Tom Mount
Jack Sheppard
Bill Stone
Reefs
Wrecks
Leigh Bishop
John Chatterton
Clive Cussler
Bill Nagle
Aristotelis Zervoudis
Aquanauts
Andrew Abercromby
Joseph M. Acaba
Clayton Anderson
Richard R. Arnold
Serena Auñón-Chancellor
Michael Barratt (astronaut)
Robert L. Behnken
Randolph Bresnik
Timothy J. Broderick
Justin Brown
Berry L. Cannon
Scott Carpenter
Gregory Chamitoff
Steve Chappell
Catherine Coleman
Robin Cook
Craig B. Cooper
Fabien Cousteau
Philippe Cousteau
Timothy Creamer
Jonathan Dory
Pedro Duque
Sylvia Earle
Jeanette Epps
Sheck Exley
Albert Falco
Andrew J. Feustel
Michael Fincke
Satoshi Furukawa
Ronald J. Garan Jr.
Michael L. Gernhardt
Christopher E. Gerty
David Gruber
Chris Hadfield
Jeremy Hansen
José M. Hernández
John Herrington
Paul Hill
Akihiko Hoshide
Mark Hulsbeck
Emma Hwang
Norishige Kanai
Les Kaufman
Scott Kelly
Karen Kohanowich
Timothy Kopra
Dominic Landucci
Jon Lindbergh
Kjell N. Lindgren
Michael López-Alegría
Joseph B. MacInnis
Sandra Magnus
Thomas Marshburn
Matthias Maurer
K. Megan McArthur
Craig McKinley
Jessica Meir
Simone Melchior
Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger
Andreas Mogensen
Karen Nyberg
John D. Olivas
Takuya Onishi
Luca Parmitano
Nicholas Patrick
Tim Peake
Thomas Pesquet
Marc Reagan
Garrett Reisman
Kathleen Rubins
Dick Rutkowski
Tara Ruttley
David Saint-Jacques
Josef Schmid
Robert Sheats
Dewey Smith
Steve Squyres
Heidemarie Stefanyshyn-Piper
Robert Sténuit
Hervé Stevenin
Nicole Stott
James Talacek
Daniel M. Tani
Robert Thirsk
Bill Todd
Mark T. Vande Hei
Koichi Wakata
Rex J. Walheim
Shannon Walker
John Morgan Wells
Joachim Wendler
Douglas H. Wheelock
Peggy Whitson
Dafydd Williams
Jeffrey Williams
Sunita Williams
Gregory R. Wiseman
Kimiya Yui
Writers and journalists
Michael C. Barnette
Victor Berge
Philippe Diolé
Gary Gentile
Bret Gilliam
Bob Halstead
Trevor Jackson
Steve Lewis
John Mattera
Rescuers
Craig Challen
Richard Harris
Rick Stanton
John Volanthen
Frogmen
Lionel Crabb
Commercial salvors
Keith Jessop
Science of underwater divingDivingphysics
Breathing performance of regulators
Buoyancy
Archimedes' principle
Neutral buoyancy
Concentration
Diffusion
Molecular diffusion
Force
Oxygen fraction
Permeation
Psychrometric constant
Solubility
Henry's law
Saturation
Solution
Supersaturation
Surface tension
Hydrophobe
Surfactant
Temperature
Torricellian chamber
Underwater acoustics
Modulated ultrasound
Underwater vision
Snell's law
Underwater computer vision
Weight
Apparent weight
Gas laws
Amontons's law
Boyle's law
Charles's law
Combined gas law
Dalton's law
Gay-Lussac's law
Ideal gas law
Pressure
Absolute pressure
Ambient pressure
Atmospheric pressure
Gauge pressure
Hydrostatic pressure
Metre sea water
Partial pressure
Divingphysiology
Artificial gills
Cold shock response
Diving reflex
Equivalent narcotic depth
Lipid
Maximum operating depth
Metabolism
Physiological response to water immersion
Tissue
Underwater vision
Circulatorysystem
Blood shift
Patent foramen ovale
Perfusion
Pulmonary circulation
Systemic circulation
Decompressiontheory
Decompression models:
Bühlmann decompression algorithm
Haldane's decompression model
Reduced gradient bubble model
Thalmann algorithm
Thermodynamic model of decompression
Varying Permeability Model
Equivalent air depth
Equivalent narcotic depth
Oxygen window in diving decompression
Physiology of decompression
Respiration
Blood–air barrier
Breathing
CO₂ retention
Dead space
Gas exchange
Hypocapnia
Respiratory exchange ratio
Respiratory quotient
Respiratory system
Work of breathing
DivingenvironmentClassification
List of diving environments by type
Altitude diving
Benign water diving
Confined water diving
Deep diving
Inland diving
Inshore diving
Muck diving
Night diving
Open-water diving
Black-water diving
Blue-water diving
Penetration diving
Cave diving
Ice diving
Wreck diving
Recreational dive sites
Underwater environment
Impact
Environmental impact of recreational diving
Low impact diving
Environmentalfactors
Algal bloom
Currents:
Current
Longshore drift
Ocean current
Rip current
Tidal race
Undertow
Upwelling
Ekman transport
Halocline
Reef
Coral reef
Stratification
Thermocline
Tides
Turbidity
Wind wave
Breaking wave
Surf
Surge
Wave shoaling
Other
Bathysphere
Defense against swimmer incursions
Diver detection sonar
Offshore survey
Underwater domain awareness
Awards and events
Hans Hass Award
International Scuba Diving Hall of Fame
London Diving Chamber Dive Lectures
NOGI Awards
Deep-submergencevehicle
Aluminaut
DSV Alvin
American submarine NR-1
Bathyscaphe
Archimède
FNRS-2
FNRS-3
FNRS-4
Harmony class bathyscaphe
Sea Pole-class bathyscaphe
Trieste II
Deepsea Challenger
Ictineu 3
JAGO
Jiaolong
Konsul-class submersible
DSV Limiting Factor
Russian submarine Losharik
Mir
Nautile
Pisces-class deep submergence vehicle
DSV Sea Cliff
DSV Shinkai
DSV Shinkai 2000
DSV Shinkai 6500
DSV Turtle
DSV-5 Nemo
Deep-submergencerescue vehicle
LR5
LR7
MSM-1
Mystic-class deep-submergence rescue vehicle
DSRV-1 Mystic
DSRV-2 Avalon
NATO Submarine Rescue System
Priz-class deep-submergence rescue vehicle
Russian deep submergence rescue vehicle AS-28
Russian submarine AS-34
ASRV Remora
SRV-300
Submarine Rescue Diving Recompression System
Type 7103 DSRV
URF (Swedish Navy)
Specialinterestgroups
Artificial Reef Society of British Columbia
CMAS Europe
Coral Reef Alliance
Diving Equipment and Marketing Association
Divers Alert Network
Green Fins
Historical Diving Society
Karst Underwater Research
Nautical Archaeology Program
Nautical Archaeology Society
Naval Air Command Sub Aqua Club
Project AWARE
Reef Check
Reef Life Survey
Rubicon Foundation
Save Ontario Shipwrecks
SeaKeys
Sea Research Society
Society for Underwater Historical Research
Society for Underwater Technology
Underwater Archaeology Branch, Naval History &amp; Heritage Command
Submarine escapeand rescue
Escape trunk
International Submarine Escape and Rescue Liaison Office
McCann Rescue Chamber
Submarine Escape and Rescue system (Royal Swedish Navy)
Submarine escape training facility
Submarine Escape Training Facility (Australia)
Submarine rescue ship
Neutral buoyancyfacilities forAstronaut training
Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory
Neutral buoyancy pool
Neutral buoyancy simulation as a training aid
Neutral Buoyancy Simulator
Space Systems Laboratory
Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center
Other
Nautilus Productions
 Category
 Commons
Glossary
Indexes: dive sites
divers
diving
Outline
 Portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=SS_Gothenburg&amp;oldid=962973611"
		Categories: 1854 shipsShips built on the River ThamesMaritime incidents in April 1854Victorian-era merchant ships of the United KingdomVictorian-era merchant ships of AustraliaShipwrecks of QueenslandMaritime incidents in 1875History of Australia (1851–1900)Iron and steel steamships of AustraliaBarquentines of AustraliaShips built in MillwallGreat Barrier ReefNorth QueenslandWreck diving sitesHistory of Darwin, Northern TerritoryAustralian Shipwrecks with protected zoneHidden categories: CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse Australian English from January 2018All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishUse dmy dates from May 2012Coordinates on WikidataGood articles
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		DeutschفارسیFrançais
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 17 June 2020, at 01:48 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
