	Lost Coast
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the coastal region in California. For other uses, see Lost Coast (disambiguation).
Region of California in the United StatesLost CoastRegion of CaliforniaThe Lost Coast.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}Lost CoastLocation in CaliforniaCoordinates: 40°26′24″N 124°24′34″W﻿ / ﻿40.4401°N 124.4095°W﻿ / 40.4401; -124.4095Country United StatesState California
The Lost Coast is a mostly natural and undeveloped area of the California North Coast in Humboldt and Mendocino Counties, which includes the King Range. It was named the "Lost Coast" after the area experienced depopulation in the 1930s.[1] In addition, the steepness and related geotechnical challenges of the coastal mountains made this stretch of coastline too costly for state highway or county road builders to establish routes through the area, leaving it the most undeveloped and remote portion of the California coast.[2] Without any major highways, communities in the Lost Coast region such as Petrolia, Shelter Cove, and Whitethorn are isolated from the rest of California.
The region lies roughly between Rockport and Ferndale. At the south end, State Route 1, which runs very close along the coast for most of its length, suddenly turns inland at Rockport before merging with U.S. Route 101 at Leggett. At the north end, State Route 211 begins its journey at Ferndale, heading towards Highway 101 in Fernbridge. Section 511 of the California Streets and Highways Code still says that "Route 211 is from Route 1 near Rockport to Route 101 near Fernbridge", but it is unlikely that the portion south of Ferndale will be built. Most of the region's coastline is now part of either Sinkyone Wilderness State Park or King Range National Conservation Area. In 1912, biologist Dr. Bill Johnson explored and documented the geology and wildlife of the region now known as King Range National Conservation Area. Dr. Johnson spent most of his time at Randall Creek, which he nicknamed "Cumacie" due to the overbearing summer wind storms.[citation needed]
Contents
1 Geology and climate
2 Humboldt County
3 Mendocino County
4 Transportation
5 References
6 External links
Geology and climate[edit]
The Lost Coast consists of undivided Cretaceous marine metasedimentary and sedimentary rocks of the North American Plate steeply uplifted by Mendocino Triple Junction interactions with the Pacific Plate and Gorda Plate.  The Lost Coast includes Tertiary marine sedimentary formations north of the Mattole River and a portion of the Franciscan Assemblage called Point Delgada at Shelter Cove.[3]  The steepness of uplift has created a coastal ridge forming a drainage divide parallel to the coast.  The drainage pattern between Usal Creek and the Mattole River is a series of short streams with steep channel gradients.[4]
Like the surrounding coast, the Lost Coast experiences a wet season and a dry season. The wet season ranges from October to April. The King Range mountains collect significant moisture from storms coming in from the Pacific Ocean, making it one of the wettest sections of the California coastline. Local weather stations typically record over 100 in (2,500 mm) annually of rainfall, and during wet years, over 200 in (5,100 mm) can fall along the Lost Coast.  Snow can blanket the higher peaks after storms, but will melt quickly.
From May to September, the mountain areas are mostly warm and dry with temperatures reaching 80–90 °F in mid-summer, but the weather is still highly variable, with some days of fog and light rain.[5]
Humboldt County[edit]
  Coastline near Shelter Cove
Much of the land in the area is owned by the federal government, and in 1970, more than 60,000 acres (240 km2) were designated the King Range National Conservation Area.[2]
Because of the rugged and remote location, the small towns of Shelter Cove, Whitethorn and Petrolia are popular with those looking for quiet respite. The area is known for its black sand beaches, which get their color from dark colored sandstone called greywacke and an older compressed shale produced by tectonic activity of one continental and two oceanic plates meeting just offshore.[6]
Mendocino County[edit]
  Usal Creek on the Lost Coast in Mendocino County.
Early European settlers of this area began harvesting bark of the tanoak tree for tanning hides into leather.  Bark collectors formed the small community of Kenny around springs at the headwaters of the north fork of Usal Creek.  A wharf was built at Bear Harbor in 1884 for loading bark onto ships.  The Bear Harbor and Eel River Railroad incorporated in 1896 to connect the wharf to a sawmill being built on the South Fork Eel River at Andersonia, California.  The location of the railroad shops was named Moody for the proprietor (Louis Alton Moody) of a nearby hotel and saloon.  The community of Andersonia, Anderson Gulch, and the Anderson Cliffs of the Lost Coast are named for sawmill owner Henry Neff Anderson, who was killed in a construction accident in 1905.  Sawmill and railroad operation languished after Anderson's death, and the facilities were dismantled in 1921.[7]
Usal Redwood Company built a sawmill and 1,600-foot (490 m) wharf at the mouth of Usal Creek in 1889.  The company town of Usal was built around the mill and a railroad for transporting logs extended three miles up Usal Creek.  A fire in 1902 destroyed the sawmill, schoolhouse, warehouse, and county bridge over Usal Creek.[7]  The railroad was dismantled; but a few structures, including a hotel, survived until destroyed by fire in 1969.  Steep terrain and unfavorable coastal mooring conditions delayed timber harvesting of Jackass Creek drainage until internal combustion machinery was available for transport.  The company town of Wheeler, California, was built for logging operations from 1948 to 1959.  Sinkyone Wilderness State Park began acquisition of Lost Coast property in 1975.[8]
  Backpackers taking-in the views of California's coastline
Transportation[edit]
The geology of the Lost Coast makes it very difficult to establish routes through the area. State Route 1, California's Pacific Coast Highway, was originally planned to continue up the coast through the region. In 1984, admitting that such construction was not feasible, Caltrans re-routed the northern segment of Highway 1 from Rockport to Leggett and renumbered the portion that was built from Ferndale to Fernbridge as State Route 211.
Without any major highways or county thoroughfares in the area, the secluded communities within the Lost Coast are only accessible by land via small mountain roads. Mattole Road runs south from Ferndale to Petrolia, while Shelter Cove Rd. and Briceland Thorn Rd. form the main route connecting Shelter Cove with US 101 to the east.
Shelter Cove Airport in Shelter Cove is a small public airport with only one runway, making it possible to fly in when weather permits.  Communities right on the coast are also accessible by boat.
References[edit]
^ Gudde, Erwin G.; Bright, William (2004). California Place Names: The Origin and Etymology of Current Geographical Names (4th ed.). University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-24217-3..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b "King Range National Conservation Area". Bureau of Land Management. Archived from the original on 2012-07-02. Retrieved 2009-03-08.
^ Strand, Rudolph G. Geologic Map of California:Redding Sheet (1962) State of California Resources Agency
^ Jennings, Charles W. and Strand, Rudolph G. Geologic Map of California:Ukiah Sheet (1960) State of California Resources Agency
^ "King Range National Conservation Area: Weather". Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Department of the Interior. 2013-06-25. Archived from the original on 2014-05-22. Retrieved 2014-05-22.
^ Lost Coast Black Sands information sign at Black Sands beach head parking lot, northernmost set of two information panels near Shelter Cove, California, published by the Bureau of Land Management – Kings Range National Conservation Area, seen September 3, 2012
^ a b Carranco, Lynwood (1982). Redwood Lumber Industry. Golden West Books. pp. 208–209. ISBN 0-87095-084-3.
^ Sinkyone Wilderness State Park Preliminary Impact Plan and Draft EIR, California Department of Parks and Recreation, June 2006.
External links[edit]
GearJunkie – Video on Lost Coast trek
vte State of CaliforniaSacramento (capital)Topics
Culture
Food
Music
California sound
Sports
Demographics
Earthquakes
Economy
Agriculture
Education
Environment
Geography
Climate
Ecology
Flora
Fauna
Government
Capitol
Districts
Governor
Legislature
Supreme Court
Healthcare
History
Law
National Historic Landmarks
National Natural Landmarks
NRHP listings
Politics
Congressional delegations
Elections
People
Protected areas
State Parks
State Historic Landmarks
Symbols
Transportation
Water
Index of articles
Regions
Antelope Valley
Big Sur
California Coast Ranges
Cascade Range
Central California
Central Coast
Central Valley
Channel Islands
Coachella Valley
Coastal California
Conejo Valley
Cucamonga Valley
Death Valley
East Bay (SF Bay Area)
East County (SD)
Eastern California
Emerald Triangle
Gold Country
Great Basin
Greater San Bernardino
Inland Empire
Klamath Basin
Lake Tahoe
Greater Los Angeles
Los Angeles Basin
Lost Coast
Mojave Desert
Mountain Empire
North Bay (SF)
North Coast
North Coast (SD)
Northern California
Owens Valley
Oxnard Plain
Peninsular Ranges
Pomona Valley
Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta
Sacramento Valley
Salinas Valley
San Fernando Valley
San Francisco Bay Area
San Francisco Peninsula
San Gabriel Valley
San Joaquin Valley
Santa Clara Valley
Santa Clara River Valley
Santa Clarita Valley
Santa Ynez Valley
Shasta Cascade
Sierra Nevada
Silicon Valley
South Bay (LA)
South Bay (SD)
South Bay (SF)
South Coast
Southern Border Region
Southern California
Transverse Ranges
Tri-Valley
Victor Valley
Wine Country
Metro regions
Fresno–Madera
Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim
Sacramento–Roseville
Riverside–San Bernardino–Ontario
San Diego–Tijuana
San Jose–San Francisco–Oakland
Counties
Alameda
Alpine
Amador
Butte
Calaveras
Colusa
Contra Costa
Del Norte
El Dorado
Fresno
Glenn
Humboldt
Imperial
Inyo
Kern
Kings
Lake
Lassen
Los Angeles
Madera
Marin
Mariposa
Mendocino
Merced
Modoc
Mono
Monterey
Napa
Nevada
Orange
Placer
Plumas
Riverside
Sacramento
San Benito
San Bernardino
San Diego
San Francisco
San Joaquin
San Luis Obispo
San Mateo
Santa Barbara
Santa Clara
Santa Cruz
Shasta
Sierra
Siskiyou
Solano
Sonoma
Stanislaus
Sutter
Tehama
Trinity
Tulare
Tuolumne
Ventura
Yolo
Yuba
Most populouscities
Los Angeles
San Diego
San Jose
San Francisco
Fresno
Sacramento
Long Beach
Oakland
Bakersfield
Anaheim
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lost_Coast&amp;oldid=981201939"
		Categories: Regions of CaliforniaGeography of Humboldt County, CaliforniaGeography of Mendocino County, CaliforniaHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataPages using infobox settlement with bad settlement typeAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2019
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		AfrikaansDeutschNederlands日本語
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 30 September 2020, at 21:59 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
