	Bruno Lanteri
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Venerable Pio Bruno LanteriPortrait by Michele Baretta.Founder, Oblates of the Virgin MaryBorn(1759-05-12)12 May 1759Cuneo, PiedmontResidenceTorino, ItalyDied(1830-08-05)5 August 1830Pinerolo, ItalyMajor shrineShrine of the Sacred Heart in Pinerolo, Italy (interred)InfluencesSt. Ignatius of Loyola, St. Alphonsus of Liguori, St. Teresa of Avila, Fr. Nicolas Joseph Albert von DiessbachInfluencedSpiritual direction, parish missions, anti-Jansenistic moral theology, St. Joseph Cafasso, St. John Bosco, Bl. Pier Giorgio Frassati, St. Joseph CottolengoMajor worksRéflexions sur la sainteté et la doctrine du Bienheureux Liguori (Paris, 1823)[1]
Pio Bruno Pancrazio Lanteri, or simply Bruno Lanteri (12 May 1759 – 5 August 1830), was a Catholic priest and founder of the religious congregation of the Oblates of the Virgin Mary in the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia in northwestern Italy in the early 19th century. His spiritual life and work centered on the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius of Loyola.[2] He was also renowned for challenging Jansenism by distributing books and other publications that promoted the moral theology of St. Alphonsus Liguori, as well as establishing societies to continue this work.[1][3]
Lanteri's cause for canonization was begun in 1920 and he was declared Venerable by Pope Paul VI in 1965.[2][4]
Contents
1 Personal charism
1.1 Asceticism
1.2 Devotion to Mary
2 Good books
2.1 Spirituality of discernment
3 Contribution to moral theology
4 Writings
5 References
6 External links
Personal charism[edit]
Asceticism[edit]
Lanteri's life was marked by physical suffering from his pulmonary conditions that restricted his public speaking ability and his poor eyesight, because of which he often sought an assistant to read aloud to him. At age seventeen he sought the quiet and prayer of Carthusian monastic life and, although his entry was prevented by fragile health, he maintained this desire for silence and solitude throughout his life.[5] Witnesses of his life suggest that he reached the heights of mystical prayer during his years of house-arrest under Napoleon (1811–14).[6]
Devotion to Mary[edit]
At the death of Lanteri's mother in 1763, his father presented the four-year-old boy to a statue of Mary in their parish church, telling him, "She is your mother now." From this time, Lanteri maintained a deep and persistent devotion to Mary and communicated it to his colleagues and disciples, going so far as to declare that the religious institute he founded was principally the work of Mary and not his own.[7][8]
Good books[edit]
After meeting Nicolas Joseph Albert von Diessbach (25 February 1732 – 22 December 1798) in Torino in 1779,[9] Lanteri adopted Diessbach's passion for distributing good books as a remedy with both spiritual and human dimensions. Diessbach himself was converted from the Calvinism of his youth and the agnosticism of his military years by the chance reading of a good book that passionately expounded the truths of Catholicism.[8] With Lanteri he established a close-knit group of laypeople and clergy called the Amicizia Cristiana (Christian Friendship), who worked together to disseminate well-written, edifying books that inspired people to grow in their faith, contribute to society and cope with the unwelcome changes in their lives at the dawn of the French Revolution. The Amicizia maintained catalogues of such books and managed a covert lending library in support of this work. Lanteri also communicated this passion for good literature to the Oblates of the Virgin Mary.[10]
Spirituality of discernment[edit]
Diessbach, a former Jesuit (the Society of Jesus having been suppressed by Pope Clement XIV in 1773) also introduced Lanteri to the spiritual patrimony of St. Ignatius of Loyola, particularly his Spiritual Exercises. In this series of guided meditations through which one becomes more attentive to the movements of the heart (discernment) and the accompanying rules for adapting them to individuals' particular spiritual needs, Lanteri recognized a powerful instrument for pastoral ministry, especially for conversion.[11] He applied them continuously in his own life and prayer, recommended them to others, and established groups of people whom he trained to do the same. These groups eventually yielded to the formation of the Convitto Ecclesiastico (Priestly Residence)[12] and the Oblates of the Virgin Mary, whom he charged to continue this work.
Contribution to moral theology[edit]
Lanteri worked to turn the tide of Jansenism, which had become popular in Europe in the preceding centuries and retained many adherents in his time, though formally condemned by the Catholic Church. He himself held certain Jansenistic tenets at age 20, but through the influence of Jesuit Diessbach he encountered the moral theology of Alphonsus Liguori and definitively rejected Jansenism.[13]
Lanteri subsequently promoted Liguorian moral theology, which is based on mercy and hope in contrast with a condemning and rigoristic Jansenism, both personally as he counseled people and young priests and institutionally through various publications. Of particular note is his 1823 book, published anonymously in French, entitled Réflexions sur la sainteté et la doctrine du Bienheureux Liguori (Reflections on the Holiness and Teaching of Blessed Liguori). It was soon translated into Italian and then Spanish. In this prose work, Lanteri describes the character of Liguori and his doctrinal teaching, particularly his moral theology. The book includes an exhaustive catalogue of Liguori's written works, which was a substantial aid to the Vatican committee reviewing Alphonsus' life and works.[14]
Scholars such as Guerber have shown that Lanteri, together with Diessbach and their associates in Northern Italy and France, was in large part responsible for the widespread familiarity among clergy with the moral theology of Alphonsus Liguori and its usefulness to both combat Jansenism and accomplish their evangelical mission.[14] One persistent point of Lanteri's teaching was to always follow the magisterium of the Church; the writings of  Alphonsus Liguori had been officially declared "free of anything worthy of censure", and Lanteri always used this fact in support of his own promotion of Liguori's teaching.[15]
Writings[edit]
Lanteri, Bruno (1823). Réflexions sur la sainteté et la doctrine du Bienheureux Liguori [Reflections on the Holiness and Teaching of Blessed Liguori] (in French). Lyon: Perisse Frères..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
Lanteri, Bruno (1976).  Calliari, Paolo, O.M.V. (ed.). Carteggio del Venerabile Pio Bruno Lanteri (1759–1830) fondatore della Congregazione degli Oblati di Maria Vergine [Correspondence of the Venerable Pio Bruno Lanteri (1759–1830) founder of the Congregation of the Oblates of the Virgin Mary] (in Italian). Torino: Editrice Lanteriana. OCLC 3617374.
References[edit]
^ a b Bourdeau, François (1987). Alphonse de Liguori: pasteur et docteur. Paris: Editions Beauchesne. pp. 239, 386. ISBN 9782701011448.
^ a b Invernizzi, Marco. "Venerabile Pio Brunone Lanteri". Santi e Beati. Retrieved 5 December 2013.
^ Pappalardo, Francesco. "Sant'Alfonso Maria de' Liguori (1696–1787)". Retrieved 6 December 2013.
^ "Diarium Romanae Curiae: Sacra Congregazione dei Riti, p. 680" (PDF). Acta Apostolicae Sedis (1965). Typis Polyglottis Vaticanis. Retrieved 22 December 2013.
^ Gallagher, Timothy (2013). Begin Again: The Life and Spiritual Legacy of Bruno Lanteri. New York: Crossroad. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-8245-2579-8.
^ Lanteri, Bruno (1945).  Frutaz, Amato (ed.). Pinerolien. Beatificationis et canonizationis Servi Dei Pii Brunonis Lanteri fundatoris Congregationis Oblatorum M. V. (1830): Positio super introductione causae et super virtutibus ex officio compilata [On the beatification and canonization of the Servant of God Pio Bruno Lanteri founder of the Congregation of the Oblates of the Virgin Mary (1830): Position concerning the introduction of the cause and concerning the virtues compiled] (in Latin and Italian). Rome: Typis Polyglottis Vaticanis.
^ Gallagher pp. 173, 220.
^ a b Cristiani, Léon (1981). A Cross for Napoleon: The Life of Father Bruno Lanteri (1759–1830). Boston: St. Paul Editions. ISBN 9780819814050.
^ Gallagher p. 25.
^ Gallagher p. 173.
^ Lanteri, Bruno (1976).  Calliari, Paolo, O.M.V. (ed.). Carteggio del Venerabile Pio Bruno Lanteri (1759–1830) fondatore della Congregazione degli Oblati di Maria Vergine [Correspondence of the Venerable Pio Bruno Lanteri (1759–1830) founder of the Congregation of the Oblates of the Virgin Mary] (in Italian). Torino: Editrice Lanteriana. OCLC 3617374.
^ Gallagher p. 32.
^ Gallagher pp. 23–25.
^ a b Guerber, Jean (1973). "Le Ralliement du clergé Français a la morale Liguorienne" [The Rallying of the French Clergy to Liguorian Moral Theology]. Analecta Gregoriana (in French). Roma: Università Gregoriana Editrice. 193 (62): 116–121.
^ Gallagher p. 159.
External links[edit]
PioBrunoLanteri.org, an online archive of his writings
BrunoLanteri.org, the website promoting awareness of his process for canonization
vteSaints of the Catholic ChurchStages of canonization: Servant of God   →   Venerable   →   Blessed   →   SaintVirgin Mary
Mother of God (Theotokos)
Immaculate Conception
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Marian apparition
Titles of Mary
Joseph (husband)
Apostles
Andrew
Barnabas
Bartholomew
James of Alphaeus
James the Great
John
Jude
Matthew
Matthias
Paul
Peter
Philip
Simon
Thomas
Archangels
Gabriel
Michael
Raphael
Confessors
Anatolius
Athanasius the Confessor
Chariton the Confessor
Dominic
Edward the Confessor
Francis of Assisi
Francis Borgia
Louis Bertrand
Maximus the Confessor
Michael of Synnada
Paphnutius the Confessor
Paul I of Constantinople
Peter Claver
Salonius
Seraphim of Sarov
Theophanes the Confessor
Disciples
Apollos
Mary Magdalene
Priscilla and Aquila
Silvanus
Stephen
Timothy
Titus
Seventy disciples
Doctors
Gregory the Great
Ambrose
Augustine of Hippo
Jerome
John Chrysostom
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Athanasius of Alexandria
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
John of Damascus
Bede the Venerable
Ephrem the Syrian
Thomas Aquinas
Bonaventure
Anselm of Canterbury
Isidore of Seville
Peter Chrysologus
Leo the Great
Peter Damian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hilary of Poitiers
Alphonsus Liguori
Francis de Sales
Peter Canisius
John of the Cross
Robert Bellarmine
Albertus Magnus
Anthony of Padua
Lawrence of Brindisi
Teresa of Ávila
Catherine of Siena
Thérèse of Lisieux
John of Ávila
Hildegard of Bingen
Gregory of Narek
Evangelists
Matthew
Mark
Luke
John
ChurchFathers
Alexander of Alexandria
Alexander of Jerusalem
Ambrose of Milan
Anatolius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Augustine of Hippo
Caesarius of Arles
Caius
Cappadocian Fathers
Clement of Alexandria
Clement of Rome
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
Damasus I
Desert Fathers
Desert Mothers
Dionysius of Alexandria
Dionysius of Corinth
Dionysius
Ephrem the Syrian
Epiphanius of Salamis
Fulgentius of Ruspe
Gregory the Great
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Hilary of Poitiers
Hippolytus of Rome
Ignatius of Antioch
Irenaeus of Lyons
Isidore of Seville
Jerome of Stridonium
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Maximus the Confessor
Melito of Sardis
Quadratus of Athens
Papias of Hierapolis
Peter Chrysologus
Polycarp of Smyrna
Theophilus of Antioch
Victorinus of Pettau
Vincent of Lérins
Zephyrinus
Martyrs
Canadian Martyrs
Carthusian Martyrs
Child Martyrs of Tlaxcala
Dismas the Good Thief
Forty Martyrs of England and Wales
Four Crowned Martyrs
Gerard of Csanád
Great Martyr
The Holy Innocents
Irish Martyrs
Joan of Arc
John Fisher
Korean Martyrs
Lorenzo Ruiz
Lübeck martyrs
Luigi Versiglia
Martyrology
Martyrs of Albania
Martyrs of China
Martyrs of Japan
Martyrs of Laos
Martyrs of Natal
Martyrs of Otranto
Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
Maximilian Kolbe
Óscar Romero
Pedro Calungsod
Perpetua and Felicity
Peter Chanel
Pietro Parenzo
Philomena
Saints of the Cristero War
Stephen
Teresa Benedicta of the Cross
Thomas Becket
Thomas More
Three Martyrs of Chimbote
Uganda Martyrs
Vietnamese Martyrs
Valentine of Rome
Victor and Corona
Missionaries
Augustine of Canterbury
Boniface
Damien of Molokai
Francis Xavier
François de Laval
Gregory the Illuminator
Junípero Serra
Nico of Georgia
Patrick of Ireland
Remigius
Patriarchs
Adam
Abel
Abraham
Isaac
Jacob
Joseph
Joseph (father of Jesus)
David
Noah
Solomon
Matriarchs
Popes
Adeodatus I
Adeodatus II
Adrian III
Agapetus I
Agatho
Alexander I
Anacletus
Anastasius I
Anicetus
Anterus
Benedict II
Boniface I
Boniface IV
Caius
Callixtus I
Celestine I
Celestine V
Clement I
Cornelius
Damasus I
Dionysius
Eleuterus
Eugene I
Eusebius
Eutychian
Evaristus
Fabian
Felix I
Felix III
Felix IV
Gelasius I
Gregory I
Gregory II
Gregory III
Gregory VII
Hilarius
Hormisdas
Hyginus
Innocent I
John I
John XXIII
John Paul II
Julius I
Leo I
Leo II
Leo III
Leo IV
Leo IX
Linus
Lucius I
Marcellinus
Marcellus I
Mark
Martin I
Miltiades
Nicholas I
Paschal I
Paul I
Paul VI
Peter
Pius I
Pius V
Pius X
Pontian
Sergius I
Silverius
Simplicius
Siricius
Sixtus I
Sixtus II
Sixtus III
Soter
Stephen I
Stephen IV
Sylvester I
Symmachus
Telesphorus
Urban I
Victor I
Vitalian
Zachary
Zephyrinus
Zosimus
Prophets
Agabus
Amos
Anna
Baruch ben Neriah
David
Dalua
Elijah
Ezekiel
Habakkuk
Haggai
Hosea
Isaiah
Jeremiah
Job
Joel
John the Baptist
Jonah
Judas Barsabbas
Malachi
Melchizedek
Micah
Moses
Nahum
Obadiah
Samuel
Seven Maccabees and their mother
Simeon
Zechariah (prophet)
Zechariah (NT)
Zephaniah
Virgins
Agatha of Sicily
Agnes of Rome
Angela of the Cross
Æthelthryth
Bernadette Soubirous
Brigid of Kildare
Catherine Labouré
Catherine of Siena
Cecilia
Clare of Assisi
Eulalia of Mérida
Euphemia
Faustina Kowalska
Genevieve
Kateri Tekakwitha
Lucy of Syracuse
Maria Goretti
Teresa of Calcutta
Narcisa de Jesús
Rose of Lima
See also
Calendar of saints
Fourteen Holy Helpers
Military saints
Athleta Christi
Miles Christianus
Church Militant
Virtuous pagan
 Catholic Church portal
 Saints portal
Authority control 
BNF: cb12003889z (data)
GND: 123646413
ISNI: 0000 0001 1260 8580
LCCN: n80166781
NTA: 114491240
SUDOC: 028146417
VcBA: 495/123022
VIAF: 13222203
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n80166781
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bruno_Lanteri&amp;oldid=945723978"
		Categories: 1759 births1830 deaths18th-century Roman Catholic priests19th-century Roman Catholic priestsItalian Roman Catholic priestsFounders of Catholic religious communitiesHidden categories: CS1 Latin-language sources (la)CS1 Italian-language sources (it)CS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles containing Italian-language textWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		DeutschFrançaisItalianoPiemontèis
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 15 March 2020, at 19:27 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
