	John Chrysostom
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Church Father, Archbishop of Constantinople and Christian saint (c.347-407)
This article is about the Christian saint. For other uses, see Chrysostomos (disambiguation).
Saint John ChrysostomA Byzantine mosaic of John Chrysostomfrom the Hagia SophiaEast: Great Hierarch and Ecumenical Teacher West: Bishop and Doctor of the ChurchBornc. 347[1]AntiochDied14 September 407 (aged c. 58)[2]Comana in Pontus[3]Venerated inCatholic ChurchEastern Orthodox ChurchOriental OrthodoxyAssyrian Church of the EastAncient Church of the EastAnglican CommunionLutheranism[4]CanonizedPre-congregationalFeastByzantine Christianity
13 November (celebration transferred from 14 September)
27 January (Translation of Relics)
30 January (Three Holy Hierarchs)
Coptic Christianity
17 Hathor (Departure)
16 Thout (Translocation of Relics)
12 Pashons (Commemoration of Relocation of Relics from Comana to Constantinople AD 437)
Western Christianity13 September;  27 JanuaryAttributesVested as a Bishop, holding a Gospel Book or scroll, right hand raised in blessing. He is depicted as emaciated from fasting, with a high forehead, balding with dark hair and a small beard. Symbols: beehive, a white dove, a pan,[5][unreliable source?] chalice on a bible, pen and inkhorn[citation needed]PatronageConstantinople, education, epilepsy, lecturers, orators, preachers [5][unreliable source?]
Part of a series onCatholic philosophy  Aquinas, Scotus, and Ockham
Ethics
Cardinal virtues
Just price
Just war
Probabilism
Natural law
Personalism
Social teaching
Virtue ethics
Schools
Augustinianism
Cartesianism
Molinism
Occamism
Salamanca
Scholasticism
Neo-scholasticism
Scotism
Thomism
Philosophers
Ancient
Ambrose
Athanasius the Great
Augustine of Hippo
Clement of Alexandria
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Gregory of Nyssa
Irenaeus of Lyons
Jerome
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Justin Martyr
Origen
Paul the Apostle
Tertullian
Postclassical
Pseudo-Dionysius
Boethius
Isidore of Seville
Scotus Eriugena
Bede
Anselm of Canterbury
Hildegard of Bingen
Peter Abelard
Symeon the New Theologian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hugh of Saint Victor
Thomas Aquinas
Benedict of Nursia
Pope Gregory I
Peter Lombard
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Duns Scotus
Roger Bacon
Giles of Rome
James of Viterbo
Giambattista Vico
Gregory of Rimini
William of Ockham
Catherine of Siena
Paul of Venice
Modern
Baltasar Gracián
Erasmus of Rotterdam
Thomas Cajetan
Nicholas of Cusa
Luis de Molina
Teresa of Ávila
Thomas More
Francis de Sales
Francisco de Vitoria
Domingo de Soto
Martín de Azpilcueta
Tomás de Mercado
Antoine Arnauld
René Descartes
Robert Bellarmine
Ignacy Krasicki
Hugo Kołłątaj
François Fénelon
Alphonsus Liguori
Nicolas Malebranche
Blaise Pascal
Francisco Suárez
Giovanni Botero
Felicité de Lamennais
Antonio Rosmini
John Henry Newman
Contemporary
Pope Benedict XVI
Pope John Paul II
G. E. M. Anscombe
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Maurice Blondel
G. K. Chesterton
Yves Congar
Henri de Lubac
John Finnis
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Étienne Gilson
René Girard
Nicolás Gómez Dávila
Romano Guardini
John Haldane
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Bernard Lonergan
Marshall McLuhan
Alasdair MacIntyre
Gabriel Marcel
Jean-Luc Marion
Jacques Maritain
Emmanuel Mounier
Josef Pieper
Karl Rahner
Edith Stein
Charles Taylor
 Catholicism portal
 Philosophy portalvte
Part of a series on theEastern Orthodox ChurchMosaic of Christ Pantocrator, Hagia Sophia
Overview
Structure
Theology (History of theology)
Liturgy
Church history
Holy Mysteries
View of salvation
View of Mary
View of icons
Background
Crucifixion / Resurrection / Ascensionof Jesus
Christianity
Christian Church
Apostolic succession
Four Marks of the Church
Orthodoxy
Organization
Autocephaly
Patriarchate
Ecumenical Patriarch
Episcopal polity
Clergy
Bishops
Priests
Deacons
Monasticism
Degrees of monasticism
Autocephalous jurisdictionsAutocephalous Churches who are officially part of the communion:
Constantinople
Alexandria
Antioch
Jerusalem
Russia
Serbia
Romania
Bulgaria
Georgia
Cyprus
Greece
Poland
Albania
Czech Lands and Slovakia
Autocephaly recognized universally de facto,  by some Autocephalous Churches de jure.
America
Partially recognized autocephaly by Constantinople, the Church of Greece, and Alexandria. 
Ukraine
Noncanonical jurisdictions
Old Believers
Spiritual Christianity
True Orthodoxy
Catacomb Church
Old Calendarists
American Orthodox Catholic Church
American World Patriarchs
National:
Abkhazina
Belarus
Italy
Montenegro
North Macedonia
Turkey
Russian Orthodox Church in America
Syncretic Eastern Orthodox Churches:
Evangelical Orthodox
Western Orthodoxy
Celts
France
Gaul
Ecumenical councils
First Seven Ecumenical Councils:
First
Second
Third
Fourth
Fifth
Sixth
Seventh
Other ecumenical councils:
Eighth
Ninth
Other important councils:
Quinisext Council
Jassy
Moscow
Jerusalem
History
Church Fathers
Pentarchy
Byzantine Empire
Christianization of Bulgaria
Christianization of Kievan Rus'
Great Schism
Russia
Ottoman Empire
North America
Moscow–Constantinople schism
15th–16th c.
1996
2018
Theology
History of Eastern Orthodox theology
(20th century (Neo-Palamism))
Apophaticism
Chrismation
Contemplative prayer
Essence vs. Energies
Hesychasm
Holy Trinity
Hypostatic union
Icons
Metousiosis
Mystical theology
Nicene Creed
Nepsis
Oikonomia vs Akribeia
Ousia
Palamism
Philokalia
Phronema
Sin
Theosis
Theotokos
Differences from the Catholic Church
Opposition to the Filioque
Opposition to papal supremacy
Liturgy and worship
Divine Liturgy
Divine Services
Akathist
Apolytikion
Artos
Ectenia
Euchologion
Holy Water
Iconostasis
Jesus Prayer
Kontakion
Liturgical entrances
Liturgical fans
Lity
Memorial service
Memory Eternal
Omophorion
Orthodox bowing
Orthodox marriage
Praxis
Paraklesis
Paschal greeting
Paschal Homily
Paschal troparion
Prayer rope
Prosphora
Russian bell ringing
Semantron
Sign of the cross
Sticheron
Troparion
Vestments
Use of incense
Liturgical calendar
Paschal cycle
12 Great Feasts
Other feasts:
Feast of Orthodoxy
Intercession of the Theotokos
The four fasting periods:
Nativity Fast
Great Lent
Apostles' Fast
Dormition Fast
Major figures
Athanasius of Alexandria
Ephrem the Syrian
Basil of Caesarea
Cyril of Jerusalem
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
John Chrysostom
Cyril of Alexandria
John Climacus
Maximus the Confessor
John of Damascus
Theodore the Studite
Kassiani
Cyril and Methodius
Photios I of Constantinople
Gregory Palamas
Other topics
Architecture
Encyclical of the Eastern Patriarchs
Orthodox cross
Saint titles
Statistics by country
vte
John Chrysostom (/ˈkrɪsəstəm, krɪˈsɒstəm/; Greek: Ἰωάννης ὁ Χρυσόστομος; c. 347 – 14 September 407),[6] was an important Early Church Father who served as Archbishop of Constantinople. He is known for his  preaching and public speaking, his denunciation of abuse of authority[7] by both ecclesiastical and political leaders, the Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom, and his ascetic sensibilities. The epithet Χρυσόστομος (Chrysostomos, anglicized as Chrysostom) means "golden-mouthed" in Greek and denotes his celebrated eloquence.[2][8] Chrysostom was among the most prolific authors in the early Christian Church, exceeded only by Augustine of Hippo in the quantity of his surviving writings.[9]
He is honoured as a saint in the Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, Catholic, Anglican, and Lutheran churches, as well as in some others. The Eastern Orthodox, together with the Byzantine Catholics, hold him in special regard as one of the Three Holy Hierarchs (alongside Basil the Great and Gregory of Nazianzus). The feast days of John Chrysostom in the Eastern Orthodox Church are 13 November and 27 January. In the Roman Catholic Church he is recognized as a Doctor of the Church. Because the date of his death is occupied by the feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross (14 September), the General Roman Calendar celebrates him since 1970 on the previous day, 13 September; from the 13th century to 1969 it did so on 27 January, the anniversary of the translation of his body to Constantinople.[10] Of other Western churches, including Anglican provinces and Lutheran churches, some commemorate him on 13 September, others on 27 January. The Coptic Church also recognizes him as a saint (with feast days on 16 Thout and 17 Hathor).[11]
Contents
1 Biography
1.1 Early life and education
1.2 Diaconate and service in Antioch
1.3 Archbishop of Constantinople
1.4 Exile and death
1.5 Veneration and canonization
2 Writings
2.1 Homilies
2.1.1 Paschal Homily
2.1.2 General
2.1.3 Homilies against Jews and Judaizing Christians
2.1.4 Homily against homosexuality
2.2 Treatises
2.3 Liturgy
3 Legacy and influence
3.1 Influence on the Catechism of the Catholic Church and clergy
3.2 Music and literature
3.3 The legend of the penance of Saint John Chrysostom
3.4 Relics
4 See also
5 Notes
6 References
6.1 Collected works
7 Further reading
7.1 Bibliography
7.2 Primary sources
7.3 Secondary sources
8 External links
8.1 Works
8.2 Orthodox feast days
Biography[edit]
Early life and education[edit]
John was born in Antioch in 347[12][13] to Greek parents from Syria.[citation needed] Different scholars describe his mother Anthusa as a pagan[14] or as a Christian, and his father was a high-ranking military officer.[15] John's father died soon after his birth and he was raised by his mother. He was baptised in 368 or 373 and tonsured as a reader (one of the minor orders of the Church). It is sometimes said that he was bitten by a snake when he was ten years old, leading to him getting an infection from the bite.[16]
As a result of his mother's influential connections in the city, John began his education under the pagan teacher Libanius.[17] From Libanius, John acquired the skills for a career in rhetoric, as well as a love of the Greek language and literature.[18]
As he grew older, however, John became more deeply committed to Christianity and went on to study theology under Diodore of Tarsus, founder of the re-constituted School of Antioch. According to the Christian historian Sozomen, Libanius was supposed to have said on his deathbed that John would have been his successor "if the Christians had not taken him from us".[19]
John lived in extreme asceticism and became a hermit in about 375; he spent the next two years continually standing, scarcely sleeping, and committing the Bible to memory. As a consequence of these practices, his stomach and kidneys were permanently damaged and poor health forced him to return to Antioch.[20]
Diaconate and service in Antioch[edit]
Further information: Meletian schism
John was ordained as a deacon in 381 by Saint Meletius of Antioch who was not then in communion with Alexandria and Rome. After the death of Meletius, John separated himself from the followers of Meletius, without joining Paulinus, the rival of Meletius for the bishopric of Antioch. But after the death of Paulinus he was ordained a presbyter (priest) in 386 by Flavian, the successor of Paulinus.[21] He was destined later to bring about reconciliation between Flavian I of Antioch, Alexandria, and Rome, thus bringing those three sees into communion for the first time in nearly seventy years.[22]
In Antioch, over the course of twelve years (386–397), John gained popularity because of the eloquence of his public speaking at the Golden Church, Antioch's cathedral, especially his insightful expositions of Bible passages and moral teaching. The most valuable of his works from this period are his Homilies on various books of the Bible. He emphasised charitable giving and was concerned with the spiritual and temporal needs of the poor. He spoke against abuse of wealth and personal property:Do you wish to honour the body of Christ? Do not ignore him when he is naked. Do not pay him homage in the temple clad in silk, only then to neglect him outside where he is cold and ill-clad. He who said: "This is my body" is the same who said: "You saw me hungry and you gave me no food", and "Whatever you did to the least of my brothers you did also to me"... What good is it if the Eucharistic table is overloaded with golden chalices when your brother is dying of hunger? Start by satisfying his hunger and then with what is left you may adorn the altar as well.[23]
His straightforward understanding of the Scriptures – in contrast to the Alexandrian tendency towards allegorical interpretation – meant that the themes of his talks were practical, explaining the Bible's application to everyday life. Such straightforward preaching helped Chrysostom to garner popular support.[2]
One incident that happened during his service in Antioch illustrates the influence of his homilies. When Chrysostom arrived in Antioch, Flavian, the bishop of the city, had to intervene with Emperor Theodosius I on behalf of citizens who had gone on a rampage mutilating statues of the Emperor and his family. During the weeks of Lent in 387, John preached more than twenty homilies in which he entreated the people to see the error of their ways. These made a lasting impression on the general population of the city: many pagans converted to Christianity as a result of the homilies. The city was ultimately spared from severe consequences.[7]
Archbishop of Constantinople[edit]
See also: Origenist Crises
  John Chrysostom confronting Aelia Eudoxia, in a 19th-century painting by Jean-Paul Laurens
In the autumn of 397, John was appointed Archbishop of Constantinople, after having been nominated without his knowledge by the eunuch Eutropius. He had to leave Antioch in secret due to fears that the departure of such a popular figure would cause civil unrest.[24]
During his time as Archbishop he adamantly refused to host lavish social gatherings, which made him popular with the common people, but unpopular with wealthy citizens and the clergy. His reforms of the clergy were also unpopular. He told visiting regional preachers to return to the churches they were meant to be serving—without any payout.[25]. Also he founded a number of hospitals in Constantinople.[26][27]
His time in Constantinople was more tumultuous than his time in Antioch. Theophilus, the Patriarch of Alexandria, wanted to bring Constantinople under his sway and opposed John's appointment to Constantinople. Theophilus had disciplined four Egyptian monks (known as "the Tall Brothers") over their support of Origen's teachings. They fled to John and were welcomed by him. Theophilus therefore accused John of being too partial to the teaching of Origen. He made another enemy in Aelia Eudoxia, wife of Emperor Arcadius, who assumed that John's denunciations of extravagance in feminine dress were aimed at herself.[7] Eudoxia, Theophilus and other of his enemies held a synod in 403 (the Synod of the Oak) to charge John, in which his connection to Origen was used against him. It resulted in his deposition and banishment. He was called back by Arcadius almost immediately, as the people became "tumultuous" over his departure, even threatening to burn the imperial palace.[28][unreliable source?] There was an earthquake the night of his arrest, which Eudoxia took for a sign of God's anger, prompting her to ask Arcadius for John's reinstatement.[29][unreliable source?]
Peace was short-lived. A silver statue of Eudoxia was erected in the Augustaion, near his cathedral. John denounced the dedication ceremonies as pagan and spoke against the Empress in harsh terms: "Again Herodias raves; again she is troubled; she dances again; and again desires to receive John's head in a charger",[30][unreliable source?] an allusion to the events surrounding the death of John the Baptist. Once again he was banished, this time to the Caucasus in Abkhazia.[31][page needed]
Around 405, John began to lend moral and financial support to Christian monks who were enforcing the emperors' anti-Pagan laws, by destroying temples and shrines in Phoenicia and nearby regions.[32][unreliable source?]
Exile and death[edit]
The causes of John's exile are not clear, though Jennifer Barry suggests that they have to do with his connections to Arianism. Other historians, including Wendy Mayer and Geoffrey Dunn, have argued that "the surplus of evidence reveals a struggle between Johannite and anti-Johannite camps in Constantinople soon after John's departure and for a few years after his death".[33] Faced with exile, John Chrysostom wrote an appeal for help to three churchmen: Pope Innocent I, Venerius the Bishop of Milan, and the third to Chromatius, the Bishop of Aquileia.[34][35][36] In 1872, church historian William Stephens wrote:
The Patriarch of the Eastern Rome appeals to the great bishops of the West, as the champions of an ecclesiastical discipline which he confesses himself unable to enforce, or to see any prospect of establishing. No jealousy is entertained of the Patriarch of the Old Rome by the Patriarch of the New Rome. The interference of Innocent is courted, a certain primacy is accorded him, but at the same time he is not addressed as a supreme arbitrator; assistance and sympathy are solicited from him as from an elder brother, and two other prelates of Italy are joint recipients with him of the appeal.[37]
Pope Innocent I protested John's banishment from Constantinople to the town of Cucusus in Cappadocia, but to no avail. Innocent sent a delegation to intercede on behalf of John in 405. It was led by Gaudentius of Brescia; Gaudentius and his companions, two bishops, encountered many difficulties and never reached their goal of entering Constantinople.[38]
John wrote letters which still held great influence in Constantinople. As a result of this, he was further exiled from Cucusus (where he stayed from 404 to 407) to Pitiunt (Pityus) (in modern Georgia) where his tomb is a shrine for pilgrims. He never reached this destination, as he died at Comana Pontica on 14 September 407 during the journey. His last words are said to have been "δόξα τῷ θεῷ πάντων ἕνεκεν" (Glory be to God for all things).[29]
Veneration and canonization[edit]
  Byzantine 11th-century soapstone relief of John Chrysostom, Louvre
John came to be venerated as a saint soon after his death. Almost immediately after, an anonymous supporter of John (known as pseudo-Martyrius) wrote a funeral oration to reclaim John as a symbol of Christian orthodoxy.[33] But three decades later, some of his adherents in Constantinople remained in schism.[39] Saint Proclus, Patriarch of Constantinople (434–446), hoping to bring about the reconciliation of the Johannites, preached a homily praising his predecessor in the Church of Hagia Sophia. He said, "O John, your life was filled with sorrow, but your death was glorious. Your grave is blessed and reward is great, by the grace and mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ O graced one, having conquered the bounds of time and place! Love has conquered space, unforgetting memory has annihilated the limits, and place does not hinder the miracles of the saint."[40]
These homilies helped to mobilize public opinion, and the patriarch received permission from the emperor to return Chrysostom's relics to Constantinople, where they were enshrined in the Church of the Holy Apostles on 28 January 438. The Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates him as a "Great Ecumenical Teacher", with Basil the Great and Gregory the Theologian. These three saints, in addition to having their own individual commemorations throughout the year, are commemorated together on 30 January, a feast known as the Synaxis of the Three Hierarchs.[41]
In the Eastern Orthodox Church there are several feast days dedicated to him:
27 January, Translation of the relics of Saint John Chrysostom from Comana to Constantinople
30 January, Synaxis of the Three Great Hierarchs
14 September, Repose of Saint John Chrysostom
13 November, celebration was transferred from 14 September[42].
Writings[edit]
Homilies[edit]
Paschal Homily[edit]
  The Byzantine emperor Nicephorus III receives a book of homilies from John Chrysostom; the Archangel Michael stands on his left (11th-century illuminated manuscript).
The best known of his many homilies is an extremely brief one, the Paschal Homily (Hieratikon), which is read at the first service of Pascha (Easter), the midnight Orthros (Matins), in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
General[edit]
Chrysostom's extant homiletical works are vast, including many hundreds of exegetical homilies on both the New Testament (especially the works of Saint Paul) and the Old Testament (particularly on Genesis). Among his extant exegetical works are sixty-seven homilies on Genesis, fifty-nine on the Psalms, ninety on the Gospel of Matthew, eighty-eight on the Gospel of John, and fifty-five on the Acts of the Apostles.[43]
The homilies were written down by stenographers and subsequently circulated, revealing a style that tended to be direct and greatly personal, but formed by the rhetorical conventions of his time and place.[44] In general, his homiletical theology displays much characteristic of the Antiochian school (i.e., somewhat more literal in interpreting Biblical events), but he also uses a good deal of the allegorical interpretation more associated with the Alexandrian school.[43]
John's social and religious world was formed by the continuing and pervasive presence of paganism in the life of the city. One of his regular topics was the paganism in the culture of Constantinople, and in his homilies he thunders against popular pagan amusements: the theatre, horseraces, and the revelry surrounding holidays.[45] In particular, he criticizes Christians for taking part in such activities:
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}If you ask [Christians] who is Amos or Obadiah, how many apostles there were or prophets, they stand mute; but if you ask them about the horses or drivers, they answer with more solemnity than sophists or rhetors.[46]
One of the recurring features of John's homilies is his emphasis on care for the needy.[47] Echoing themes found in the Gospel of Matthew, he calls upon the rich to lay aside materialism in favor of helping the poor, often employing all of his rhetorical skills to shame wealthy people to abandon conspicuous consumption:Do you pay such honor to your excrements as to receive them into a silver chamber-pot when another man made in the image of God is perishing in the cold?[48]Along these lines, he wrote often about the need for almsgiving and its importance alongside fasting and prayer, e.g. “Prayer without almsgiving is unfruitful.”[49]
Homilies against Jews and Judaizing Christians[edit]
Main article: Adversus Judaeos
During his first two years as a presbyter in Antioch (386–387), John denounced Jews and Judaizing Christians in a series of eight homilies delivered to Christians in his congregation who were taking part in Jewish festivals and other Jewish observances.[50] It is disputed whether the main target were specifically Judaizers or Jews in general. His homilies were expressed in the conventional manner, utilizing the uncompromising rhetorical form known as the psogos (Greek: blame, censure).[citation needed]
One of the purposes of these homilies was to prevent Christians from participating in Jewish customs, and thus prevent the perceived erosion of Chrysostom's flock. In his homilies, John criticized those "Judaizing Christians", who were participating in Jewish festivals and taking part in other Jewish observances, such as the shabbat, submitted to circumcision and made pilgrimage to Jewish holy places.[51] There had been a revival of Jewish faith and tolerance in Antioch in 361, so Chrysostom's followers and the greater Christian community were in contact with Jews frequently, and Chrysostom was concerned that this interaction would draw Christians away from their faith identity.[52]
John claimed that synagogues were full of Christians, especially Christian women, on the shabbats and Jewish festivals, because they loved the solemnity of the Jewish liturgy and enjoyed listening to the shofar on Rosh Hashanah, and applauded famous preachers in accordance with the contemporary custom.[53] A more recent theory is that he instead tried to persuade Jewish Christians, who for centuries had kept connections with Jews and Judaism, to choose between Judaism and Christianity.[54] He promoted the proselytization of Jews, and many of these sermons highlighted their need to be “saved” from their corrupt faith. [55] He also refers to Jews as outsiders, illnesses, idolaters, lewd, and beast-like. [56]
Due to Chrysostom's stature in the Christian church, both locally and within the greater church hierarchy, his sermons were fairly successful in spreading anti-Jewish sentiment. This prompted the introduction of anti-Jewish legislation and social regulations, increasing the separation between the two communities. Despite being in a pluralistic world, Chrysostom and many other early Christians aimed to establish a community that was distinct from all others, and limited the presence of non-Christians.[citation needed]
Since there were only two other ordained individuals in Antioch who were legally recognized as able to preach Christianity, Chrysostom was able to reach a majority of the local population, especially with his skills in the art of orating. [57] He held great social and political power in Antioch, and was able to determine where one was or was not allowed to physically go; he frequently spoke about acts of violence taking place in Jewish spaces to dissuade Christians from going there. [58] 
In Greek the homilies are called Kata Ioudaiōn (Κατὰ Ἰουδαίων), which is translated as Adversus Judaeos in Latin and Against the Jews in English.[59] The original Benedictine editor of the homilies, Bernard de Montfaucon, gives the following footnote to the title: "A discourse against the Jews; but it was delivered against those who were Judaizing and keeping the fasts with them [the Jews]."[59]
According to Patristics scholars, opposition to any particular view during the late 4th century was conventionally expressed in a manner, utilizing the rhetorical form known as the psogos, whose literary conventions were to vilify opponents in an uncompromising manner; thus, it has been argued that to call Chrysostom an "anti-Semite" is to employ anachronistic terminology in a way incongruous with historical context and record.[60] This does not preclude assertions that  Chrysostom's theology was a form of Anti-Jewish supersessionism.[61]
Christian priest James Parkes called Chrysostom's  writing on Jews "the most horrible and violent denunciations of Judaism to be found in the writings of a Christian theologian".[62] According to historian William I. Brustein, his sermons against Jews gave further momentum to the idea that Jews are collectively responsible for the death of Jesus.[63] Steven Katz cites Chrysostom's homilies as “the decisive turn in the history of Christian anti-Judaism, a turn whose ultimate disfiguring consequence was enacted in the political antisemitism of Adolf Hitler.”[64]
Homily against homosexuality[edit]
According to Robert H. Allen, "Chrysostom's learning and eloquence spans and sums up a long age of ever-growing moral outrage, fear and loathing of homosexuality."[65] His most notable discourse in this regard is his fourth homily on Romans 1:26–27, where he argues as follows: All these affections then were vile, but chiefly the mad lust after males; for the soul is more the sufferer in sins, and more dishonored, than the body in diseases. ... [The men] have done an insult to nature itself. And a yet more disgraceful thing than these is it, when even the women seek after these intercourses, who ought to have more sense of shame than men.[66]
He says the active male victimizes the passive male in a way that leaves him more enduringly dishonored than even a victim of murder, since the victim of this act must "live under" the shame of the "insolency".[66] The victim of a murder, by contrast, carries no dishonor.  He asserts that punishment will be found in hell for such transgressors, and that women can be guilty of the sin as much as men. Chrysostom argues that the male passive partner has effectively renounced his manhood and become a woman – such an individual deserves to be "driven out and stoned". He attributes the cause to "luxury". "Do not, he means (Paul), because you have heard that they burned, suppose that the evil was only in desire. For the greater part of it came of their luxuriousness, which also kindled into flame their lust".[66]
According to scholar Michael Carden, Chrysostom was particularly influential in shaping early Christian thought that same-sex desire was an evil – altering the traditional interpretation of Sodom as a place of inhospitality, to one where the sexual transgressions of the Sodomites became paramount.[67] Allen describes the sermon as the "climax and consummation of homophobia in the late classical world".[68]
Treatises[edit]
Apart from his homilies, a number of John's other treatises have had a lasting influence. One such work is John's early treatise Against Those Who Oppose the Monastic Life, written while he was a deacon (sometime before 386), which was directed to parents, pagan as well as Christian, whose sons were contemplating a monastic vocation.[69] Chrysostom wrote that, already in his day, it was customary for Antiochenes to send their sons to be educated by monks.[70]
Another important treatise written by John is titled On the Priesthood (written 390/391, it contains in Book 1 an account of his early years and a defence of his flight from ordination by Bishop Meletios of Antioch, and then proceeds in later books to expound on his exalted understanding of the priesthood). Two other notable books by John are Instructions to Catechumens and On the Incomprehensibility of the Divine Nature.[71] In addition, he wrote a series of letters to the deaconess Olympias, of which seventeen are extant.[72]
Liturgy[edit]
Beyond his preaching, the other lasting legacy of John is his influence on Christian liturgy. Two of his writings are particularly notable. He harmonized the liturgical life of the Church by revising the prayers and rubrics of the Divine Liturgy, or celebration of the Holy Eucharist.  To this day, Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches of the Byzantine Rite typically celebrate the Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom as the normal Eucharistic liturgy, although his exact connection with it remains a matter of debate among experts.[73]
Legacy and influence[edit]
  A sculpture of John Chrysostom in Saint Patrick's Cathedral, New York City
During a time when city clergy were subject to criticism for their high lifestyle, John was determined to reform his clergy in Constantinople. These efforts were met with resistance and limited success. He was an excellent preacher[73] whose homilies and writings are still studied and quoted. As a theologian, he has been and continues to be very important in Eastern Christianity, and is generally considered among the Three Holy Hierarchs of the Greek Church, but has been less important to Western Christianity. His writings have survived to the present day more so than any of the other Greek Fathers.[2]
Influence on the Catechism of the Catholic Church and clergy[edit]
John's influence on church teachings is interwoven throughout the current Catechism of the Catholic Church (revised 1992).[citation needed] The Catechism cites him in eighteen sections, particularly his reflections on the purpose of prayer and the meaning of the Lord's Prayer:[citation needed]Consider how [Jesus Christ] teaches us to be humble, by making us see that our virtue does not depend on our work alone but on grace from on high. He commands each of the faithful who prays to do so universally, for the whole world. For he did not say "thy will be done in me or in us", but "on earth", the whole earth, so that error may be banished from it, truth take root in it, all vice be destroyed on it, virtue flourish on it, and earth no longer differ from heaven.[74]
Christian clerics, such as R. S. Storr, refer to him as "one of the most eloquent preachers who ever since apostolic times have brought to men the divine tidings of truth and love", and the 19th-century John Henry Newman described John as a "bright, cheerful, gentle soul; a sensitive heart".[75][unreliable source?]
Music and literature[edit]
John's liturgical legacy has inspired several musical compositions. Particularly noteworthy[citation needed] are Sergei Rachmaninoff's Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, Op. 31, composed in 1910,[76] one of his two major unaccompanied choral works; Pyotr Tchaikovsky's Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, Op. 41; and Ukrainian composer Kyrylo Stetsenko's Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. Arvo Pärt's Litany sets Chrysostom's twenty-four prayers, one for each hour of the day,[77] for soli, mixed choir and orchestra. And the compositions of Alexander Grechaninovs "Liturgy of Johannes Chrysostomos No. 1, Op. 13 (1897)", "Liturgy of Johannes Chrysostomos No. 2, Op.29 (1902)", "Liturgia Domestica (Liturgy Johannes Chrysostomos No. 3), Op. 79 (1917)" and "Liturgy of Johannes Chrysostomos No. 4, Op. 177 (1943)" are noteworthy.[citation needed]
James Joyce's novel Ulysses includes a character named Mulligan who brings 'Chrysostomos' into another character (Stephen Dedalus)'s mind because Mulligan's gold-stopped teeth and his gift of the gab earn him the title which St. John Chrysostom's preaching earned him, 'golden-mouthed':[78] "[Mulligan] peered sideways up and gave a long low whistle of call, then paused awhile in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here and there with gold points. Chrysostomos."[79]
The legend of the penance of Saint John Chrysostom[edit]
  The Penance of St. John Chrysostom. Engraving by Lucas Cranach the Elder, 1509. The saint can be seen in the background on all fours, whilst the princess and their baby dominate the foreground.
A late medieval legend (not included in the Golden Legend) relates that, when John Chrysostom was a hermit in the desert, he was approached by a royal princess in distress.[citation needed][80] The Saint, thinking she was a demon, at first refused to help her, but the princess convinced him that she was a Christian and would be devoured by wild beasts if she were not allowed to enter his cave. He therefore admitted her, carefully dividing the cave in two parts, one for each of them. In spite of these precautions, the sin of fornication was committed, and in an attempt to hide it the distraught saint took the princess and threw her over a precipice. He then went to Rome to beg absolution, which was refused. Realising the appalling nature of his crimes, Chrysostom made a vow that he would never rise from the ground until his sins were expiated, and for years he lived like a beast, crawling on all fours and feeding on wild grasses and roots. Subsequently, the princess reappeared, alive, and suckling the saint's baby, who miraculously pronounced his sins forgiven. This last scene was very popular from the late 15th century onwards as a subject for engravers and artists.[citation needed] The theme was depicted by Albrecht Dürer around 1496,[81] Hans Sebald Beham and Lucas Cranach the Elder, among others. Martin Luther mocked this same legend in his Die Lügend von S. Johanne Chrysostomo (1537).[82][83] The legend was recorded in Croatia in the 16th century.[84][non-primary source needed]
Relics[edit]
  The return of the relics of Saint John Chrysostom to the Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople
John Chrysostom died in the city of Comana in the year 407 on his way to his place of exile. There his relics remained until 438 when, thirty years after his death, they were transferred to Constantinople during the reign of the Empress Eudoxia's son, the Emperor Theodosius II (408–450), under the guidance of John's disciple, St. Proclus, who by that time had become Archbishop of Constantinople (434–447).[citation needed]
Most of John's relics were looted from Constantinople by Crusaders in 1204 and taken to Rome, but some of his bones were returned to the Orthodox Church on 27 November 2004 by Pope John Paul II.[85][86][87]. Since 2004 the relics have been enshrined in the Church of St. George, Istanbul.[88]
The skull, however, having been kept at the monastery at Vatopedi  on Mount Athos in northern Greece, was not among the relics that were taken by the crusaders in the 13th century. In 1655, at the request of Tsar Alexei Mikhailovich, the skull was taken to Russia, for which the monastery was compensated in the sum of 2000 rubles. In 1693, having received a request from the Vatopedi Monastery for the return of Saint John's skull, Tsar Peter the Great ordered that the skull remain in Russia but that the monastery was to be paid 500 rubles every four years. The Russian state archives document these payments up until 1735. The skull was kept at the Moscow Kremlin, in the Cathedral of the Dormition of the Mother of God, until 1920, when it was confiscated by the Soviets and placed in the Museum of Silver Antiquities. In 1988, in connection with the 1000th Anniversary of the Baptism of Russia, the head, along with other important relics, was returned to the Russian Orthodox Church and kept at the Epiphany Cathedral, until being moved to the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour after its restoration.[citation needed]
Today, the monastery at Vatopedi posits a rival claim to possessing the skull of John Chrysostom, and there a skull is venerated by pilgrims to the monastery as that of Saint John. Two sites in Italy also claim to have the saint's skull: the Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence and the Dal Pozzo chapel in Pisa. The right hand of Saint John[89][unreliable source?] is preserved on Mount Athos, and numerous smaller relics are scattered throughout the world.[90]
See also[edit]
Saint John Chrysostom, patron saint archive
Notes[edit]
^ The exact date of John's birth is in question, and dates between 344 and 349 are given. In the most recent general biography of Chrysostom, eminent patristics scholar JND Kelly, after a review of the evidence and literature, favours 349 as the date that best fits all available evidence, in agreement with Robert Carter. See Kelly, Golden Mouth: The Story of John Chrysostom: Ascetic, Preacher, Bishop, (Grand Rapids: Baker Academic 1998: originally published Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1995), p. 4 fn. 12; esp. Appendix B passim. For a discussion of alternatives presented in the literature, see Robert Carter, "The Chronology of St. John Chrysostom's Early Life", in Traditio 18:357–64 (1962); Jean Dumortier, "La valeur historique du dialogue de Palladius et la chronologie de saint Jean Chrysostome", in Mélanges de science religieuse, 8:51–56 (1951). Carter dates his birth to the year 349. See also Robert Louis Wilken, John Chrysostom and the Jews: Rhetoric and Reality in the Late Fourth Century, (Berkeley: University of California Press: 1983), p. 5.
^ a b c d "St John Chrysostom" profile, Catholic Encyclopedia (see here); retrieved 20 March 2007.
^ "CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: St. John Chrysostom". www.newadvent.org..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Notable Lutheran Saints". Resurrectionpeople.org.
^ a b "Catholic-forum.com". Archived from the original on 17 January 2008.
^ The exact date of John's birth is in question, and dates between 344 and 349 are often given, and limits set at 340 and 350 (Kelly 296). In the most recent general biography of Chrysostom, eminent patristics scholar JND Kelly, after a review of the evidence and literature, favours 349 as the date that best fits all available evidence, in agreement with Robert Carter. See Kelly, Golden Mouth: The Story of John Chrysostom: Ascetic, Preacher, Bishop, Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 1998: originally published Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1995), p. 4 fn. 12; esp. 296–298 passim. For a concurring analysis which is followed in most recent reconstructions of the early life of Chrysostomos, see Robert Carter, "The Chronology of St. John Chrysostom's Early Life", in Traditio 18:357–64 (1962). For a discussion of alternatives, often in older literature, see especially G. Ettlinger, Traditio 16 (1960), pp. 373–80, Jean Dumortier, "La valeur historique du dialogue de Palladius et la chronologie de saint Jean Chrysostome", Mélanges de science religieuse, 8:51–56 (1951)
^ a b c Robert Wilken, "John Chrysostom" profile, Encyclopedia of Early Christianity (ed. Everett Ferguson), New York: Garland Publishing, 1997
^ Pope Vigilius, Constitution of Pope Vigilius, pg. 553
^ Writings of Chrysostom in the Christian Classics Ethereal Library edition of the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers:. Six full volumes by Chysostom, compared to eight full volumes for Augustine.
^ "Calendarium Romanum" (in Latin). Typis Polyglottis Vaticanis. 1969. pp. 102–103. Retrieved 8 August 2019.
^ Coptic synaxarium Archived 27 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ Donald Attwater. "St. John Chrysostom – archbishop of Constantinople". Encyclopedia Britannica Online. Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 11 August 2020.
^ "Saint John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople". The Orthodox Faith – Lives of the Saints. The Orthodox Church in America. Retrieved 11 August 2020.
^ "John Chrysostom", Encyclopaedia Judaica
^ The Encyclopaedia Judaica describes Chrysostom's mother as a pagan. In Pauline Allen and Wendy Mayer, John Chrysostom (pg. 5), she is described as a Christian.
^ Wilken (p. 7) prefers 368 for the date of Chrysostom's baptism, the Encyclopaedia Judaica prefers the later date of 373.
^ Cameron, Averil (1998) "Education and literary culture" in Cameron, A. and Garnsey, P. (eds.) The Cambridge ancient history: Vol. XIII The late empire, A.D. 337–425. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pg. 668.
^ Wilken, pg. 5.
^ Sozomen (1995) [1890]. "Ecclesiastical History of Sozomen, Book VIII, Chapter II: Education, Training, Conduct, and Wisdom of the Great John Chrysostom".  In Schaff, Philip; Wace, Henry (eds.). Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Volume II: Socrates and Sozomenus Ecclesiastical Histories (reprint ed.). Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers. p. 399. ISBN 1-56563-118-8. Retrieved 29 March 2007.
^ Allen, Pauline &amp; Wendy Mayer, John Chrysostom, Routledge: 2000, pg. 6
^ Scholasticus, Socrates. Ecclesiastical History, VI, 3
^ Philip Hughes, History of the Church, Sheed and Ward, 1934, vol I, pp. 231–232.
^ Chrysostom, John. In Evangelium S. Matthaei, homily 50:3–4, pp 58, 508–509
^ Allen and Mayer, 2000, pg. 6
^ Farmer, David H. The Oxford Dictionary of the Saints (2nd ed.), New York: Oxford University Press, 1987, pg. 232
^ Andrew Todd Crislip. From Monastery to Hospital: Christian Monasticism &amp; the Transformation of Health Care in Late Antiquity, University of Michigan Press, 2005, p. 103
^ Baluffi, Cajetan. The Charity of the Church (trans. Denis Gargan), Dublin: M H Gill and Son, 1885, p. 39Schmidt, Alvin J. Under the Influence: How Christianity Transformed Civilization, Grand Rapids, MI, Zondervan, 2001, p. 157
^ Socrates Scholasticus (1995) [1890]. "Book VI, Chapter XVI: Sedition on Account of John Chrysostom's Banishment".  In Schaff, Philip; Wace, Henry (eds.). Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Volume II: Socrates and Sozomenus Ecclesiastical Histories (reprint ed.). Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers. p. 149. ISBN 1-56563-118-8. Retrieved 29 March 2007.
^ a b "St John Chrysostom the Archbishop of Constantinople". Orthodox Church in America. Retrieved 29 March 2007.
^ Socrates Scholasticus, op cit "Chapter XVIII: Of Eudoxia's Silver Statue", p. 150.
^ "John Chrysostom" profile, The Oxford Dictionary of Church History (ed. Jerald C. Brauer), Philadelphia: Westminster Press (1971)
^ A chronicle of the last pagans, pg. 75
^ a b Barry, Jennifer (2016). "Diagnosing Heresy: Ps.-Martyrius's Funerary Speech for John Chrysostom". Journal of Early Christian Studies. 24 (3). Retrieved 17 July 2017.
^ (Ep. CLV: PG LII, 702)
^ Vatican Library webpage; accessed 20 June 2015.
^ Appeal to the Pope, earlychurchtexts.com; accessed 20 June 2015.
^ Stephens, W.R.W., (2005) “Saint Chrysostom: His Life and Times”, Elibron Classics, pp. 349–50
^ St Gaudentius profile, newadvent.org; accessed 20 June 2015.
^ Holum, K.G., (1982) "Theodosian Empresses", (University of California Press), pg. 184
^ The Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. Primedia E-launch LLC. 1980. pp. 8–9. ISBN 978-1-61979-382-8.
^ "Three Holy Hierarchs: St Basil the Great, St Gregory the Theologian, and St John Chrysostom". Orthodox Christian Network. 27 January 2015. Retrieved 17 July 2017.
^ St. John Chrysostom. Orthodox Calendar.
^ a b "John Chrysostom" profile, Catholic Encyclopaedia Online, newadvent.org; retrieved 20 March 2007.
^ Yohanan (Hans) Lewy, "John Chrysostom" in Encyclopaedia Judaica (ed. Cecil Roth), Keter Publishing House: 1997; ISBN 965-07-0665-8
^ Wilken, p. 30.
^ Chrysostom, John (quoted in Wilken, p. 30)
^ Liebeschuetz, J. H. W. G. Barbarians and Bishops: Army, Church, and State in the age of Arcadius and Chrysostom, Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1990, pp. 175–176
^ Chrysostom, John (quoted in Liebeschuetz, p. 176)
^ Hopko, Thomas (1983). "32 - When You Give Alms". The Lenten Spring. St. Vladimir’s Seminary Press. pp. 128–29. ISBN 978-0-88141-014-3.
^ See Wilken, p. xv, and also "John Chrysostom" in Encyclopaedia Judaica
^ Wilken, p. xv.
^ John Chrysostom, Discourses Against Judaizing Christians, trans. Paul W Harkins, 2010, XXIX
^ "John Chrysostom" profile, Encyclopaedia Judaica.
^ Stark, Rodney. The Rise of Christianity. How the Obscure, Marginal Jesus Movement Became the Dominant Religious Force in the Western World in a Few Centuries, Princeton University Press: 1997, pp. 66–67
^ John Chrysostom, Discourses Against Judaizing Christians, trans. Paul W Harkins, 2010, XXVI
^ Chrysostom, 51
^ Christine C. Shepardson, Controlling Contested Places: Late Antique Antioch and the Spatial Politics of Religious Controversy (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2014), 93)
^ Shepardson, 92
^ a b Chrysostom, John. "Discourses Against Judaizing Christians", Fathers of the Church (vol. 68), Paul W. Harkins (trans.), Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1979, pp. x, xxxi
^ Wilken, Robert Louis. John Chrysostom and the Jews: Rhetoric and Reality in the Late Fourth Century (1983), University of California, Berkeley Press; ISBN 978-0-520-04757-0, pp. 124–126.; retrieved 25 October 2011.
^ Fonrobert, Charlotte. "Jewish Christians, Judaizers, and Anti-Judaism", Late Ancient Christianity (2010), Minneapolis, MN: Fortress Press, pp. 234–254
^ Parkes, James (1969). Prelude to Dialogue. London. p. 153.
^ Brustein, William I. (2003). Roots of Hate: Anti-Semitism in Europe before the Holocaust. Cambridge University Press. p. 52. ISBN 0-521-77308-3.
^ Katz, Steven (1999). Ideology, State Power, and Mass Murder/Genocide", Lessons and Legacies: The Meaning of the Holocaust in a Changing World. Northwestern University Press.
^ Robert H. Allen, The Classical Origins of Modern Homophobia, (2006) p.187
^ a b c "John Chrysostom: Homilies on Romans: Homily IV". en.wikisource.org.
^ Michael Carden, Sodomy: A history of a Christian Biblical Myth, Routledge, 2004, p32
^ Robert H. Allen, The Classical Origins of Modern Homophobia, (2006) p.187
^ Wilken, p. 26.
^ Woods, Thomas. How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization, Washington, D.C.: Regenery, 2005; ISBN 0-89526-038-7, pg. 44
^ On the Priesthood was well-known already during Chrysostom's lifetime, and is cited by Jerome in 392 in his De Viris Illustribus, chapter 129
^ Kirsch, Johann Peter (1911). "St. Olympias". Catholic Encyclopedia. Robert Appleton Company. Retrieved 17 November 2009.
^ a b Parry (2001), pp. 268–269
^ Chrysostom, John. Hom. in Mt. 19,5: pp. 57, 280.
^ Newman, John Cardinal, "St. Chrysostom" profile, The Newman Reader, Rambler: 1859 available online (see esp. chapter 2); retrieved 20 March 2007.
^ "The Divine Liturgy of St John Chrysostom, Op 31". Hyperion Records, Ltd.
^ "Litany". www.arvopart.org. Archived from the original on 19 May 2014. Retrieved 15 April 2014.
^ Blaimes (1996, 3).
^ Joyce (1961, 3).
^ A variant relates that this was Genevieve of Brabant, wife of Count Siegfried of Treves, who was unjustly accused of infidelity and sentenced to death. She was led into the forest to be put to death, but her executioners relented and there abandoned her.[citation needed]
^ http://www.codexcoop.it, Codex, Pavia (IT) -. "La penitenza di San Giovanni Crisostomo, Dürer, Albrecht – Stampe e incisioni – Lombardia Beni Culturali". www.lombardiabeniculturali.it.
^ Available online
^ Fenelli, Laura. "From the Vita Pauli to the Legenda Breviarii: Real and imaginary animals as a Guide to the Hermit in the Desert", Animals and Otherness in the Middle Ages: Perspectives Across Disciplines, Oxford, Archaeopress (BAR International Series 2500), 2013, p. 41, fn. 40
^ "Legend of St John Chrysostom", Zgombic Miscellany. 16th-century Glagolitic manuscript [in Croatian Church Slavonic]. Zagreb, Archive of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Shelf-mark VII 30. pp. 67–75.
^ Pope John Paul II. "Letter to the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, His Holiness Bartholomew I". Retrieved 30 March 2007.
^ http://www.christianunity.va/content/unitacristiani/en/dialoghi/sezione-orientale/chiese-ortodosse-di-tradizione-bizantina/relazioni-bilaterali/patriarcato-ecumenico/altri-documenti-ed-eventi/2004-celebrazione-ecumenica-reliquie-ss-gregorio-nazianzo-e-giov.html
^ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Eztvp0CN4Q
^ Relics of St. John Chrysostom at the Church of St. George, Istanbul, cbc.ca; retrieved 13 September 2010.
^ "OrthodoxPhotos.com". www.orthodoxphotos.com. Archived from the original on 27 February 2008.
^ "Thousands queue outside Cyprus church after reports of miracle-working relic". International Herald Tribune. 13 November 2007. Retrieved 20 June 2015.
References[edit]
.mw-parser-output .refbegin{font-size:90%;margin-bottom:0.5em}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul{list-style-type:none;margin-left:0}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul>li,.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>dl>dd{margin-left:0;padding-left:3.2em;text-indent:-3.2em;list-style:none}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-100{font-size:100%}
Allen, Pauline and Mayer, Wendy (2000). John Chrysostom. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-18252-2
Attwater, Donald (1960). St. John Chrysostom: Pastor and Preacher. London: Catholic Book Club.
Blamires, Harry (1996). The New Bloomsday Book: A Guide Through Ulysses. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-13858-2
Brändle, R., V. Jegher-Bucher, and Johannes Chrysostomus (1995). Acht Reden gegen Juden (Bibliothek der griechischen Literatur 41), Stuttgart: Hiersemann.
Brustein, William I. (2003). Roots of Hate: Anti-Semitism in Europe before the Holocaust. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-77308-3
Carter, Robert (1962). "The Chronology of St. John Chrysostom's Early Life." Traditio 18:357–64.
Chrysostom, John (1979). Discourses Against Judaizing Christians, trans. Paul W. Harkins. The Fathers of the Church; v. 68. Washington: Catholic University of America Press.
Chuvin, Pierre (1990). "A chronicle of the last pagans". Harvard University Press
Dumortier, Jean (1951). "La valeur historique du dialogue de Palladius et la chronologie de saint Jean Chrysostome." Mélanges de science religieuse 8, 51–56.
Hartney, Aideen (2004). John Chrysostom and the Transformation of the City. London: Duckworth. ISBN 0-520-04757-5.
Joyce, James (1961). Ulysses. New York: The Modern Library.
Kelly, John Norman Davidson (1995). Golden Mouth: The Story of John Chrysostom-Ascetic, Preacher, Bishop. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-8014-3189-1.
Laqueur, Walter (2006). The Changing Face of Antisemitism: From Ancient Times To The Present Day. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-530429-2.
Liebeschuetz, J.H.W.G. (1990) Barbarians and Bishops: Army, Church and State in the Age of Arcadius and Chrysostom. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 0-19-814886-0.
Lewy, Yohanan [Hans] (1997). "John Chrysostom". Encyclopaedia Judaica (CD-ROM Edition Version 1.0). Ed. Cecil Roth. Keter Publishing House. ISBN 965-07-0665-8.
Meeks, Wayne A., and Robert L. Wilken (1978). Jews and Christians in Antioch in the First Four Centuries of the Common Era (The Society of Biblical Literature, Number 13). Missoula: Scholars Press. ISBN 0-89130-229-8.
Morris, Stephen. "'Let Us Love One Another': Liturgy, Morality, and Political Theory in Chrysostom's Sermons on Rom. 12–13 and II Thess. 2," in: Speculum Sermonis: Interdisciplinary Reflections on the Medieval Sermon, ed. Georgiana Donavin, Cary J. Nederman, and Richard Utz. Turnhout: Brepols, 2004. pp. 89–112.
Palladius, Bishop of Aspuna. Palladius on the Life And Times of St. John Chrysostom, transl. and edited by Robert T. Meyer. New York: Newman Press, 1985. ISBN 0-8091-0358-3.
Parks, James (1969). Prelude to Dialogue. London.
Parry, David; David Melling, eds. (2001). The Blackwell Dictionary of Eastern Christianity. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 0-631-18966-1.
Pradels, W. (2002). "Lesbos Cod. Gr. 27 : The Tale of a Discovery", Zeitschrift für Antikes Christentum 6, pp. 81–89.
Pradels, W., R. Brändle, and M. Heimgartner (2001). "Das bisher vermisste Textstück in Johannes Chrysostomus, Adversus Judaeos, Oratio 2", Zeitschrift für Antikes Christentum 5, pp. 23–49.
Pradels, W., R. Brändle, and M. Heimgartner (2002). "The sequence and dating of the series of John Chrysostom's eight discourses Adversus Judaeos", Zeitschrift für Antikes Christentum 6, 90–116.
Schaff, Philip, and Henry Wace (eds.) (1890). Socrates, Sozomenus: Church Histories (A Select Library of Nicene and post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church, second series, vol. II). New York: The Christian Literature Company.
Stark, Rodney (1997). The Rise of Christianity. How the Obscure, Marginal Jesus Movement Became the Dominant Religious Force in the Western World in a Few Centuries. Princeton University Press.
Stephens, W.R.W. (1883). Saint John Chrysostom, His Life and Times. London: John Murray.
Stow, Kenneth (2006). Jewish Dogs, An Imagine and Its Interpreters: Continiuity in the Catholic-Jewish Encounter. Stanford: Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-5281-8.
Wilken, Robert Louis (1983). John Chrysostom and the Jews: Rhetoric and Reality in the Late Fourth Century. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Willey, John H. (1906). Chrysostom: The Orator. Cincinnati: Jennings and Graham.
Woods, Thomas (2005). How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization. Washington, D.C.: Regenery. ISBN 0-89526-038-7
Collected works[edit]
Widely used editions of Chrysostom's works are available in Greek, Latin, English, and French. The Greek edition is edited by Sir Henry Savile (eight volumes, Eton, 1613); the most complete Greek and Latin edition is edited by Bernard de Montfaucon (thirteen volumes, Paris, 1718–38, republished in 1834–40, and reprinted in Migne's "Patrologia Graeca", volumes 47–64). There is an English translation in the first series of the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers (London and New York, 1889–90). A selection of his writings has been published more recently in the original with facing French translation in Sources Chrétiennes.[citation needed]
Further reading[edit]
Bibliography[edit]
Chrysostom's bibliography
Primary sources[edit]
Sermon on Alms Translated by Margaret M. Sherwood from the Parallel Greek and Latin Text of the Abbé Migne (New York: The New York School of Philanthropy, 1917)
The priesthood: a translation of the Peri hierosynes of St. John Chrysostom, by WA Jurgens, (New York: Macmillan, 1955)
Commentary on Saint John the apostle and evangelist: homilies 1–47, translated by Sister Thomas Aquinas Goggin, Fathers of the Church vol 33, (New York: Fathers of the Church, Inc, 1957)
Commentary on Saint John the Apostle and Evangelist, translated by Sister Thomas Aquinas Goggin. Homilies 48–88, Fathers of the Church vol 41, (Washington, DC: Catholic University of America Press, 1959) [translation of Homiliae in Ioannem]
Baptismal instructions, translated and annotated by Paul W Harkins, (Westminster, MD: Newman Press, 1963)
Discourses against judaizing Christians, translated by Paul W Harkins., Fathers of the Church vol 68, (Washington: Catholic University of America Press, 1979)
On the incomprehensible nature of God, translated by Paul W Harkins. Fathers of the Church vol 72, (Washington, DC: Catholic University of America Press, 1984)
On wealth and poverty, translated and introduced by Catharine P Roth, (Crestwood, New York: St. Vladimir's Seminary Press, 1984)
Chrysostom, John (1985). Apologist. Margaret A. Schatkin and Paul W. Harkins, trans. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press. ISBN 0-8132-0073-3. [translations of Discourse on blessed Babylas, and Against the Greeks: Demonstration against the pagans that Christ is God.]
Chrysostom, John (1986). Homilies on Genesis. Robert C. Hill, trans. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press. ISBN 0-8132-0074-1. [translation of Homilies on Genesis 1–17]
Chrysostom, John (1986). On marriage and family life. Catherine P. Roth, trans. Crestwood, N.Y.: St. Vladimir's Seminary Press. ISBN 0-913836-86-9.
Samuel NC Lieu, ed, The Emperor Julian: panegyric and polemic. Claudius Mamertinus, John Chrysostom, Ephrem the Syrian, (Liverpool: Liverpool University Press, 1986.) [contains translation of John Chrysostom, Homily on St. Babylas, against Julian and the pagans XIV-XIX]
Commentaries on the sages, translated with an introduction by Robert Charles Hill, 2 vols, (Brookline, MA: Holy Cross Orthodox Press, 2006) [Vol 1 is a translation of the Commentary on Job; vol 2 is a translation of the Commentary on Proverbs]
Secondary sources[edit]
Attwater, Donald (1939). St. John Chrysostom: The Voice of Gold. London: Harvill.
Baur, Chrysostomus (1959). John Chrysostom and His Times. M. Gonzaga, trans (2nd ed.). London: Sands.
Lim, Richard (1995). Public disputation, power, and social order in late antiquity. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 0-585-16041-4.
"Letter of Pope Benedict XVI on the occasion of the 16th centenary of the death of St John Chrysostom". Holy See. Libreria Editrice Vaticana. 10 August 2007.
External links[edit]
Quotes by Saint John Chrysostom by Orthodox Church Quotes
On Saint John Chrysostom's Antioch Years by Pope Benedict XVI
Symposium Commemorating the 1600th Anniversary of Saint John's Repose
St. John Chrysostom article from The Catholic Encyclopedia (Newadvent Website)
Jewish Encyclopedia: Chrysostomus, Joannes
John Chrysostom on Patristique.org (French)
Was St. John Chrysostom Anti-Semitic?
Saint John Chrysostom the Archbishop of Constantinople Orthodox icon and synaxarion (13 November feast day)
Translation of the relics of Saint John Chrysostom the Archbishop of Constantinople (27 January feast day)
Synaxis of the Ecumenical Teachers and Hierarchs: Basil the Great, Gregory the Theologian, and John Chrysostom (30 January feast day)
Colonnade Statue St Peter's Square
John Chrysostom Mosaic in Hagia Sophia
Works[edit]
Works by or about John Chrysostom at Internet Archive
Works by John Chrysostom at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
The Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom
Study Text of the Divine Liturgy of Saint John Chrysostom (Ruthenian Edition, with Scriptural references)
Writings of Chrysostom in the Christian Classics Ethereal Library edition of the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers:
On the Priesthood, Ascetic Treatises, Select Homilies and Letters, Homilies on the Statues
Homilies on the Gospel of St. Matthew '
Homilies on the Acts of the Apostles and the Epistle to the Romans
Homilies on First and Second Corinthians
Homilies on the Epistles to the Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Thessalonians, Timothy, Titus, and Philemon
Homilies on the Gospel of St. John and the Epistle to the Hebrews
The Hieratikon Easter Sermon of St. John Chrysostom
Eight Homilies Against the Jews
Opera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Graeca with analytical indexes
The Auxiliary Resources page on the Electronic Manipulus florum Project Website provides digital transcriptions of the Latin translations of De laudibus sancti Pauli homeliae (PG 50, 473–514), Dialogus de sacerdotio (PG 48, 623–91), and In epistolam ad Hebraeos homeliae (PG 63, 9–236), as well as the Latin text of the Pseudo-Chrysostom Opus imperfectum in Mattheum (PG 56, 611–946). It also provides digital transcriptions of Anianus of Celeda's prologue on the homilies on Matthew and his Latin translations of the first eight homilies (PG 58, 975–1058) and also Anianus of Celeda's prologue and his Latin translations of Chrysostom's homelies 1–25 on Matthew from the editio princeps published in Venice in 1503.
The Chrysostomus Latinus in Iohannem Online (CLIO) Project is an Open Access resource that provides Burgundio of Pisa's translation of Chrysostom's 88 homilies on the Gospel of John (1173), which has never been printed, as well as the later Latin translations of Francesco Griffolini (1462) and Bernard de Montfaucon (1728), along with Montfaucon's critical edition of the original Greek text.
The Chrysostomus Latinus in Mattheum Online (CLIMO) Project is a new Open Access project that seeks to follow the successful format of the CLIO Project. At present (July 2020) it provides transcriptions of Burgundio's preface and Homily 2.
Ps.Chrysostom Homily 2 on Christmas at Tertullian.org and here at Archive.org.
S. John Chrysostom: Homilies at OPenn
Orthodox feast days[edit]
27 January, Translation of the relics of Saint John Chrysostom to Constantinople
30 January, Synaxis of the Three Great Hierarchs
14 September, Repose of Saint John Chrysostom
13 November, Saint John Chrysostom the Archbishop of Constantinople
Titles of the Great Christian Church
Preceded byNectarius
 Archbishop of Constantinople398–404
Succeeded byArsacius of Tarsus
vteBishops of Byzantium and Patriarchs of ConstantinopleBishops of Heraclea/ByzantiumRoman period (38-330 AD)
Andrew
Stachys
Onesimus
Polycarpus I
Plutarch
Sedecion
Diogenes
Eleutherius
Felix
Polycarpus II
Athenodorus
Euzois
Laurence
Alypius
Pertinax
Olympianus
Marcus I
Philadelphus
Cyriacus I
Castinus
Eugenius I
Titus
Dometius
Rufinus
Probus
Metrophanes
Alexander
Archbishops of ConstantinopleRoman period (330–451 AD)
Alexander
Paul I
Eusebius
Macedonius I
Eudoxius
Evagrius
Demophilus
Maximus I
Gregory I
Nectarius
John I Chrysostom
Arsacius
Atticus
Sisinnius I
Nestorius
Maximianus
Proclus
Flavian
Anatolius
Patriarchs of ConstantinopleByzantine period(451–1453 AD)
Anatolius
Gennadius I
Acacius
Fravitta
Euphemius
Macedonius II
Timothy I
John II
Epiphanius
Anthimus I
Menas
Eutychius
John III
John IV
Cyriacus II
Thomas I
Sergius I
Pyrrhus
Paul II
Peter
Thomas II
John V
Constantine I
Theodore I
George I
Paul III
Callinicus I
Cyrus
John VI
Germanus I
Anastasius
Constantine II
Nicetas I
Paul IV
Tarasius
Nicephorus I
Theodotus I
Antony I
John VII
Methodius I
Ignatios
Photios I
Stephen I
Antony II
Nicholas I
Εuthymius I
Stephen II
Tryphon
Theophylact
Polyeuctus
Βasil I
Αntony III
Nicholas II
Sisinnius II
Sergius II
Eustathius
Alexius
Michael I
Constantine III
John VIII
Cosmas I
Eustratius
Nicholas III
John IX
Leo
Michael II
Cosmas II
Nicholas IV
Theodotus II
Neophytus I
Constantine IV
Luke
Michael III
Chariton
Theodosius I
Basil II
Nicetas II
Leontius
Dositheus
George II
John X
Michael IV†
Theodore II†
Maximus II†
Μanuel I†
Germanus II†
Methodius II†
Manuel II†
Arsenius†
Nicephorus II†
Germanus III
Joseph I
John XI
Gregory II
Athanasius I
John XII
Nephon I
John XIII
Gerasimus I
Isaias
John XIV
Isidore I
Callistus I
Philotheus
Macarius
Nilus
Antony IV
Callistus II
Matthew I
Euthymius II
Joseph II
Metrophanes II
Gregory III
Athanasius II
Patriarchs of ConstantinopleOttoman period(1453–1923 AD)
Gennadius II
Isidore II
Joasaph I
Sophronius I
Mark II
Symeon I
Dionysius I
Raphael I
Maximus III
Nephon II
Maximus IV
Joachim I
Pachomius I
Theoleptus I
Jeremias I
Joannicius I
Dionysius II
Joasaph II
Metrophanes III
Jeremias II
Pachomius II
Theoleptus II
Matthew II
Gabriel I
Theophanes I
Meletius I
Neophytus II
Raphael II
Cyril I
Timothy II
Gregory IV
Anthimus II
Cyril II
Athanasius III
Neophytus III
Parthenius I
Parthenius II
Joannicius II
Cyril III
Paisius I
Parthenius III
Gabriel II
Parthenius IV
Dionysius III
Clement
Methodius III
Dionysius IV
Gerasimus II
Athanasius IV
James
Callinicus II
Neophytus IV
Gabriel III
Neophytus V
Cyprianus
Athanasius V
Cyril IV
Cosmas III
Jeremias III
(Callinicus III)
Paisius II
Seraphim I
Neophytus VI
Cyril V
Callinicus IV (III)
Seraphim II
Joannicius III
Samuel
Meletius II
Theodosius II
Sophronius II
Gabriel IV
Procopius
Neophytus VII
Gerasimus III
Gregory V
Callinicus V (IV)
Jeremias IV
Cyril VI
Eugenius II
Anthimus III
Chrysanthus
Agathangelus
Constantius I
Constantius II
Gregory VI
Anthimus IV
Anthimus V
Germanus IV
Meletius III
Anthimus VI
Cyril VII
Joachim II
Sophronius III
Joachim III
Joachim IV
Dionysius V
Neophytus VIII
Anthimus VII
Constantine V
Germanus V
Meletius IV
Patriarchs of ConstantinopleTurkish period (since 1923 AD)
Gregory VII
Constantine VI
Basil III
Photius II
Benjamin
Maximus V
Athenagoras
Demetrius
Bartholomew
† in exile at Nicaea
 Christianity portal
Links to related articles
vteGreek Orthodox ChurchPatriarchates
Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople
Patriarchate of Alexandria
Patriarchate of Antioch
Patriarchate of Jerusalem
Autocephalous churches
Church of Greece
Church of Cyprus
Church of Albania
Autonomous churches
Church of Crete
Church of Sinai
History
33–717 AD
717–1204 AD
1204–1453 AD
1453–1821 AD
1821–1924 AD
1924–1974 AD
1974–2008 AD
Since 2008 AD
 Christianity portal
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
vteHistory of Catholic theologyKey figuresGeneral
History of the Catholic Church
Timeline
History of the papacy
Papal primacy
Ecumenical councils
Catholic Bible
Vulgate
Biblical canon
History of Christian theology
Early Church
Paul
Clement of Rome
First Epistle of Clement
Didache
Ignatius of Antioch
Polycarp
Epistle of Barnabas
The Shepherd of Hermas
Aristides of Athens
Justin Martyr
Epistle to Diognetus
Irenaeus
Montanism
Tertullian
Origen
Antipope Novatian
Cyprian
Constantine toPope Gregory I
Eusebius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Arianism
Pelagianism
Nestorianism
Monophysitism
Ephrem the Syrian
Hilary of Poitiers
Cyril of Jerusalem
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Ambrose
John Chrysostom
Jerome
Augustine of Hippo
John Cassian
Orosius
Cyril of Alexandria
Peter Chrysologus
Pope Leo I
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Pope Gregory I
Early Middle Ages
Isidore of Seville
John Climacus
Maximus the Confessor
Monothelitism
Ecthesis
Bede
John of Damascus
Iconoclasm
Transubstantiation dispute
Predestination disputes
Paulinus II of Aquileia
Alcuin
Benedict of Aniane
Rabanus Maurus
Paschasius Radbertus
John Scotus Eriugena
High Middle Ages
Roscellinus
Gregory of Narek
Berengar of Tours
Peter Damian
Anselm of Canterbury
Joachim of Fiore
Peter Abelard
Decretum Gratiani
Bernard of Clairvaux
Peter Lombard
Anselm of Laon
Hildegard of Bingen
Hugh of Saint Victor
Dominic de Guzmán
Robert Grosseteste
Francis of Assisi
Anthony of Padua
Beatrice of Nazareth
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Thomism
Roger Bacon
Mysticism and reforms
Ramon Llull
Duns Scotus
Dante Alighieri
William of Ockham
Richard Rolle
John of Ruusbroec
Catherine of Siena
Bridget of Sweden
Meister Eckhart
Johannes Tauler
Walter Hilton
The Cloud of Unknowing
Heinrich Seuse
Geert Groote
Devotio Moderna
Julian of Norwich
Thomas à Kempis
Nicholas of Cusa
Marsilio Ficino
Girolamo Savonarola
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
ReformationCounter-Reformation
Erasmus
Thomas Cajetan
Thomas More
John Fisher
Johann Eck
Francisco de Vitoria
Thomas of Villanova
Ignatius of Loyola
Francisco de Osuna
John of Ávila
Francis Xavier
Teresa of Ávila
Luis de León
John of the Cross
Peter Canisius
Luis de Molina (Molinism)
Robert Bellarmine
Francisco Suárez
Lawrence of Brindisi
Francis de Sales
Baroque period toFrench Revolution
Tommaso Campanella
Pierre de Bérulle
Pierre Gassendi
René Descartes
Mary of Jesus of Ágreda
António Vieira
Jean-Jacques Olier
Louis Thomassin
Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet
François Fénelon
Cornelius Jansen (Jansenism)
Blaise Pascal
Nicolas Malebranche
Giambattista Vico
Alphonsus Liguori
Louis de Montfort
Maria Gaetana Agnesi
Alfonso Muzzarelli
Johann Michael Sailer
Clement Mary Hofbauer
Bruno Lanteri
19th century
Joseph Görres
Felicité de Lamennais
Luigi Taparelli
Antonio Rosmini
Ignaz von Döllinger
John Henry Newman
Henri Lacordaire
Jaime Balmes
Gaetano Sanseverino
Giovanni Maria Cornoldi
Wilhelm Emmanuel Freiherr von Ketteler
Giuseppe Pecci
Joseph Hergenröther
Tommaso Maria Zigliara
Matthias Joseph Scheeben
Émile Boutroux
Modernism
Neo-Scholasticism
Léon Bloy
Désiré-Joseph Mercier
Friedrich von Hügel
Vladimir Solovyov
Marie-Joseph Lagrange
George Tyrrell
Maurice Blondel
Thérèse of Lisieux
20th century
G. K. Chesterton
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Joseph Maréchal
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
Jacques Maritain
Étienne Gilson
Ronald Knox
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Gabriel Marcel
Marie-Dominique Chenu
Romano Guardini
Edith Stein
Fulton Sheen
Henri de Lubac
Daniel-Rops
Jean Guitton
Josemaría Escrivá
Nouvelle théologie
Karl Rahner
Yves Congar
Bernard Lonergan
Emmanuel Mounier
Jean Daniélou
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Alfred Delp
Thomas Merton
René Girard
Johann Baptist Metz
Jean Vanier
Henri Nouwen
21st century
Carlo Maria Martini
Pope Benedict XVI
Walter Kasper
Raniero Cantalamessa
Michał Heller
Peter Kreeft
Jean-Luc Marion
Tomáš Halík
Scott Hahn
 Catholicism portal
vteSaints of the Catholic ChurchStages of canonization: Servant of God   →   Venerable   →   Blessed   →   SaintVirgin Mary
Mother of God (Theotokos)
Immaculate Conception
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Marian apparition
Titles of Mary
Joseph (husband)
Apostles
Andrew
Barnabas
Bartholomew
James of Alphaeus
James the Great
John
Jude
Matthew
Matthias
Paul
Peter
Philip
Simon
Thomas
Archangels
Gabriel
Michael
Raphael
Confessors
Anatolius
Athanasius the Confessor
Chariton the Confessor
Dominic
Edward the Confessor
Francis of Assisi
Francis Borgia
Louis Bertrand
Maximus the Confessor
Michael of Synnada
Paphnutius the Confessor
Paul I of Constantinople
Peter Claver
Salonius
Seraphim of Sarov
Theophanes the Confessor
Disciples
Apollos
Mary Magdalene
Priscilla and Aquila
Silvanus
Stephen
Timothy
Titus
Seventy disciples
Doctors
Gregory the Great
Ambrose
Augustine of Hippo
Jerome
John Chrysostom
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Athanasius of Alexandria
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
John of Damascus
Bede the Venerable
Ephrem the Syrian
Thomas Aquinas
Bonaventure
Anselm of Canterbury
Isidore of Seville
Peter Chrysologus
Leo the Great
Peter Damian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hilary of Poitiers
Alphonsus Liguori
Francis de Sales
Peter Canisius
John of the Cross
Robert Bellarmine
Albertus Magnus
Anthony of Padua
Lawrence of Brindisi
Teresa of Ávila
Catherine of Siena
Thérèse of Lisieux
John of Ávila
Hildegard of Bingen
Gregory of Narek
Evangelists
Matthew
Mark
Luke
John
ChurchFathers
Alexander of Alexandria
Alexander of Jerusalem
Ambrose of Milan
Anatolius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Augustine of Hippo
Caesarius of Arles
Caius
Cappadocian Fathers
Clement of Alexandria
Clement of Rome
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
Damasus I
Desert Fathers
Desert Mothers
Dionysius of Alexandria
Dionysius of Corinth
Dionysius
Ephrem the Syrian
Epiphanius of Salamis
Fulgentius of Ruspe
Gregory the Great
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Hilary of Poitiers
Hippolytus of Rome
Ignatius of Antioch
Irenaeus of Lyons
Isidore of Seville
Jerome of Stridonium
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Maximus the Confessor
Melito of Sardis
Quadratus of Athens
Papias of Hierapolis
Peter Chrysologus
Polycarp of Smyrna
Theophilus of Antioch
Victorinus of Pettau
Vincent of Lérins
Zephyrinus
Martyrs
Canadian Martyrs
Carthusian Martyrs
Child Martyrs of Tlaxcala
Dismas the Good Thief
Forty Martyrs of England and Wales
Four Crowned Martyrs
Gerard of Csanád
Great Martyr
The Holy Innocents
Irish Martyrs
Joan of Arc
John Fisher
Korean Martyrs
Lorenzo Ruiz
Lübeck martyrs
Luigi Versiglia
Martyrology
Martyrs of Albania
Martyrs of China
Martyrs of Japan
Martyrs of Laos
Martyrs of Natal
Martyrs of Otranto
Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
Maximilian Kolbe
Óscar Romero
Pedro Calungsod
Perpetua and Felicity
Peter Chanel
Pietro Parenzo
Philomena
Saints of the Cristero War
Stephen
Teresa Benedicta of the Cross
Thomas Becket
Thomas More
Three Martyrs of Chimbote
Uganda Martyrs
Vietnamese Martyrs
Valentine of Rome
Victor and Corona
Missionaries
Augustine of Canterbury
Boniface
Damien of Molokai
Francis Xavier
François de Laval
Gregory the Illuminator
Junípero Serra
Nico of Georgia
Patrick of Ireland
Remigius
Patriarchs
Adam
Abel
Abraham
Isaac
Jacob
Joseph
Joseph (father of Jesus)
David
Noah
Solomon
Matriarchs
Popes
Adeodatus I
Adeodatus II
Adrian III
Agapetus I
Agatho
Alexander I
Anacletus
Anastasius I
Anicetus
Anterus
Benedict II
Boniface I
Boniface IV
Caius
Callixtus I
Celestine I
Celestine V
Clement I
Cornelius
Damasus I
Dionysius
Eleuterus
Eugene I
Eusebius
Eutychian
Evaristus
Fabian
Felix I
Felix III
Felix IV
Gelasius I
Gregory I
Gregory II
Gregory III
Gregory VII
Hilarius
Hormisdas
Hyginus
Innocent I
John I
John XXIII
John Paul II
Julius I
Leo I
Leo II
Leo III
Leo IV
Leo IX
Linus
Lucius I
Marcellinus
Marcellus I
Mark
Martin I
Miltiades
Nicholas I
Paschal I
Paul I
Paul VI
Peter
Pius I
Pius V
Pius X
Pontian
Sergius I
Silverius
Simplicius
Siricius
Sixtus I
Sixtus II
Sixtus III
Soter
Stephen I
Stephen IV
Sylvester I
Symmachus
Telesphorus
Urban I
Victor I
Vitalian
Zachary
Zephyrinus
Zosimus
Prophets
Agabus
Amos
Anna
Baruch ben Neriah
David
Dalua
Elijah
Ezekiel
Habakkuk
Haggai
Hosea
Isaiah
Jeremiah
Job
Joel
John the Baptist
Jonah
Judas Barsabbas
Malachi
Melchizedek
Micah
Moses
Nahum
Obadiah
Samuel
Seven Maccabees and their mother
Simeon
Zechariah (prophet)
Zechariah (NT)
Zephaniah
Virgins
Agatha of Sicily
Agnes of Rome
Angela of the Cross
Æthelthryth
Bernadette Soubirous
Brigid of Kildare
Catherine Labouré
Catherine of Siena
Cecilia
Clare of Assisi
Eulalia of Mérida
Euphemia
Faustina Kowalska
Genevieve
Kateri Tekakwitha
Lucy of Syracuse
Maria Goretti
Teresa of Calcutta
Narcisa de Jesús
Rose of Lima
See also
Calendar of saints
Fourteen Holy Helpers
Military saints
Athleta Christi
Miles Christianus
Church Militant
Virtuous pagan
 Catholic Church portal
 Saints portal
.mw-parser-output .subjectbar{background-color:#f9f9f9;border:1px solid #aaa;clear:both;margin-bottom:0.5em;margin-top:0.5em;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box;font-size:88%}PortalsAccess related topicsBiography portalChristianity portalFind out more onWikipedia'sSister projectsMediafrom CommonsQuotationsfrom WikiquoteSource textsfrom WikisourceDatafrom Wikidata
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 90394927
BNE: XX1723431
BNF: cb11908883h (data)
CANTIC: a10453465
CiNii: DA00968945
GND: 118557831
ICCU: IT\ICCU\CFIV\154732
ISNI: 0000 0001 2282 4041
LCCN: n80001460
LNB: 000190579
NKC: jn20011024076
NLA: 35028283
NLG: 19286
NLI: 001789539
NLK: KAC200805813
NSK: 000086001
NTA: 068249772
RERO: 02-A022771693
SELIBR: 191679
SUDOC: 026938987
Trove: 801657
ULAN: 500450205
VcBA: 495/53565
VIAF: 305214868
 WorldCat Identities: viaf-305214868
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=John_Chrysostom&amp;oldid=980232984"
		Categories: John Chrysostom340s births407 deathsPeople from AntiochAntiochian GreeksAntiochian Greek ChristiansArchbishops of Constantinople4th-century archbishops4th-century Byzantine people4th-century Byzantine writers4th-century Christian mystics4th-century Christian theologians5th-century archbishops5th-century Byzantine people5th-century Byzantine writers5th-century Christian mystics5th-century Christian saints5th-century Christian theologiansAncient Christian antisemitismAncient Christians involved in controversiesAncient Roman exilesByzantine hermitsByzantine Christian mysticsByzantine theologiansAncient Christian anti-JudaismChurch FathersDoctors of the ChurchGreek Christian mysticsPatristic mysticsRoman Catholic theologiansEastern Orthodox theologiansSaints from ConstantinopleSaints from Roman AnatoliaSermon writersSyrian archbishopsSyrian Christian saintsSyrian Christian mysticsHidden categories: CS1 Latin-language sources (la)Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2020Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from September 2020All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from May 2020Articles containing Greek-language textArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textArticles with unsourced statements from August 2020Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from May 2020Articles with unsourced statements from June 2015Articles with unsourced statements from September 2020All pages needing factual verificationWikipedia articles needing factual verification from May 2020Articles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with CINII identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ICCU identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with LNB identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NLG identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with NLK identifiersWikipedia articles with NSK identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with RERO identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikisource
		Languages
		العربيةܐܪܡܝܐԱրեւմտահայերէնAsturianuAzərbaycancaБеларускаяБългарскиBoarischCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიKiswahiliLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMaltiمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSarduScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt吴语中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 25 September 2020, at 10:23 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
