	Francis Xavier
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the person. For schools and other uses, see St. Xavier (disambiguation).
"François Xavier" redirects here. For the French journalist, see François Xavier (journalist).
Roman Catholic saint and missionary
SaintFrancis XavierS.J.A painting of Saint Francis Xavier, held in the Kobe City Museum, JapanApostle to the Far East Missionary PriestBornFrancisco de Jasso y Azpilicueta(1506-04-07)7 April 1506Javier, Kingdom of Navarre (in present-day Spain, France)Died3 December 1552(1552-12-03) (aged 46)Shangchuan Island, Chuanshan Archipelago, Taishan, ChinaVenerated inCatholic ChurchAnglican Communion[1]Lutheranism[2]Beatified25 October 1619, Rome, Papal States by Pope Paul VCanonized12 March 1622, Rome, Papal States by Pope Gregory XVFeast3 DecemberAttributesCassock, surplice, stole, ferraiolo, and a crucifixPatronageAfrican missions; Agartala, India; Ahmedabad, India; Alexandria, Louisiana; Apostleship of Prayer; Australia; Bombay, India; Borneo; Cape Town, South Africa; China; Dinajpur, Bangladesh; East Indies; Fathers of the Precious Blood; foreign missions; Freising, Germany; Goa, India; Fiji; Green Bay, Wisconsin; India; Indianapolis, Indiana; Key West, Florida; Sophia University, Tokyo, Japan; University of Saint Francis Xavier; Sucre, Bolivia; Joliet, Illinois; Kabankalan, Philippines; Kollam, India; Nasugbu, Batangas, Philippines; Abuyog, Leyte, Philippines; Alegria, Cebu, Philippines; Macau; Madagascar; diocese of Malindi, Kenya; missionaries; Missioners of the Precious Blood; Navarre, Spain; navigators; New Zealand; parish missions; plague epidemics; Propagation of the Faith; Zagreb, Croatia; Indonesia; Malacca; Malaysia; Mongolia; Sri Lanka
Styles ofFrancis Xavier S.J.Reference styleThe Reverend FatherSpoken styleFatherPosthumous styleSaint
Part of a series on theSociety of JesusChristogram of the Jesuits
History
Regimini militantis
Suppression
Hierarchy
Superior General
Arturo Sosa
Spirituality
Spiritual Exercises
Ad maiorem Dei gloriam
Magis
Works
List of Jesuit educational institutions
Notable Jesuits
Ignatius of Loyola
Francis Xavier
Peter Faber
Aloysius Gonzaga
John Berchmans
Robert Bellarmine
Peter Canisius
Edmund Campion
Pedro Arrupe
Pope Francis
Jesuit saints
Jesuit theologians
Jesuit philosophers
 Catholicism portalvte
Francis Xavier (born Francisco de Jasso y Azpilicueta; Latin Franciscus Xaverius; Basque: Frantzisko Xabierkoa; Spanish: Francisco Javier; Portuguese: Francisco Xavier; April 7, 1506 – December 3, 1552), venerated as Saint Francis Xavier, was a Spanish Catholic priest, missionary and saint from Navarre who was the co-founder of the Society of Jesus.
Born in Javier (Xavier in Old Spanish and in Navarro-Aragonese), Kingdom of Navarre (in present-day Spain), he was a companion of Ignatius of Loyola and one of the first seven Jesuits who took vows of poverty and chastity at Montmartre, Paris, in 1534.[3] He led an extensive mission into Asia, mainly in the Portuguese Empire of the time and was influential in evangelization work, most notably in India. Although some sources claim that the Goa Inquisition was proposed by Francis Xavier[4][5], his letter to the king of Portugal, John III, asked for a special minister whose sole office would be to further Christianity in Goa[6]. He also was the first Christian missionary to venture into Japan, Borneo, the Maluku Islands, and other areas. In those areas, struggling to learn the local languages and in the face of opposition, he had less success than he had enjoyed in India. Xavier was about to extend his missionary preaching to China when he died on Shangchuan Island.
He was beatified by Pope Paul V on 25 October 1619 and canonized by Pope Gregory XV on 12 March 1622. In 1624 he was made co-patron of Navarre. Known as the "Apostle of the Indies" and "Apostle of Japan", he is considered to be one of the greatest missionaries since Paul the Apostle.[7] In 1927, Pope Pius XI published the decree "Apostolicorum in Missionibus" naming Francis Xavier, along with Thérèse of Lisieux, co-patron of all foreign missions.[8] He is now co-patron saint of Navarre with Fermin. The Day of Navarre in Navarre, Spain, marks the anniversary of Francis Xavier's death, on 3 December 1552.
Contents
1 Early life
2 Missionary work
2.1 Goa and India
2.2 Southeast Asia
2.3 Japan
2.4 China
3 Burials and relics
4 Veneration
4.1 Beatification and canonization
4.2 Pilgrimage centres
4.2.1 Goa
4.2.2 Other places
4.3 Novena of grace
5 Legacy
5.1 Namesake
5.2 In art
5.3 Music
5.4 Missionary
5.5 Role in the Goa Inquisition
6 See also
7 Footnotes
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links
Early life
  The castle of the Xavier family was later acquired by the Society of Jesus.
Francis Xavier was born in the royal castle of Xavier, in the Kingdom of Navarre, on 7 April 1506 according to a family register. He was the youngest son of Juan de Jasso y Atondo, seneschal of Xavier castle, who belonged to a prosperous farming family and had acquired a doctorate in law at the University of Bologna.[9] Basque[10] and Romance[11] were his two mother tongues. Juan later became privy counsellor and finance minister to King John III of Navarre (Jean d'Albret).[12] Francis's mother was Doña María de Azpilcueta y Aznárez, sole heiress of two noble Navarrese families. He was through her related to the great theologian and philosopher Martín de Azpilcueta.[13]
In 1512, Ferdinand, King of Aragon and regent of Castile, invaded Navarre, initiating a war that lasted over 18 years. Three years later, Francis's father died when Francis was only nine years old. In 1516, Francis's brothers participated in a failed Navarrese-French attempt to expel the Spanish invaders from the kingdom. The Spanish Governor, Cardinal Cisneros, confiscated the family lands, demolished the outer wall, the gates, and two towers of the family castle, and filled in the moat. In addition, the height of the keep was reduced by half.[14] Only the family residence inside the castle was left. In 1522 one of Francis's brothers participated with 200 Navarrese nobles in dogged but failed resistance against the Castilian Count of Miranda in Amaiur, Baztan, the last Navarrese territorial position south of the Pyrenees.
In 1525, Francis went to study in Paris at the Collège Sainte-Barbe, University of Paris, where he would spend the next eleven years.[15] In the early days he acquired some reputation as an athlete[16] and a high-jumper.[17]
In 1529, Francis shared lodgings with his friend Pierre Favre. A new student, Ignatius of Loyola, came to room with them.[18] At 38, Ignatius was much older than Pierre and Francis, who were both 23 at the time. Ignatius convinced Pierre to become a priest, but was unable to convince Francis, who had aspirations of worldly advancement. At first Francis regarded the new lodger as a joke and was sarcastic about his efforts to convert students.[19] When Pierre left their lodgings to visit his family and Ignatius was alone with Francis, he was able to slowly break down Francis's resistance.[20] According to most biographies Ignatius is said to have posed the question: "What will it profit a man to gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?"[21] However, according to James Broderick such method is not characteristic of Ignatius and there is no evidence that he employed it at all.[19]
In 1530 Francis received the degree of Master of Arts, and afterwards taught Aristotelian philosophy at Beauvais College, University of Paris.[19]
Missionary work
  Church of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre, Paris
On 15 August 1534, seven students met in a crypt beneath the Church of Saint Denis (now Saint Pierre de Montmartre), on the hill of Montmartre, overlooking Paris. They were Francis, Ignatius of Loyola, Alfonso Salmeron, Diego Laínez, Nicolás Bobadilla from Spain, Peter Faber from Savoy, and Simão Rodrigues from Portugal. They made private vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience to the Pope, and also vowed to go to the Holy Land to convert infidels.[22][23] Francis began his study of theology in 1534 and was ordained on 24 June 1537.
In 1539, after long discussions, Ignatius drew up a formula for a new religious order, the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits).[20] Ignatius's plan for the order was approved by Pope Paul III in 1540.[24]
In 1540 King John of Portugal had Pedro Mascarenhas, Portuguese ambassador to the Holy See, request Jesuit missionaries to spread the faith in his new possessions in India, where the king believed that Christian values were eroding among the Portuguese. After successive appeals to the Pope asking for missionaries for the East Indies under the Padroado agreement, John III was encouraged by Diogo de Gouveia, rector of the Collège Sainte-Barbe, to recruit the newly graduated students that would establish the Society of Jesus.[25]
  Francisco Xavier taking leave of John III of Portugal for an expedition
Ignatius promptly appointed Nicholas Bobadilla and Simão Rodrigues. At the last moment, however, Bobadilla became seriously ill. With some hesitance and uneasiness, Ignatius asked Francis to go in Bobadilla's place. Thus, Francis Xavier began his life as the first Jesuit missionary almost accidentally.[26][27][28]
Leaving Rome on 15 March 1540, in the Ambassador's train,[29] Francis took with him a breviary, a catechism, and De Institutione bene vivendi by Croatian humanist Marko Marulić,[30] a Latin book that had become popular in the Counter-Reformation. According to a 1549 letter of F. Balthasar Gago from Goa, it was the only book that Francis read or studied.[31] Francis reached Lisbon in June 1540 and, four days after his arrival, he and Rodrigues were summoned to a private audience with the King and the Queen.[32]
Francis Xavier devoted much of his life to missions in Asia, mainly in four centres: Malacca, Amboina and Ternate, Japan, and off-shore China. His growing information about new places indicated to him that he had to go to what he understood were centres of influence for the whole region. China loomed large from his days in India. Japan was particularly attractive because of its culture. For him, these areas were interconnected; they could not be evangelised separately.[33]
Goa and India
  Saint Francis Xavier preaching in Goa (1610), by André Reinoso
Francis Xavier left Lisbon on 7 April 1541, his thirty-fifth birthday, along with two other Jesuits and the new viceroy Martim Afonso de Sousa, on board the Santiago.[34] As he departed, Francis was given a brief from the pope appointing him apostolic nuncio to the East.[28] From August until March 1542 he remained in Portuguese Mozambique, and arrived in Goa, then capital of Portuguese India, on 6 May 1542, thirteen months after leaving Lisbon.
The Portuguese, following quickly on the great voyages of discovery, had established themselves at Goa thirty years earlier. Francis's primary mission, as ordered by King John III, was to restore Christianity among the Portuguese settlers. According to Teotonio R. DeSouza, recent critical accounts indicate that apart from the posted civil servants, "the great majority of those who were dispatched as 'discoverers' were the riff-raff of Portuguese society, picked up from Portuguese jails."[35] Nor did the soldiers, sailors, or merchants come to do missionary work, and Imperial policy permitted the outflow of disaffected nobility. Many of the arrivals formed liaisons with local women and adopted Indian culture. Missionaries often wrote against the "scandalous and undisciplined" behaviour of their fellow Christians.[36]
The Christian population had churches, clergy, and a bishop, but there were few preachers and no priests beyond the walls of Goa. The Velliapura family of Velim, Goa, of the St Thomas Christians sect, welcomed the missionaries. Xavier decided that he must begin by instructing the Portuguese themselves, and gave much of his time to the teaching of children. The first five months he spent in preaching and ministering to the sick in the hospitals.[37] After that, he walked through the streets ringing a bell to summon the children and servants to catechism.[38] He was invited to head Saint Paul's College, a pioneer seminary for the education of secular priests, which became the first Jesuit headquarters in Asia.[39]
  Conversion of the Paravars by Francis Xavier in South India, in a 19th-century colored lithograph
Xavier soon learned that along the Pearl Fishery Coast, which extends from Cape Comorin on the southern tip of India to the island of Mannar, off Ceylon (Sri Lanka), there was a Jāti of people called Paravas. Many of them had been baptised ten years before, merely to please the Portuguese who had helped them against the Moors, but remained uninstructed in the faith. Accompanied by several native clerics from the seminary at Goa, he set sail for Cape Comorin in October 1542. He taught those who had already been baptised, and preached to those who weren't. His efforts with the high-caste Brahmins remained unavailing.[38]
He devoted almost three years to the work of preaching to the people of southern India and Ceylon, converting many. He built nearly 40 churches along the coast, including St. Stephen's Church, Kombuthurai, mentioned in his letters dated 1544.
During this time, he was able to visit the tomb of Thomas the Apostle in Mylapore (now part of Madras/Chennai then in Portuguese India).[28] He set his sights eastward in 1545 and planned a missionary journey to Makassar on the island of Celebes (today's Indonesia).
As the first Jesuit in India, Francis had difficulty achieving much success in his missionary trips. His successors, such as de Nobili, Matteo Ricci, and Beschi, attempted to convert the noblemen first as a means to influence more people, while Francis had initially interacted most with the lower classes; (later though, in Japan, Francis changed tack by paying tribute to the Emperor and seeking an audience with him).[40]
  Voyages of Saint Francis Xavier
Southeast Asia
In the spring of 1545 Xavier started for Portuguese Malacca. He laboured there for the last months of that year. About January 1546, Xavier left Malacca for the Maluku Islands, where the Portuguese had some settlements. For a year and a half he preached the Gospel there. He went first to Ambon Island, where he stayed until mid-June. He then visited other Maluku Islands, including Ternate, Baranura, and Morotai.[41] Shortly after Easter 1547, he returned to Ambon Island; a few months later he returned to Malacca.
Japan
Main article: History of Roman Catholicism in Japan
In Malacca in December 1547, Francis Xavier met a Japanese man named Anjirō.[41] Anjirō had heard of Francis in 1545 and had travelled from Kagoshima to Malacca to meet him. Having been charged with murder, Anjirō had fled Japan. He told Francis extensively about his former life, and the customs and culture of his homeland.  Anjirō became the first Japanese Christian and adopted the name of 'Paulo de Santa Fé'.  He later helped Xavier as a mediator and interpreter for the mission to Japan that now seemed much more possible.
In January 1548 Francis returned to Goa to attend to his responsibilities as superior of the mission there.[42] The next 15 months were occupied with various journeys and administrative measures. He left Goa on 15 April 1549, stopped at Malacca, and visited Canton. He was accompanied by Anjiro, two other Japanese men, Father Cosme de Torrès and Brother Juan Fernández. He had taken with him presents for the "King of Japan" since he was intending to introduce himself as the Apostolic Nuncio.
Europeans had already come to Japan: the Portuguese had landed in 1543 on the island of Tanegashima, where they introduced matchlock firearms to Japan.[43]
From Amboina, he wrote to his companions in Europe: "I asked a Portuguese merchant, ... who had been for many days in Anjirō's country of Japan, to give me ... some information on that land and its people from what he had seen and heard. ...All the Portuguese merchants coming from Japan tell me that if I go there I shall do great service for God our Lord, more than with the pagans of India, for they are a very reasonable people. (To His Companions Residing in Rome, From Cochin, 20 January 1548, no. 18, p. 178).[33]
Francis Xavier reached Japan on 27 July 1549, with Anjiro and three other Jesuits, but he was not permitted to enter any port his ship arrived at until 15 August,[43] when he went ashore at Kagoshima, the principal port of Satsuma Province on the island of Kyūshū. As a representative of the Portuguese king, he was received in a friendly manner. Shimazu Takahisa (1514–1571), daimyō of Satsuma, gave a friendly reception to Francis on 29 September 1549, but in the following year he forbade the conversion of his subjects to Christianity under penalty of death; Christians in Kagoshima could not be given any catechism in the following years. The Portuguese missionary Pedro de Alcáçova would later write in 1554:
 In Cangoxima, the first place Father Master Francisco stopped at, there were a good number of Christians, although there was no one there to teach them; the shortage of labourers prevented the whole kingdom from becoming Christian.[43] 
He was hosted by Anjirō's family until October 1550.[21] From October to December 1550, he resided in Yamaguchi. Shortly before Christmas, he left for Kyoto but failed to meet with the Emperor. He returned to Yamaguchi in March 1551, where the daimyo of the province gave him permission to preach. However, lacking fluency in the Japanese language, he had to limit himself to reading aloud the translation of a catechism.[citation needed]
Francis was the first Jesuit to go to Japan as a missionary.[44] He brought with him paintings of the Madonna and the Madonna and Child. These paintings were used to help teach the Japanese about Christianity. There was a huge language barrier as Japanese was unlike other languages the missionaries had previously encountered. For a long time Francis struggled to learn the language.[citation needed]
Having learned that evangelical poverty did not have the appeal in Japan that it had in Europe and in India, he decided to change his approach. Hearing after a time that a Portuguese ship had arrived at a port in the province of Bungo in Kyushu and that the prince there would like to see him, Xavier now set out southward. The Jesuit, in a fine cassock, surplice, and stole, was attended by thirty gentlemen and as many servants, all in their best clothes. Five of them bore on cushions valuable articles, including a portrait of Our Lady and a pair of velvet slippers, these not gifts for the prince, but solemn offerings to Xavier, to impress the onlookers with his eminence. Handsomely dressed, with his companions acting as attendants, he presented himself before Oshindono, the ruler of Nagate, and as a representative of the great kingdom of Portugal, offered him letters and presents: a musical instrument, a watch, and other attractive objects which had been given him by the authorities in India for the emperor.[38]
For forty-five years the Jesuits were the only missionaries in Asia, but the Franciscans also began proselytising in Asia as well. Christian missionaries were later forced into exile, along with their assistants. Some were able to stay behind, however Christianity was then kept underground so as to not be persecuted.[45]
The Japanese people were not easily converted; many of the people were already Buddhist or Shinto. Francis tried to combat the disposition of some of the Japanese that a God who had created everything, including evil, could not be good. The concept of Hell was also a struggle; the Japanese were bothered by the idea of their ancestors living in Hell. Despite Francis's different religion, he felt that they were good people, much like Europeans, and could be converted.[46][47][48]
Xavier was welcomed by the Shingon monks since he used the word Dainichi for the Christian God; attempting to adapt the concept to local traditions. As Xavier learned more about the religious nuances of the word, he changed to Deusu[21] from the Latin and Portuguese Deus. The monks later realised that Xavier was preaching a rival religion and grew more aggressive towards his attempts at conversion.
  The Altar of St. Francis Xavier Parish in Nasugbu, Batangas, Philippines. Saint Francis is the principal patron of the town, together with Our Lady of Escalera.
With the passage of time, his sojourn in Japan could be considered somewhat fruitful as attested by congregations established in Hirado, Yamaguchi, and Bungo. Xavier worked for more than two years in Japan and saw his successor-Jesuits established. He then decided to return to India. Historians debate the exact path he returned by, but from evidence attributed to the captain of his ship, he may have travelled through Tanegeshima and Minato, and avoided Kagoshima because of the hostility of the daimyo.[43]
China
During his trip from Japan back to India, a tempest forced him to stop on an island near Guangzhou, Guangdong, China, where he met Diogo Pereira, a rich merchant and an old friend from Cochin.  Pereira showed him a letter from Portuguese prisoners in Guangzhou, asking for a Portuguese ambassador to speak to the Chinese Emperor on their behalf. Later during the voyage, he stopped at Malacca on 27 December 1551, and was back in Goa by January 1552.[citation needed]
On 17 April he set sail with Diogo Pereira on the Santa Cruz for China. He planned to introduce himself as Apostolic Nuncio and Pereira as ambassador of the King of Portugal. But then he realized that he had forgotten his testimonial letters as an Apostolic Nuncio. Back in Malacca, he was confronted by the captain Álvaro de Ataíde da Gama who now had total control over the harbour. The captain refused to recognize his title of Nuncio, asked Pereira to resign from his title of ambassador, named a new crew for the ship, and demanded the gifts for the Chinese Emperor be left in Malacca.[citation needed]
In late August 1552, the Santa Cruz reached the Chinese island of Shangchuan, 14 km away from the southern coast of mainland China, near Taishan, Guangdong, 200 km south-west of what later became Hong Kong. At this time, he was accompanied only by a Jesuit student, Álvaro Ferreira, a Chinese man called António, and a Malabar servant called Christopher. Around mid-November he sent a letter saying that a man had agreed to take him to the mainland in exchange for a large sum of money. Having sent back Álvaro Ferreira, he remained alone with António. He died from a fever at Shangchuan, Taishan, China, on 3 December 1552, while he was waiting for a boat that would take him to mainland China.[citation needed]
Burials and relics
  Casket of Saint Francis Xavier in the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Goa, India
Xavier was first buried on a beach at Shangchuan Island, Taishan, Guangdong. His body was taken from the island in February 1553 and temporarily buried in St. Paul's church in Portuguese Malacca on 22 March 1553. An open grave in the church now marks the place of Xavier's burial. Pereira came back from Goa, removed the corpse shortly after 15 April 1553, and moved it to his house. On 11 December 1553, Xavier's body was shipped to Goa.
The body is now in the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Goa, where it was placed in a glass container encased in a silver casket on 2 December 1637.[49] This casket, constructed by Goan silversmiths between 1636 and 1637, was an exemplary blend of Italian and Indian aesthetic sensibilities. There are 32 silver plates on all the four sides of the casket depicting different episodes from the life of the Xavier:
Francis lies on the ground with his arms and legs tied, but the cords break miraculously.
Francis kisses the ulcer of a patient in a Venetian hospital.
He is visited by Jerom as he lies ailing in the hospital of Vicenza.
A vision about his future apostolate.
A vision about his sister's prophecy about his fate.
He saves the secretary of the Portuguese Ambassador while crossing the Alps.
He lifts a sick man who dies after receiving communion but freed from fever.
He baptises in Travancore.
He resuscitates a boy who died in a well at Cape Comorin.
He cures miraculously a man full of sores.
He drives away the Badagas in Travancore.
He resuscitates three persons: a man who was buried at Coulao; a boy about to be buried at Multao; and a child.
He takes money from his empty pockets and gives to a Portuguese at Malyapore.
A miraculous cure.
A crab restores his crucifix which had fallen into the sea.
He preaches in the island of Moro.
He preaches in the sea of Malacca and announces the victory against the enemies.
He converts a Portuguese soldier.
He helps the dying Vicar of Malacca.
Francis kneels down and on his shoulders there rests a child whom he restores to health.
He goes from Amanguchi to Macao walking.
He cures a dumb and paralytic man in Amanguchi.
He cures a deaf Japanese person.
He prays in the ship during a storm.
He baptises three kings in Cochin.
He cures a religious in the college of St. Paul.
Due to the lack of water, he sweetens the sea water during a voyage.
The agony of Francis at Sancian.
After his death he is seen by a lady according to his promise.
The body dressed in sacerdotal vestments is exposed for public veneration.
Francis levitates as he distributes communion in the College of St. Paul.
The body is placed in a niche at Chaul with lighted candles. On the top of this casket there is a cross with two angels. One is holding a burning heart and the other a legend which says, "Satis est Domine, satis est." (It's enough Lord, it's enough)
The right forearm, which Xavier used to bless and baptise his converts, was detached by Superior General Claudio Acquaviva in 1614. It has been displayed since in a silver reliquary at the main Jesuit church in Rome, Il Gesù.[50]
.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{display:flex;flex-direction:column}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{display:flex;flex-direction:row;clear:left;flex-wrap:wrap;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{margin:1px;float:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .theader{clear:both;font-weight:bold;text-align:center;align-self:center;background-color:transparent;width:100%}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbcaption{background-color:transparent}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-left{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-right{text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-center{text-align:center}@media all and (max-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;max-width:none!important;align-items:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{justify-content:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{float:none!important;max-width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle .thumbcaption{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow>.thumbcaption{text-align:center}}Saint Francis Xavier's humerus at St. Joseph's Church, Macao (2008)Sign accompanying Saint Francis Xavier's humerus
Another of Xavier's arm bones was brought to Macau where it was kept in a silver reliquary. The relic was destined for Japan but religious persecution there persuaded the church to keep it in Macau's Cathedral of St. Paul. It was subsequently moved to St. Joseph's and in 1978 to the Chapel of St. Francis Xavier on Coloane Island. More recently the relic was moved to St. Joseph's Church.[51]
In 2006, on the 500th anniversary of his birth, the Xavier Tomb Monument and Chapel on the Shangchuan Island, in ruins after years of neglect under communist rule in China, was restored with support from the alumni of Wah Yan College, a Jesuit high school in Hong Kong.
From December 2017 to February 2018, Catholic Christian Outreach (CCO) in cooperation with the Jesuits, brought Xavier's right forearm to tour throughout Canada. The faithful, especially university students participating with CCO at Rise Up 2017 in Ottawa, venerated the relics. The tour continued to every city where CCO and/or the Jesuits are present in Canada: Quebec City, St. John's, Halifax, St. Francis Xavier University in Antigonish (neither CCO nor the Jesuits are present here), Kingston, Toronto, Winnipeg, Saskatoon, Regina, Calgary, Vancouver, Victoria, and Montreal before returning to Ottawa.[52] The relic was then returned to Rome with a Mass of Thanksgiving celebrated by Archbishop Terrence Prendergast at the Church of the Gesu.
Veneration
Beatification and canonization
Francis Xavier was beatified by Paul V on 25 October 1619, and was canonized by Gregory XV on 12 March[53] 1622, at the same time as Ignatius Loyola.[54] Pius XI proclaimed him the "Patron of Catholic Missions".[55] His feast day is 3 December.[56]
Pilgrimage centres
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (March 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  Stained glass church window in Béthanie, Hong Kong, of St Francis Xavier baptizing a Chinese man
Goa
Saint Francis Xavier's relics are kept in a silver casket, elevated inside the Bom Jesus Basilica and are exposed (being brought to ground level) generally every ten years, but this is discretionary. The sacred relics went on display starting on 22 November 2014 at the XVII Solemn Exposition. The display closed on 4 January 2015. The previous exposition, the sixteenth, was held from 21 November 2004 to 2 January 2005.
Relics of Saint Francis Xavier are also found in the Espirito Santo (Holy Spirit) Church, Margão, in Sanv Fransiku Xavierachi Igorz (Church of St. Francis Xavier), Batpal, Canacona, Goa, and at St. Francis Xavier Chapel, Portais, Panjim.
Other places
Other pilgrimage centres include Xavier's birthplace in Navarra, Church of Il Gesu, Rome, Malacca (where he was buried for 2 years, before being brought to Goa), Sancian (place of death), and more.
Xavier is a major venerated saint in both Sonora and the neighbouring U.S. state of Arizona. In Magdalena de Kino in Sonora, Mexico, in the Church of Santa María Magdalena, there is reclining statue of San Francisco Xavier brought by pioneer Jesuit missionary Padre Eusebio Kino in the early 18th century. The statue is said to be miraculous and is the object of pilgrimage for many in the region. Also Mission San Xavier del Bac is a pilgrimage site. The mission is an active parish church ministering to the people of the San Xavier District, Tohono O'odham Nation, and nearby Tucson, Arizona.
Novena of grace
Further information: Novena of Grace
  Fumaroles at Mt. Unzen, Japan
The Novena of Grace is a popular devotion to Francis Xavier, typically prayed either on the nine days before 3 December, or on 4 March through 12 March (the anniversary of Pope Gregory XV's canonisation of Xavier in 1622). It began with the Italian Jesuit missionary Marcello Mastrilli. Before he could travel to the Far East, Mastrilli was gravely injured in a freak accident after a festive celebration dedicated to the Immaculate Conception in Naples. Delirious and on the verge of death, Mastrilli saw Xavier, who he later said asked him to choose between travelling or death by holding the respective symbols, to which Mastrilli answered, "I choose that which God wills."[57] Upon regaining his health, Mastrilli made his way via Goa and the Philippines to Satsuma, Japan. The Tokugawa shogunate beheaded the missionary in October 1637, after undergoing three days of tortures involving the volcanic sulphurous fumes from Mt. Unzen, known as the Hell mouth or "pit" that had supposedly caused an earlier missionary to renounce his faith.[58]
Legacy
  The Vision of St. Francis Xavier, by Giovanni Battista Gaulli
Francis Xavier is noteworthy for his missionary work, both as organiser and as pioneer, reputed to have converted more people than anyone else has done since Paul the Apostle. Pope Benedict XVI said of both Ignatius of Loyola and Francis Xavier: "not only their history which was interwoven for many years from Paris and Rome, but a unique desire – a unique passion, it could be said – moved and sustained them through different human events: the passion to give to God-Trinity a glory always greater and to work for the proclamation of the Gospel of Christ to the peoples who had been ignored."[55] By consulting with the earlier ancient Christians of St. Thomas in India, Xavier developed Jesuit missionary methods. His success also spurred many Europeans to join the order, as well as become missionaries throughout the world. His personal efforts most affected Christians in India and the East Indies (Indonesia, Malaysia, Timor). India still has numerous Jesuit missions, and many more schools. Xavier also worked to propagate Christianity in China and Japan. However, following the persecutions of Toyotomi Hideyoshi and the subsequent closing of Japan to foreigners, the Christians of Japan were forced to go underground to develop an independent Christian culture. Likewise, while Xavier inspired many missionaries to China, Chinese Christians also were forced underground and developed their own Christian culture.
A small chapel designed by Achille-Antoine Hermitte was completed in 1869 over Xavier's death place on Shangchuan Island, Canton.
It was damaged and restored several times, with the most recent restoration in 2006 to celebrate the 500th anniversary of his birth.[59] 
Francis Xavier is the patron saint of his native Navarre, which celebrates his feast day on 3 December as a government holiday. In addition to Roman Catholic Masses remembering Xavier on that day (now known as the Day of Navarra), celebrations in the surrounding weeks honour the region's cultural heritage. Furthermore, in the 1940s, devoted Catholics instituted the Javierada, an annual day-long pilgrimage (often on foot) from the capital at Pamplona to Xavier, where the Jesuits have built a basilica and museum and restored his family's castle.
Namesake
  Statue of Santo Fransiskus Xaverius, at Jesuit Gereja Katedral Santa Perawan Maria Diangkat Ke Surga, in Jakarta, Indonesia
  Statue of Saint Francis Xavier, at St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, in Superior, Wisconsin, United States
  Effigy of Saint Francis Xavier in the Monument to the Discoveries in Lisbon, Portugal
As the foremost saint from Navarre and one of the main Jesuit saints, he is much venerated in Spain and the Hispanic countries where Francisco Javier or Javier are common male given names.[60] The alternative spelling Xavier is also popular in the Basque Country, Portugal, Catalonia, Brazil, France, Belgium, and southern Italy. In India, the spelling Xavier is almost always used, and the name is quite common among Christians, especially in Goa and the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka. The names Francisco Xavier, António Xavier, João Xavier, Caetano Xavier, Domingos Xavier et cetera, were very common till quite recently in Goa. Fransiskus Xaverius is commonly used as a name for Indonesian Catholics, usually abbreviated as FX. In Austria and Bavaria the name is spelled as Xaver (pronounced (ˈk͡saːfɐ)) and often used in addition to Francis as Franz-Xaver (frant͡sˈk͡saːfɐ). Many Catalan men are named for him, often using the two-name combination Francesc Xavier. In English speaking countries, "Xavier" until recently was likely to follow "Francis"; in the 2000s, however, "Xavier" by itself has become more popular than "Francis", and since 2001 is now one of the hundred most common male baby names in the U.S.A.[61] Furthermore, the Sevier family name, possibly most famous in the United States for John Sevier, originated from the name Xavier.
Many churches all over the world, often founded by Jesuits, have been named in honour of Xavier. The many in the United States include the historic St. Francis Xavier Shrine at Warwick, Maryland (founded 1720), and the Basilica of St. Francis Xavier in Dyersville, Iowa. There are also the American educational teaching order Xaverian Brothers, and the Mission San Xavier del Bac in Tucson, Arizona (founded in 1692, and known for its Spanish Colonial architecture).
In art
Rubens painted St Francis Xavier Raising the Dead for a Jesuit church in Antwerp, in which he depicted one of St Francis's many miracles.[62] The Charles Bridge in Prague, Czech Republic, features a statue of Francis Xavier.
In front of Oita Station of Oita City, in Oita Prefecture, previously known as Bungo Province in Japan, there is one statue of Francis Xavier.
The monument Padrão dos Descobrimentos in Belém (Lisbon), Portugal, features a Francis Xavier image.
Music
Marc-Antoine Charpentier, In honorem Sancti Xaverij canticum H 355, for soloists, chorus, flutes, strings and continuo (1688 ?)
Marc-Antoine Charpentier, Canticum de Sto Xavierio  H 355 a, for soloists, chorus, flutes, oboes, strings and continuo 1690.
Missionary
Shortly before leaving for the East, Xavier issued a famous instruction to Father Gaspar Barazeuz who was leaving to go to Ormuz (a kingdom on an island in the Persian Gulf, formerly attached to the Empire of Persia, now part of Iran), that he should mix with sinners:
 And if you wish to bring forth much fruit, both for yourselves and for your neighbours, and to live consoled, converse with sinners, making them unburden themselves to you. These are the living books by which you are to study, both for your preaching and for your own consolation. I do not say that you should not on occasion read written books... to support what you say against vices with authorities from the Holy Scriptures and examples from the lives of the saints.[31]
Modern scholars place the number of people converted to Christianity by Francis Xavier at around 30,000. And while some of Xavier's methods have been since criticised (he forced converts to take Portuguese names and dress in Western clothes, approved the persecution of the Eastern Church, and used the Goa government as a missionary tool), he has also earned praise. He insisted that missionaries adapt to many of the customs, and most certainly the language, of the culture they wish to evangelise. And unlike later missionaries, Xavier supported an educated native clergy. Though for a time it seemed his work in Japan was subsequently destroyed by persecution, Protestant missionaries three centuries later discovered that approximately 100,000 Christians still practised in the Nagasaki area.[63]
Francis Xavier's work initiated permanent change in eastern Indonesia, and he was known as the "Apostle of the Indies" where in 1546–1547 he worked in the Maluku Islands among the people of Ambon, Ternate, and Morotai (or Moro), and laid the foundations for a permanent mission. After he left the Maluku Islands, others carried on his work and by the 1560s there were 10,000 Roman Catholics in the area, mostly on Ambon. By the 1590s there were 50,000 to 60,000.[64]
Role in the Goa Inquisition
The role of Francis Xavier in the Goa Inquisition is controversial[citation needed]. He had written to King João III of Portugal in 1546, encouraging him to dispatch the Inquisition to Goa. Francis Xavier died in 1552 without living to see the horrors of the Goa Inquisition, but some historians believe that he was aware of the Portuguese Inquisition's brutality. In an interview to an Indian newspaper, historian Teotónio de Souza stated that Francis Xavier and Simão Rodrigues, another founder-member of the Society of Jesus, were together in Lisbon before Francis left for India. Both were asked to assist spiritually the prisoners of the Inquisition and were present at the very first auto-da-fé celebrated in Portugal in September 1540, at which 23 were absolved and two were condemned to be burnt, including a French cleric. Hence, he believes that Xavier was aware of the brutality of the Inquisition.[65]
See also
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Saints portal
Catholicism in China
Catholicism in Indonesia
Christianity in China
Christianity in Indonesia
Goa Inquisition
History of Roman Catholicism in Japan
Jesuit China missions
List of Westerners who visited Japan before 1868
Mission San Xavier del Bac — San Xavier District, Tohono O'odham Nation, Arizona
Xaverian Brothers — religious order in America
Xavier High School (New York City)
Xavier School — San Juan City, Philippines
Xavier University - Ateneo de Cagayan, Cagayan de Oro City, Philippines
St. Francis Xavier University - Antigonish, Nova Scotia, Canada
St. Xavier's Institution - Georgetown, Penang, Malaysia
Saint Francis Xavier, patron saint archive
Footnotes
^ "Holy Men and Holy Women" (PDF). Churchofengland.org..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Notable Lutheran Saints". Resurrectionpeople.org.
^ Attwater (1965), p. 141.
^ Rao, R.P (1963). Portuguese Rule in Goa: 1510-1961. Asia Publishing House. p. 43.
^ "Goa Inquisition". The New Indian Express. Retrieved 26 June 2017.
^ Coleridge, Henry James (1872). The Life and Letters of St. Francis Xavier. Burns and Oates.
^ De Rosa 2006, pp. 90.
^ Pope Pius XI (14 December 1927). "Apostolicorum in Missionibus". Papal Encyclicals Online. Retrieved 1 November 2014.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 17.
^ euskara.euskadi.net (in French) François Xavier naquit au sud de cette démarcation à la limite de l'Aragon (1506) et vécut dans son château natal de Xavier jusqu'à l'âge de 19 ans. C'est là qu'il apprit ses deux premières langues: d'une part le basque dans sa famille bascophone (de la région du Baztan et de la Basse-Navarre) et avec ceux qui arrivaient des provinces voisines encore bascophones au château et d'autre part la langue romane de son entourage géographique immédiat. Ce qui explique pourquoi le missionraire navarrais désignera l'euskara comme "sa langue naturelle bizcayenne" (1544), terme très étendu à cette époque.
^ Navarro-Aragonese, called Romance at this time was also a language spoken in the surrounding area. Romance languages are the result of the changes suffered by spoken Latin through the centuries. Hispanic Romance languages were born in the North of the Peninsula (Galician, Leonese, Castilian, Navarro-Aragonese, Catalonian).
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 18.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 16.
^ Sagredo Garde, Iñaki. Navarra. Castillos que defendieron el Reino. Pamiela, 2006. ISBN 84-7681-477-1
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 28.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 21.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 33.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 40.
^ a b c Brodrick 1952, p. 41.
^ a b De Rosa 2006, p. 93.
^ a b c Butler, Rev. Alban. "St Francis Xavier, Confessor, Apostle of the Indies". The Lives of the Fathers, Martyrs and Other Principal Saints, Vol. III. ewtn.com. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ De Rosa 2006, p. 95.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 47.
^ De Rosa 2006, p. 37.
^ Lach, Donald Frederick (1994). Asia in the making of Europe: A century of wonder. The literary arts. The scholarly disciplines (University of Chicago Press, 1994 ed.). ISBN 978-0-226-46733-7. Retrieved 6 December 2010.
^ De Rosa 2006, p. 96.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 77.
^ a b c "Wintz O.F.M., Jack, "St. Francis Xavier: Great Missionary to the Orient", Franciscan Media, November 29, 2006". americancatholic.org. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 78.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 96.
^ a b Ante Kadič. St. Francis Xavier and Marko Marulić. The Slavic and East European Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1 (Spring, 1961), pp. 12–18
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 85.
^ a b "Zuloaga SJ, Ismael G., "Francis Xavier, Founder of the Jesuit Mission in Asia", Jesuit Asia Pacific Conference". Archived from the original on 13 April 2013.
^ Brodrick 1952, p. 100.
^ "DeSouza, Teotonio R., "The Portuguese in Goa", Universidade Lusófona" (PDF). recil.grupolusofona.pt. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ de Mendonça, D. (2002). Conversions and Citizenry: Goa Under Portugal, 1510-1610. Concept Publishing Company. ISBN 9788170229605. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ "Astrain, Antonio. "St. Francis Xavier." The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 6. New York: Robert Appleton Company, 1909. 22 Mar. 2015". newadvent.org. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ a b c ""Saint Francis Xavier Apostle of the Indies And Japan", Lives of Saints, John J. Crawley &amp; Co., Inc". ewtn.com. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Goa and Daman, Archdiocese of. "St Paul's College &amp; Rachol Seminary". website. Archdiocese of Goa and Daman. Retrieved 3 May 2011.
^ Duignan, Peter. "Early Jesuit Missionaries: A Suggestion for Further Study." American Anthropologist, New Series, Vol. 60, No. 4 (August 1958). pp. 725–732. Blackwell Publishing on behalf of the American Anthropological Association. Retrieved 30 November 2008.
^ a b "Astrain, Antonio. "St. Francis Xavier." The Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 6. New York: Robert Appleton Company, 1909. 7 Mar. 2013". newadvent.org. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Wintz, Jack (December 2006). "Four Great Spanish Saints". St. Anthony Messenger Magazine Online. American Catholic. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ a b c d Diego Pacheco. "Xavier and Tanegashima." Monumenta Nipponica, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Winter, 1974), pp. 477–480
^ Shusaku Endo (1969), Silence, p. vii, Translator's Preface, William Johnston, Taplinger Publishing Company, New York
^ Vlam, Grace A. H. (1979). "The Portrait of S. Francis Xavier in Kobe". Zeitschrift für Kunstgeschichte. Deutscher Kunstverlag. 42. Bd. (H. 1): 48–60. doi:10.2307/1482014. ISSN 0044-2992. JSTOR 1482014.
^ Ellis, Robert Richmond (2003). ""The Best Thus Far Discovered": The Japanese in the Letters of Francisco Xavier". Hispanic Review. University of Pennsylvania Press. 71 (2): 155–69. doi:10.2307/3247185. ISSN 1553-0639. JSTOR 3247185.
^ Xavier, Francis. The Letters and Instructions of Francis Xavier. Translated by M. Joseph Costellos, S.J. St Louis: The Institute of Jesuit Sources, 1992
^ "St. Francis Xavier: Letter from Japan, to the Society of Jesus in Europe, 1552". fordham.edu. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Cappella di san Francesco Saverio Archived 17 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine, at the official website of Il Gesù. (in Italian)
^ "Saint's right forearm will arrive in Quebec this week as part of Canadian tour". CTV Montreal. 1 January 2018. Retrieved 2 January 2018.
^ Chapel of St. Francis Xavier Archived 14 March 2013 at the Wayback Machine, at the official website of the Macau Government Tourist Office.
^ "St. FX Relic - CCO". CCO. Retrieved 24 August 2018.
^ Jesuit prayer-book "Srce Isusovo Spasenje naše" ("Heart of Jesus our Salvation"), Zagreb, 1946, p. 425
^ For the most recent study of Francis Xavier's canonization process, see Franco Mormando, "The Making of the Second Jesuit Saint: The Campaign for the Canonization of Francis Xavier, 1555–1622" in Francis Xavier and the Jesuit Missions in the Far East, ed. F. Mormando, Chestnut Hill, MA: The Jesuit Institute, Boston College, 2006, pp. 9–22.
^ a b "Address Of Benedic XVI To The Fathers And Brothers Of The Society Of Jesus, April 22, 2006". vatican.va. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Attwater (1965), pp. 141–142.
^ "Japanese Sketches" in The Month, Volume 11 (1869) p.241
^ Brockey, Liam Matthew (2007). Journey to the East: The Jesuit Mission to China, 1579-1724. ISBN 978-0-674-02448-9.
^ Davies, Stephen; 戴偉思 (2016), "Achille-Antoine Hermitte's Surviving Building / 阿基里‧ 安當‧ 埃爾米特的倖存建築", Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society Hong Kong Branch, Royal Asiatic Society Hong Kong Branch, 56: 92–110, JSTOR jroyaaisasocihkb.56.92
^ The most frequent names, simple and exact for the national total and exact for the province of residence, Instituto Nacional de Estadística. Excel spreadsheet format. Javier is the 10th most popular complete name for males, Francisco Javier, the 18th. Together, Javier becomes the 8th most frequent name for males.
^ "Popular Baby Names". ssa.gov. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Rubens, William Unger, S. R. K. "St. Francis Xavier Raising the Dead". The American Art Review, Vol. 1, No. 2 (Dec. 1879), p. 66
^ "Francis Xavier - Christian History &amp; Biography - ChristianityTodayLibrary.com". ctlibrary.com. Retrieved 6 April 2015.
^ Ricklefs, M.C. (1993). A History of Modern Indonesia Since c.1300, 2nd Edition. London: MacMillan. p. 25. ISBN 978-0-333-57689-2.
^ "Xavier was aware of the brutality of the Inquisition". deccanherald.com. 27 April 2010. Retrieved 27 October 2014.
References
This article incorporates material from the Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religion
Attwater, Donald. (1965) A Dictionary of Saints. Penguin Books, Middlesex, England. Reprint: 1981.
Brodrick, James (1952). Saint Francis Xavier (1506–1552). London: Burns, Oates &amp; Washbourne Ltd. p. 558.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Coleridge, Henry James (1872) [1876]. The life and letters of St. Francis Xavier. 1. London: Burns and Oates. Archived from the original on 2008. Retrieved 4 November 2014.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
De Rosa, Giuseppe (2006). Gesuiti (in Italian). Elledici. p. 148. ISBN 9788801034400.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
George M. Moraes (1952): St. Francis Xavier, Apostolic Nuncio (1542-52), Bombay, Konkan Institute of Arts and Science, 35p.
Jou, Albert (1984). The Saint on a Mission. Anand Press, Anand, India.
Pinch, William R., "The Corpse and Cult of St. Francis Xavier, 1552–1623", in Mathew N. Schmalz and Peter Gottschalk ed. Engaging South Asian Religions: Boundaries, Appropriations, and Resistances (New York, State University of New York Press, 2011)
Further reading
Andrew Dickson White (1896 first edition. A classic work constantly reprinted) A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom, See chapter 13, part 2, Growth of Legends of Healing: the life of Saint Francis Xavier as a typical example.
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Francis Xavier.
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Francis Xavier
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article  Xavier, Francisco de.
Official website of Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa The Shrine of Saint Francis Xavier
Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa The Shrine of Saint Francis Xavier
The Life of St. Francis Xavier
The life and letters of St. Francis Xavier Francis Xavier, Saint, 1506–1552 Coleridge, Henry James, 1822–1893 London: Burns and Oates, (1872)
Saint François Xavier (in French)
Picture of Shangchuan island. The chapel marks the location of his death
The Miracles of St Francis Xavier by John Hardon, SJ
Brief History of Saint Francis Xavier
Colonnade Statue St Peter's Square
Works by or about Francis Xavier at Internet Archive
Works by Francis Xavier at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
vteSociety of JesusHistory
Protestant Reformation
Counter-Reformation
Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola
Ad maiorem Dei gloriam
Magis
Regimini militantis Ecclesiae
Exposcit debitum
Ratio Studiorum
Suppression of the Society of Jesus
List of Jesuits
Saints
José de Anchieta
Modeste Andlauer
Edmund Arrowsmith
Robert Bellarmine
John Berchmans
Jacques Berthieu
Andrew Bobola
Francis Borgia
John de Brebeuf 
Alexander Briant
John de Britto 
Edmund Campion 
Peter Canisius 
Juan del Castillo
Noël Chabanel 
Peter Claver 
Claude de la Colombiere 
Anthony Daniel 
Paul Denn 
Philip Evans 
Peter Faber
Thomas Garnet 
Charles Garnier 
Aloysius Gonzaga 
Roque González de Santa Cruz 
John Soan de Goto
René Goupil 
Melchior Grodziecki 
Alberto Hurtado 
Rémy Isoré
Ignatius of Loyola 
Francis de Geronimo 
Isaac Jogues 
James Kisai 
Stanislaus Kostka
Jean de Lalande 
Gabriel Lalemant 
David Lewis
Lèon-Ignance Mangin
Paul Miki 
Henry Morse 
John Ogilvie 
Nicholas Owen 
Joseph Pignatelli 
Stephen Pongracz
Bernardino Realino 
John Francis Regis 
Alonso Rodriguez
Alphonsus Rodriguez 
José María Rubio 
Robert Southwell
André de Soveral
Henry Walpole 
Francis Xavier
Popes
Francis
Theology
Diego Laynez
Luis de Molina
Francisco Suárez
Jean Daniélou
Karl Rahner
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
Henri de Lubac
John Courtney Murray
Joseph Fitzmyer
List of Jesuit theologians
General
Bollandist
La Civiltà Cattolica
General Congregation
Superior General of the Society of Jesus
Pontifical Gregorian University
Pontifical Biblical Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Jesuit China missions
Jesuit missions in North America
List of Jesuit educational institutions
International Association of Jesuit Universities
Ignatian Pedagogical Paradigm
Related
Church of the Gesù
Madonna Della Strada
Saint-Pierre de Montmartre
Claudio Acquaviva
  Category
 Catholicism portal
vteHistory of ChristianityCenturies1st • 2nd • 3rd • 4th • 5th • 6th • 7th • 8th • 9th • 10th • 11th • 12th • 13th • 14th • 15th • 16th • 17th • 18th • 19th • 20th • 21stOrigins andApostolic Age
Background
Jesus
Baptism
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Holy Spirit
Apostles
Paul the Apostle
Council of Jerusalem
Split with Judaism
New Testament
Gospels
Acts
Pauline epistles
General epistles
Revelation
Ante-Niceneperiod
Diversity
Arianism
Donatism
Marcionism
Montanism
Canon development
Persecution
Church / Apostolic Fathers
Pope Clement I
Polycarp
Ignatius
Irenaeus
Justin Martyr
Tertullian
Origen
Late antiquity(Great Church)
Constantine
Constantinian shift
Monasticism
Councils
Nicaea I
Nicene Creed
Athanasius
Jerome
Augustine
Constantinople I
Ephesus I
Chalcedon
Biblical canon
EasternChristianity
Eastern Orthodoxy
Church of the East
Oriental Orthodoxy
Chrysostom
Nestorianism
Icons
Iconoclasm
Great Schism
Fall of Constantinople
Armenia
Georgia
Greece
Egypt
Syria
Ethiopia
Bulgaria
Ottoman Empire
Russia
America
Catholicism
Papacy
Development of primacy
Eastern Orthodox opposition
Lateran IV
Art patronage of Julius II
Leo X
Counter-Reformation
Trent
Art
Catholic Reformation
Jesuits
Xavier
Thomas More
Monastery dissolution
Wars
Mass rocks and priest holes
Guadalupe
Jansenists
Molinists
Neo-Scholasticism
Teresa
Modernism
Independent Catholics
Vatican I and Vatican II
Ecclesial community
Timeline
Middle Ages
Pelagianism
Gregory I
Celtic
Germanic
Scandinavian
Kievan Rus'
Investiture
Anselm
Abelard
Bernard
Bogomils
Bosnian
Cathars
Apostolic Brethren
Dulcinian
Crusades
Waldensians
Inquisition
Early Scholasticism
Christian mysticism
Dominic
Francis
Bonaventure
Aquinas
Five Ways
Wycliffe
Avignon
Papal Schism
Bohemian Reformation
Hus
Conciliarism
Synods
ReformationandProtestantism
Erasmus
Eucharist
Calvinist–Arminian debate
Arminianism
Wars
Resistance theories
Separation of church and state
Nicodemites
Hymnody of continental Europe
Formal and material principles
Literature
Protestant work ethic
Lutheranism
Luther
95 Theses
Diet of Worms
Theology
Bible
Melanchthon
Book of Concord
Orthodoxy
Scholasticism
Eucharist
Art
Calvinism
Zwingli
Calvin
Huguenots
Presbyterianism
Scotland
Knox
TULIP
Baptism
Law and Gospel
Dort
Three Forms of Unity
Westminster
Scholasticism
Metrical psalters
Anglicanism
Timeline
Henry VIII
Cranmer
Elizabethan
39 Articles
Puritans
Civil War
Church music
Book of Common Prayer
King James Version
Anabaptism
Theology
Radical Reformation
Grebel
Swiss Brethren
Müntzer
Martyrs' Synod
Menno Simons
Smyth
Martyrs Mirror
Ausbund
1640–1789
Revivalism
Missionaries
Baptists
Separation of church and state
Edicts of toleration
Congregationalism
First Great Awakening
Methodism
Millerism
Pietism
Fostering of early experimental science
Neo- and Old Lutherans
1789–present
Camp meeting
Holiness movement
Second Great Awakening
Restorationists
Jehovah's Witnesses
Mormonism
Seventh-day Adventist
Adventism
Oxford Movement
Laestadianism
Finnish Awakening
Christian existentialism
Third Great Awakening
Azusa Revival
Gospel music
Fundamentalist–Modernist controversy
Pacifism
Ecumenism
Five solae
Jesus movement
Pentecostalism
Charismatics
Liberation theology
Reformed epistemology
Fourth Great Awakening
Evangelical and Mainline Protestants
Christian right and left
Persecution by ISIL
Timeline
Missions
Martyrs
Theology
Eastern Orthodoxy
Oriental Orthodoxy
Protestantism
Catholicism
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
vteHistory of the Catholic ChurchGeneral
History of the Catholic Church
By country or region
Ecclesiastical history
Timeline
Papacy
Papal primacy
Catholic ecumenical councils
First seven
Catholic Bible
Biblical canon
Vulgate
History of the Roman Curia
Religious institutes
Christian monasticism
Catholic culture
Art
Role in civilization
Papal States
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Early Church(30–325/476)Origins andApostolic Age (30–100)
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Holy Spirit
Mary
John the Baptist
Apostles
Commissioning
Peter
John
Paul
Stephen
Council of Jerusalem
Split with Judaism
New Testament
Background
Gospels
Acts
Pauline epistles
General epistles
Revelation
Ante-Nicene period (100–325)
Persecution
Church Fathers
Apostolic Fathers
Pope Clement I
Polycarp
Ignatius
Irenaeus
Justin Martyr
Canon
Tertullian
Origen
Late antiquity(313–476)Great Church(180–451)Romanstate church(380-451)
Constantine the Great
Christianity
Arian controversy
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Old St. Peter's Basilica
First Council of Nicaea
Pope Sylvester I
First Council of Constantinople
Biblical canon
Jerome
Vulgate
Council of Ephesus
Council of Chalcedon
Early Middle Ages
Benedict of Nursia
Monasticism
Second Council of Constantinople
Pope Gregory I
Gregorian chant
Islamic conquests
Third Council of Constantinople
Saint Boniface
Byzantine Iconoclasm
Second Council of Nicaea
Charlemagne
Pope Leo III
Fourth Council of Constantinople
East–West Schism
High Middle Ages
Pope Urban II
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Northern
States
Military orders
Universities
Scholasticism
First Council of the Lateran
Second Council of the Lateran
Third Council of the Lateran
Pope Innocent III
Latin Empire
Francis of Assisi
Fourth Council of the Lateran
Inquisition
First Council of Lyon
Second Council of Lyon
Bernard of Clairvaux
Late Middle Ages
Thomas Aquinas
Pope Boniface VIII
Western Schism
Avignon Papacy
Pope Clement V
Council of Vienne
Knights Templar
Catherine of Siena
Pope Alexander VI
Age of Discovery
ReformationCatholic Reformation
Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Thomas More
Pope Leo X
Society of Jesus
Ignatius of Loyola
Francis Xavier
Dissolution of the Monasteries
Council of Trent
Pope Pius V
Tridentine Mass
Teresa of Ávila
John of the Cross
Peter Canisius
Philip Neri
Robert Bellarmine
Thirty Years' War
Baroque Period to theFrench Revolution
Pope Innocent XI
Pope Benedict XIV
Suppression of the Society of Jesus
Age of Enlightenment
Anti-clericalism
Pope Pius VI
Shimabara Rebellion
Edict of Nantes
Dechristianization of France during the French Revolution
19th century
Pope Pius VII
Pope Pius IX
Dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin Mary
Our Lady of La Salette
Our Lady of Lourdes
First Vatican Council
Papal infallibility
Pope Leo XIII
Mary of the Divine Heart
Prayer of Consecration to the Sacred Heart
Rerum novarum
20th century
Pope Pius X
Our Lady of Fátima
Persecutions of the Catholic Church and Pius XII
Pope Pius XII
Pope Pius XII Consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary
Dogma of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary
Lateran Treaty
Nazism
Pope John XXIII
Second Vatican Council
Pope Paul VI
Pope John Paul I
Mother Teresa
Communism
Pope John Paul II
World Youth Day
1995
21st century
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
World Youth Day
2000
2002
2005
2008
2011
2013
2016
2019
Pope Benedict XVI
Pope Francis
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteHistory of Catholic theologyKey figuresGeneral
History of the Catholic Church
Timeline
History of the papacy
Papal primacy
Ecumenical councils
Catholic Bible
Vulgate
Biblical canon
History of Christian theology
Early Church
Paul
Clement of Rome
First Epistle of Clement
Didache
Ignatius of Antioch
Polycarp
Epistle of Barnabas
The Shepherd of Hermas
Aristides of Athens
Justin Martyr
Epistle to Diognetus
Irenaeus
Montanism
Tertullian
Origen
Antipope Novatian
Cyprian
Constantine toPope Gregory I
Eusebius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Arianism
Pelagianism
Nestorianism
Monophysitism
Ephrem the Syrian
Hilary of Poitiers
Cyril of Jerusalem
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Ambrose
John Chrysostom
Jerome
Augustine of Hippo
John Cassian
Orosius
Cyril of Alexandria
Peter Chrysologus
Pope Leo I
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Pope Gregory I
Early Middle Ages
Isidore of Seville
John Climacus
Maximus the Confessor
Monothelitism
Ecthesis
Bede
John of Damascus
Iconoclasm
Transubstantiation dispute
Predestination disputes
Paulinus II of Aquileia
Alcuin
Benedict of Aniane
Rabanus Maurus
Paschasius Radbertus
John Scotus Eriugena
High Middle Ages
Roscellinus
Gregory of Narek
Berengar of Tours
Peter Damian
Anselm of Canterbury
Joachim of Fiore
Peter Abelard
Decretum Gratiani
Bernard of Clairvaux
Peter Lombard
Anselm of Laon
Hildegard of Bingen
Hugh of Saint Victor
Dominic de Guzmán
Robert Grosseteste
Francis of Assisi
Anthony of Padua
Beatrice of Nazareth
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Thomism
Roger Bacon
Mysticism and reforms
Ramon Llull
Duns Scotus
Dante Alighieri
William of Ockham
Richard Rolle
John of Ruusbroec
Catherine of Siena
Bridget of Sweden
Meister Eckhart
Johannes Tauler
Walter Hilton
The Cloud of Unknowing
Heinrich Seuse
Geert Groote
Devotio Moderna
Julian of Norwich
Thomas à Kempis
Nicholas of Cusa
Marsilio Ficino
Girolamo Savonarola
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
ReformationCounter-Reformation
Erasmus
Thomas Cajetan
Thomas More
John Fisher
Johann Eck
Francisco de Vitoria
Thomas of Villanova
Ignatius of Loyola
Francisco de Osuna
John of Ávila
Francis Xavier
Teresa of Ávila
Luis de León
John of the Cross
Peter Canisius
Luis de Molina (Molinism)
Robert Bellarmine
Francisco Suárez
Lawrence of Brindisi
Francis de Sales
Baroque period toFrench Revolution
Tommaso Campanella
Pierre de Bérulle
Pierre Gassendi
René Descartes
Mary of Jesus of Ágreda
António Vieira
Jean-Jacques Olier
Louis Thomassin
Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet
François Fénelon
Cornelius Jansen (Jansenism)
Blaise Pascal
Nicolas Malebranche
Giambattista Vico
Alphonsus Liguori
Louis de Montfort
Maria Gaetana Agnesi
Alfonso Muzzarelli
Johann Michael Sailer
Clement Mary Hofbauer
Bruno Lanteri
19th century
Joseph Görres
Felicité de Lamennais
Luigi Taparelli
Antonio Rosmini
Ignaz von Döllinger
John Henry Newman
Henri Lacordaire
Jaime Balmes
Gaetano Sanseverino
Giovanni Maria Cornoldi
Wilhelm Emmanuel Freiherr von Ketteler
Giuseppe Pecci
Joseph Hergenröther
Tommaso Maria Zigliara
Matthias Joseph Scheeben
Émile Boutroux
Modernism
Neo-Scholasticism
Léon Bloy
Désiré-Joseph Mercier
Friedrich von Hügel
Vladimir Solovyov
Marie-Joseph Lagrange
George Tyrrell
Maurice Blondel
Thérèse of Lisieux
20th century
G. K. Chesterton
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Joseph Maréchal
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
Jacques Maritain
Étienne Gilson
Ronald Knox
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Gabriel Marcel
Marie-Dominique Chenu
Romano Guardini
Edith Stein
Fulton Sheen
Henri de Lubac
Daniel-Rops
Jean Guitton
Josemaría Escrivá
Nouvelle théologie
Karl Rahner
Yves Congar
Bernard Lonergan
Emmanuel Mounier
Jean Daniélou
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Alfred Delp
Thomas Merton
René Girard
Johann Baptist Metz
Jean Vanier
Henri Nouwen
21st century
Carlo Maria Martini
Pope Benedict XVI
Walter Kasper
Raniero Cantalamessa
Michał Heller
Peter Kreeft
Jean-Luc Marion
Tomáš Halík
Scott Hahn
 Catholicism portal
vteChristianity in ChinaFoundations
Timeline of Chinese history
Christianity
Catholic Church in China
Protestantism in China
Chinese Orthodox Church
Terms for God
Shangdi
Shen
Tianzhu
Bible translations
Delegates Version
Chinese Union Version
Studium Biblicum Version
Chinese New Version
Today's Chinese Version
Hymns
Hymns of Universal Praise
Chinese New Hymnal
Canaan Hymns
Mission historyChurch of the East
Xi'an Stele
Jingjiao Documents
Painting of a Nestorian Christian figure
Murals from the Nestorian temple at Qocho
Alopen
Jingjing
Roman Catholic
Franciscan missions (Yuan)
Jesuit missions (Ming)
John of Montecorvino
Odoric of Pordenone
Giovanni de' Marignolli
Francis Xavier
Matteo Ricci
Joachim Bouvet
Angelo Zottoli
Frédéric-Vincent Lebbe
Chinese Rites controversy
St. Paul's College, Macau
Protestant
Agencies
Medical missions in China
Robert Morrison
Karl Gützlaff
Divie Bethune McCartee
Hudson Taylor
Lottie Moon
Timothy Richard
Jonathan Goforth
Cambridge Seven
Eric Liddell
Gladys Aylward
(more...)
Chinese Christians (by period of prominence)Ming
Candida Xu
Xu Guangqi
Yang Tingyun
Qing
Hong Xiuchuan
Liang Fa
Xi Shengmo
Republic
T. C. Chao
Chiang Kai-shek
Cheng Jingyi
 Deng Yuzhi (Cora Deng)
Feng Yuxiang
Lou Tseng-Tsiang
Ma Xiangbo
Watchman Nee
Mary Stone (Shi Meiyu)
John Sung
Sun Yatsen
Tseng Pao-sun
Wang Ming-Dao
John Ching Hsiung Wu
Wu Leichuan
Wu Yi-fang
Dora Yu
David Z. T. Yui
People'sRepublic
Joseph Gu
Ignatius Kung Pin-Mei
Samuel Lamb
Lin Shengben
Liu Xiaofeng
Lü Xiaomin
K. H. Ting
Wang Weifan
Wang Yi
Y. T. Wu
Allen Yuan
Zhao Fusan
Church-state relationsin People's Republic
The Christian Manifesto
Protestant Lianghui
Three-Self Patriotic Movement
China Christian Council
Seminaries
House church
Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association
Underground church
Events
Taiping Rebellion
First Opium War
Second Opium War
Unequal treaty
Yangzhou riot
Tianjin Massacre
Boxer Crisis
Anti-Christian Movement
1911 Revolution
Chinese Civil War
WW II
People's Republic
Impact
Science and technology
Anti-sex-selective abortion
Anti-footbinding campaign
Anti-opium campaign
Chinese Roman Type
Cantonese Roman Type
Chinese Christian Colleges
Manchurian revival
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 98001355
BNE: XX1137136
BNF: cb12096006t (data)
BPN: 95483302
CANTIC: a1048355x
CiNii: DA00683559
GND: 118535021
ICCU: IT\ICCU\VIAV\088703
ISNI: 0000 0001 2101 3028
LCCN: n50072225
LNB: 000203174
NDL: 00439991
NKC: xx0005803
NLA: 53004809
NLI: 000048456
NSK: 000029162
NTA: 071144528
RERO: 02-A000065808
SELIBR: 366187
SNAC: w6jm3m85
SUDOC: 029305837
Trove: 1533207
VcBA: 495/17211
VIAF: 51717999
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n50072225
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Francis_Xavier&amp;oldid=982682662"
		Categories: 1506 births1552 deaths16th-century Christian saints16th-century Roman Catholic priests16th-century Spanish peopleAnglican saintsIncorrupt saintsJesuit missionaries in ChinaJesuit missionariesJesuit saintsPeople celebrated in the Lutheran liturgical calendarRoman Catholic missionaries in ChinaRoman Catholic missionaries in JapanBasque Roman Catholic priestsBasque peopleSpanish JesuitsSpanish Roman Catholic missionariesSpanish Roman Catholic saintsUniversity of Paris alumniSpanish exploration in the Age of DiscoveryPortuguese exploration in the Age of DiscoveryCanonizations by Pope Gregory XVHidden categories: Articles with French-language sources (fr)CS1: long volume valueWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with Italian-language sources (it)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalismUse dmy dates from February 2020Articles containing Latin-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2019Articles needing additional references from March 2019All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from May 2019CS1 maint: ref=harvCS1 Italian-language sources (it)Commons category link from WikidataArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with BPN identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with CINII identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ICCU identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with LNB identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with NSK identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with RERO identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadView sourceView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikisource
		Languages
		العربيةAragonésAsturianuБеларускаяБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschދިވެހިބަސްEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGalegoગુજરાતીगोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡქართულიKiswahiliLatinaLatviešuMagyarMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийSarduScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 9 October 2020, at 17:39 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
