	Subsistence agriculture
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Farming which meets the basic needs of the farmer and family
  A Bakweri farmer working on his taro field on the slopes of Mount Cameroon (2005).
  Subsistence farmers selling their produce
  Agriculture in Vietnam with farmers
Subsistence agriculture occurs when farmers grow food crops to meet the needs of themselves and their families.[1] In subsistence agriculture, farm output is targeted to survival and is mostly for local requirements with little or no surplus. Planting decisions are made principally with an eye toward what the family will need during the coming year, and secondarily toward market prices.[1] Tony Waters[2] writes: "Subsistence peasants are people who grow what they eat, build their own houses, and live without regularly making purchases in the marketplace.[3][1]"
Despite the primacy of self-sufficiency in subsistence farming, today most subsistence farmers also participate in trade to some degree, though usually it is for goods that are not necessary for survival, and may include sugar, iron roofing sheets, bicycles, used clothing, and so forth. Most subsistence farmers today reside in developing countries.[4] Although their amount of trade as measured in cash is less than that of consumers in countries with modern complex markets, many have important trade contacts and trade items that they can produce because of their special skills or special access to resources valued in the marketplace.[4]
Subsistence agriculture has several characteristics which are, it requires small capital/finance, mixed cropping is mostly practiced, there is limited use of agrochemicals e.g. pesticides and fertilizer, unimproved varieties of crops and animals are used, there is little or no surplus for sale, it involves the use of crude/traditional tools such as hoes, machetes/cutlasses, it involves mainly the production of food crops, it is done on small scattered land, it uses family/unskilled labour, and yield is low
Contents
1 History
2 Contemporary practices
3 Types of subsistence farming
3.1 Shifting agriculture
3.2 Primitive farming
3.3 Nomadic herding
3.4 Intensive subsistence farming
4 Poverty alleviation
5 See also
6 References
7 Further reading
History[edit]
Subsistence agriculture was predominant in parts of Asia, especially India, and later emerged in various areas including Mexico, where it was based on maize, and in the Andes, where it was based on the domestication of the potato.
Subsistence agriculture was the dominant mode of production in the world until recently, when market-based capitalism became widespread.[5] Subsistence horticulture may have developed independently in South East Asia and Papua New Guinea.
The economy of some Kingdoms in the Gold Coast was mainly dependent on Subsistence agriculture where farm produce was shared within households and members of each household specialized in providing their household with other necessities such as cooking utilities, shelter, home, clothing and furnitures.[6]
Subsistence agriculture had largely disappeared in Europe by the beginning of World War I, and in North America with the movement of sharecroppers and tenant farmers out of the American South and Midwest during the 1930s and 1940s.[2] As recently as the 1950s, it was still common on family farms in North America and Europe to grow much of a family's own food and make much of its own clothing, although sales of the farm's production earned enough currency to buy goods. Many of the items, as well as occasional services from physicians, veterinarians, blacksmiths and others, were often bought with barter rather than currency.
In Central and Eastern Europe subsistence and semi-subsistence agriculture reappeared within the transition economy since about 1990.[7]
Contemporary practices[edit]
Subsistence farming continues today in large parts of rural Africa,[8] and parts of Asia and Latin America.  In 2015, about 2 billion people (slightly more than 25% of the world's population) in 500 million households living in rural areas of developing nations survive as "smallholder" farmers, working less than 2 hectares (5 acres) of land.[9]
Types of subsistence farming[edit]
Shifting agriculture[edit]
Main article: Shifting cultivation
In this type of agriculture, a patch of forest land is cleared by a combination of felling (chopping down) and burning, and crops are grown. After 2–3 years the fertility of the soil begins to decline, the land is abandoned and the farmer moves to clear a fresh piece of land elsewhere in the forest as the process continues.[10] While the land is left fallow the forest regrows in the cleared area and soil fertility and biomass is restored. After a decade or more, the farmer may return to the first piece of land. This form of agriculture is sustainable at low population densities, but higher population loads require more frequent clearing which prevents soil fertility from recovering, opens up more of the forest canopy, and encourages scrub at the expense of large trees, eventually resulting in deforestation and land erosion.[11] Shifting cultivation is called dredd in India, ladang in Indonesia, milpa in Central America and Mexico and jhumming in North East India.
Primitive farming[edit]
While this ”slash-and-burn” technique may describe the method for opening new land, commonly the farmers in question have in existence at the same time smaller fields, sometimes merely gardens, near the homestead there they practice intensive ”non-shifting" techniques until shortage of fields where they can employ "slash and burn" to clear land and (by the burning) provide fertilizer (ash). Such gardens near the homestead often regularly receive household refuse, and the manure of any household, chickens or goats are initially thrown into compost piles just to get them out of the way. However, such farmers often recognize the value of such compost and apply it regularly to their smaller fields. They also may irrigate part of such fields if they are near a source of water.
In some areas of tropical Africa, at least, such smaller fields may be ones in which crops are grown on raised beds.  Thus farmers practicing ”slash and burn” agriculture are often much more sophisticated agriculturalists than the term "slash and burn" subsistence farmers suggests.
Nomadic herding[edit]
In this type of farming people migrate along with their animals from one place to another in search of fodder for their animals. Generally they rear cattle, sheep, goats, camels and/or yaks for milk, skin, meat and wool.[6] This way of life is common in parts of central and western Asia, India, east and southwest Africa and northern Eurasia. Examples are the nomadic Bhotiyas and Gujjars of the Himalayas. They carry their belongings, such as tents, etc., on the backs of donkeys, horses, and camels.[6] In mountainous regions, like Tibet and the Andes, yak and llama are reared. Reindeer are the livestock in arctic and sub-arctic areas. Sheep, goats, and camels are common animals, and cattle and horses are also important.[6][12]
Intensive subsistence farming[edit]
In intensive subsistence agriculture, the farmer cultivates a small plot of land using simple tools and more labour.[13] Climate with large number of days with sunshine and fertile soils, permits growing of more than one crop annually on the same plot. Farmers use their small land holdings to produce enough for their local consumption, while remaining produce is used for exchange against other goods. It results in much more food being produced per acre compared to other subsistence patterns. In the most intensive situation, farmers may even create terraces along steep hillsides to cultivate rice paddies.  Such fields are found in densely populated parts of Asia, such as in the Philippines. They may also intensify by using manure, artificial irrigation and animal waste as fertilizer. Intensive subsistence farming is prevalent in the thickly populated areas of the monsoon regions of south, southwest, and southeast Asia.[13]
Poverty alleviation[edit]
Subsistence agriculture can be used as a poverty alleviation strategy, specifically as a safety net for food-price shocks and for food security. Poor countries are limited in fiscal and institutional resources that would allow them to contain rises in domestic prices as well as to manage social assistance programs, which is often because they are using policy tools that are intended for middle- and high-income countries.[14] Low-income countries tend to have populations in which 80% of poor are in rural areas and more than 90% of rural households have access to land, yet a majority of these rural poor have insufficient access to food.[14] Subsistence agriculture can be used in low-income countries as a part of policy responses to a food crisis in the short and medium term, and provide a safety net for the poor in these countries.[14]
See also[edit]
Back-to-the-land movement
Cash crop
Commercial agriculture
Extensive agriculture
Hoe-farming
Industrial agriculture
Opium replacement
Subsistence economy
Subsistence fishing
References[edit]
^ a b c Bisht, I. S.; Pandravada, S. R.; Rana, J. C.; Malik, S. K.; Singh, Archna; Singh, P. B.; Ahmed, Firoz; Bansal, K. C. (2014-09-14). "Subsistence Farming, Agrobiodiversity, and Sustainable Agriculture: A Case Study". Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems. 38 (8): 890–912. doi:10.1080/21683565.2014.901273. ISSN 2168-3565. S2CID 154197444..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b Tony Waters. The Persistence of Subsistence Agriculture: life beneath the level of the marketplace. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books. 2007.
^ Waters, Tony. (2008). The persistence of subsistence agriculture : life beneath the level of the marketplace. Lexington Books. ISBN 978-0-7391-5876-0. OCLC 839303290.
^ a b Marvin P Miracle, "Subsistence Agriculture: Analytical Problems and Alternative Concepts", American Journal of Agricultural Economics, May 1968, pp. 292–310.
^ George Reisman. "Capitalism" (1990), p.16
^ a b c d Hymer, Stephen (Spring 2018). "Economic Forms in Pre-Colonial Ghana". Economic History Association. 30 (1): 33–50. doi:10.1017/S0022050700078578. hdl:10419/160011. JSTOR 2116722. Cite error: The named reference ":1" was defined multiple times with different content (see the help page).
^ Steffen Abele and Klaus Frohberg (Eds.). "Subsistence Agriculture in Central and Eastern Europe: How to Break the Vicious Circle?" Studies on the Agricultural and Food Sector in Central and Eastern Europe. IAMO, 2003. Archived 2011-07-19 at the Wayback Machine
^ Goran Hyden. Beyond Ujamaa in Tanzania: Underdevelopment and an Uncaptured Peasantry. Berkeley: University of California Press. 1980.
^ Rapsomanikis, George (2015). "The economic lives of smallholder farmers" (PDF). Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. p. 9. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2016-05-04. Retrieved 2018-01-11. About two-thirds of the developing world’s 3 billion rural people live in about 475 million small farm households, working on land plots smaller than 2 hectares.
^ "Community Forestry: Forestry Note 8". www.fao.org. Retrieved 2020-05-30.
^ "Agriculture Ecosystems &amp; Environment (AGR ECOSYST ENVIRON)". Soil Erosion from Shifting Cultivation and Other Smallholder Land Use in Sarawak, Malaysia. 4 (42).
^ Miggelbrink, Judith, editor. Habeck, Joachim Otto, editor. Mazzullo, Nuccio, editor. Koch, Peter, editor. (15 November 2016). Nomadic and indigenous spaces : productions and cognitions. ISBN 978-1-138-26721-3. OCLC 1010537015.CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ a b Vaughn, Sharon; Wanzek, Jeanne (May 2014). "Intensive Interventions in Reading for Students with Reading Disabilities: Meaningful Impacts". Learning Disabilities Research &amp; Practice. 29 (2): 46–53. doi:10.1111/ldrp.12031. ISSN 0938-8982. PMC 4043370. PMID 24910504.
^ a b c de Janvry, Alain; Sadoulet, Elisabeth (2011-06-01). "Subsistence farming as a safety net for food-price shocks". Development in Practice. 21 (4–5): 472–480. doi:10.1080/09614524.2011.561292. ISSN 0961-4524. S2CID 13891983.
Further reading[edit]
Charles Sellers (1991). The Market Revolution: Jacksonian America, 1815–1846. New York: Oxford University Press.
Sir Albert Howard (1943). An Agricultural Testament. Oxford University Press.
Tony Waters (2010). "Farmer Power: The continuing confrontation between subsistence farmers and development bureaucrats"/
Marvin P Miracle (May 1968). "Subsistence Agriculture: Analytical Problems and Alternative Concepts“, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, pp. 292–310.
vteSimple livingPractices
Barter
Cord-cutting
DIY ethic
Downshifting
Dry toilet
Fasting
Forest gardening
Freeganism
Frugality
Gift economy
Intentional community
Local currency
Low-impact development
No frills
Off-the-grid
Permaculture
Regift
Self-sufficiency
Subsistence agriculture
Sustainable living
Sustainable sanitation
Veganism
Vegetarianism
Voluntary childlessness
War tax resistance
WWOOF
Religious and spiritual
Asceticism
Aparigraha
Cynicism
Detachment
Distributism
Jesus movement
Mendicant
Mindfulness
Monasticism
New Monasticism
Plain dress
Plain people
Quakers
Rastafari
Temperance
Testimony of simplicity
Tolstoyan movement
Secular movements
Back-to-the-land
Car-free
Compassionate living
Environmental
Hippie
Open Source Ecology
Slow
Small house
Tiny house
Transition town
Notable writers
Wendell Berry
Ernest Callenbach
G. K. Chesterton
Duane Elgin
Mahatma Gandhi
Richard Gregg
Tom Hodgkinson
Harlan Hubbard
Satish Kumar
Helen Nearing
Scott Nearing
Peace Pilgrim
Nick Rosen
Dugald Semple
E. F. Schumacher
George Skene Keith
Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy
Valluvar
Modern-day adherents
Mark Boyle
Rob Greenfield
Jim Merkel
Peace Pilgrim
Suelo
Thomas
Varg Vikernes
Media
"Anekdote zur Senkung der Arbeitsmoral"
Escape from Affluenza
The Good Life
The Moon and the Sledgehammer
Mother Earth News
The Power of Half
Small Is Beautiful
Walden
Related topics
Affluenza
Agrarianism
Amateurism
Anarcho-primitivism
Anti-consumerism
Appropriate technology
Bohemianism
Consumerism
Deep ecology
Degrowth
Ecological footprint
Food miles
Front Porch Republic
Green anarchism
The good life
Global warming
Hedonophobia
Intentional living
Itinerant
Low-technology
Nonviolence
Peak oil
Sustainability
Work–life balance
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Subsistence_agriculture&amp;oldid=981473970"
		Categories: Agriculture by typeTropical agricultureAgricultural laborAgricultural economicsSimple livingHidden categories: Pages with reference errorsPages with duplicate reference namesWebarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listArticles with short descriptionShort description matches Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		AfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAsturianuCatalàDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalegoहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoBahasa MelayuNederlandsNorsk bokmålPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 2 October 2020, at 14:49 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
