	Desegregation in the United States
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Desegregation)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Process of ending the separation of two groups usually referring to races
Part of a series onDiscrimination
General forms
Age
Caste
Class
Disability
Education
Economic
Employment
Genetic
Hair texture
Height
Housing
Language
Looks
Race / Ethnicity / Nationality
Rank
Sanity
Sex
Sexual orientation
Size
Skin color
Specific forms
Social
Acephobia
Adultism
Amatonormativity
Anti-albinism
Anti-autism
Anti-homelessness
Anti-intellectualism
Anti-intersex
Anti-left handedness
Anti-Masonry
Antisemitism (Judeophobia)
Aporophobia
Audism
Biphobia
Clannism
Cronyism
Drug use
Elitism
Ephebiphobia
Fatism
Gerontophobia
Heteronormativity
Heterosexism
HIV/AIDS stigma
Homophobia
Leprosy stigma
Lesbophobia
Misandry
Misogyny
Nepotism
Pedophobia
Perpetual foreigner
Pregnancy
Reverse
Sectarianism
Supremacism
Black
White
Transphobia
Non-binary
Transmisogyny
Vegaphobia
Xenophobia
Religious
Ahmadiyya
Atheism
Baháʼí Faith
Buddhism
Catholicism
Christianity
post–Cold War era
Falun Gong
Hinduism
Persecution
Islam
Persecution
Jehovah's Witnesses
Judaism
Persecution
LDS or Mormon
Neopaganism
Eastern Orthodox
Oriental Orthodox
Protestantism
Rastafarianism
Shi'ism
Sufism
Zoroastrianism
Ethnic/national
African
Albanian
American
Arab
Armenian
Australian
Austrian
British
Canadian
Catalan
Chilean
Chinese
Croat
Dutch
English
Estonian
European
Filipino
Finnish
French
Georgian
German
Greek
Haitian
Hazara
Hindu
Hispanic
Hungarian
Igbo
Indian
Indonesian
Iranian
Irish
Israeli
Italian
Japanese
Jewish
Khmer
Korean
Kurdish
Malay
Manchu
Mexican
Middle Eastern
Mongolian
Pakistani
Pashtun
Polish
Portuguese
Quebec
Romani
Romanian
Russian
Scottish
Serb
Slavic
Somali
Soviet
Tatar
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Venezuelan
Vietnamese
Western
Manifestations
Blood libel
Bullying
Compulsory sterilization
Counter-jihad
Cultural genocide
Defamation
Democide
Disability hate crime
Dog-whistle politics
Eliminationism
Enemy of the people
Ethnic cleansing
Ethnic conflict
Ethnic hatred
Ethnic joke
Ethnocide
Forced conversion
Freak show
Gay bashing
Gendercide
Genital modification and mutilation
Genocide
examples
Glass ceiling
Hate crime
Hate group
Hate speech
online
Homeless dumping
Indian rolling
Lavender scare
LGBT hate crimes
Lynching
Mortgage
Murder music
Occupational segregation
Persecution
Pogrom
Purge
Red Scare
Religious persecution
Religious terrorism
Religious violence
Religious war
Scapegoating
Segregation academy
Sex-selective abortion
Slavery
Slut-shaming
Trans bashing
Victimisation
Violence against women
White flight
White power music
Wife selling
Witch-hunt
Policies
Age of candidacy
Blood purity
Blood quantum
Crime of apartheid
Disabilities
Catholic
Jewish
Ethnocracy
Ethnopluralism
Gender pay gap
Gender roles
Gerontocracy
Gerrymandering
Ghetto benches
Internment
Jewish quota
Jim Crow laws
Law for Protection of the Nation
McCarthyism
MSM blood donation restrictions
Nonpersons
Numerus clausus (as religious or racial quota)
Nuremberg Laws
One-drop rule
Racial quota
Racial steering
Redlining
Same-sex marriage (laws and issues prohibiting)
Segregation
age
racial
religious
sexual
Sodomy law
State atheism
State religion
Ugly law
Voter suppression
Countermeasures
Affirmative action
Anti-discrimination law
Cultural assimilation
Cultural pluralism
Diversity training
Empowerment
Feminism
Fighting Discrimination
Hate speech laws by country
Human rights
Intersex rights
LGBT rights
Masculism
Multiculturalism
Nonviolence
Racial integration
Reappropriation
Self-determination
Social integration
Toleration
Related topics
Allophilia
Anti-cultural, anti-national, and anti-ethnic terms
Bias
Christian privilege
Civil liberties
Cultural assimilation
Dehumanization
Diversity
Ethnic penalty
Eugenics
Internalized oppression
Intersectionality
Madonna–whore complex
Male privilege
Masculism
Medical model of disability
autism
Multiculturalism
Net bias
Neurodiversity
Oikophobia
Oppression
Police brutality
Political correctness
Polyculturalism
Power distance
Prejudice
Prisoner abuse
Racial bias in criminal news
Racism by country
Religious intolerance
Second-generation gender bias
Snobbery
Social exclusion
Social model of disability
Social stigma
Stereotype
threat
The talk
White privilege
vte
Desegregation is the process of ending the separation of two groups, usually referring to races. Desegregation is typically measured by the index of dissimilarity allowing researchers to determine whether desegregation efforts are having impact on the settlement patterns of various groups.[1] This is most commonly used in reference to the United States. Desegregation was long a focus of the American civil rights movement, both before and after the United States Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education, particularly desegregation of the school systems and the military (see Military history of African Americans). Racial integration of society was a closely related goal.
Contents
1 US military
1.1 Early history
1.2 World Wars I and II
1.3 Modern history
2 US housing law
3 US education system
3.1 Asian Americans
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
US military[edit]
Early history[edit]
Starting with King Philip's War in the 17th century, Black and White people served together in an integrated environment in the North American colonies. They continued to fight alongside each other in every American war until the war of 1812. Black people would not fight in integrated units again until the Korean war.[2] Thousands of Black men fought on the side of rebellious colonists in the American revolutionary war, many in the new continental navy. Their names, accomplishments and total numbers are unknown because of poor record keeping.
During the American civil war, Black people enlisted in large numbers. They were mostly enslaved African Americans who had escaped in the south, although there were many northern Black unionists as well. More than 180,000 Black people served with the union army and navy during the civil war in segregated units, known as the United States Colored Troops, under the command of White officers. They were recorded and are part of the National Park Service's Civil War Soldiers &amp; Sailors System (CWSS).[3]
Around 18,000 Black people also joined the union navy as sailors. They were recorded and are part of the National Park Service's War Soldiers &amp; Sailors System (CWSS).[3]
World Wars I and II[edit]
While a handful of Black people were commissioned as officers in World War I, they were severely underrepresented throughout the conflict, though the NAACP lobbied for the commission of greater numbers of Black officers. Upon entering office, President Woodrow Wilson officially segregated the United States navy for the first time in its history.[citation needed]
During World War II, most officers were White, and most Black troops still served only as truck drivers and as stevedores.[4] The Red Ball Express, which was instrumental in facilitating the rapid advance of allied forces across France after D-Day, was operated almost exclusively by African American truck drivers. In the midst of the Battle of the Bulge in late 1944, General Dwight D. Eisenhower was severely short of replacement troops for existing military units, all of which were totally white in composition, so he made the decision to allow African American soldiers to join the White military units to fight in combat for the first time —the first step toward a desegregated United States military. Eisenhower's decision in this case was strongly opposed by his own army chief of staff, Lieutenant General Walter Bedell Smith, who was outraged by the decision, and said that the American public would take offense with the integration of the military units.[4]
For the US army air corps, see the Tuskegee Airmen.
For the US army, see the 761st Tank Battalion (United States).
In the second world war, the US navy first experimented with integration aboard USCGC Sea Cloud, then later on USS Mason, (both commanded by Carlton Skinner) a ship with Black crew members and commanded by White officers. Some called it "Eleanor's folly" after President Franklin Roosevelt's wife.[5][citation needed] Mason's purpose had been to allow Black sailors to serve in the full range of billets (positions) rather than being restricted to stewards and mess men, as they were on most ships. The navy was pressured to train Black sailors for billets by Eleanor Roosevelt, who insisted that they be given the jobs for which they had trained.
  "17th Special" Seabees with the 7th Marines on Peleliu made national news in an official U.S.Navy press release.[6] NARA-532537 
The US navy's newest component, the Seabees, had the same ingrained attitudes and approaches but ended up at the forefront of change. In February 1942, the CNO, Admiral Harold Rainsford Stark, recommended African Americans for ratings in the construction trades. In April, the navy announced it would enlist African Americans in the Seabees. Even so, those men were put into segregated units, the 34th[7] and 80th[8] Naval Construction Battalions (NCBs). Both had White southern officers and Black enlisted. Both battalions experienced problems with this arrangement, which led to the replacement of the officers. In addition, many of the stevedore battalions (special construction battalions) were segregated. However, by war's end, many of those special construction battalions were the first fully integrated units in the US navy.[9]  The war's end also brought the decommissioning of every one of those units.
Modern history[edit]
In 1948, President Harry S. Truman's Executive Order 9981 ordered the integration of the armed forces following World War II, a major advance in civil rights.[10] Using the executive order meant that Truman could bypass Congress. Representatives of the Solid South, all White Democrats, would likely have stonewalled related legislation.
For instance, in May 1948, Richard B. Russell, Democratic senator from Georgia, attached an amendment granting draftees and new inductees the opportunity to choose whether or not they wanted to serve in segregated military units to the Selective Service Act that was being debated in Congress, but it was defeated in committee. Truman signed Executive Order 9981 on July 26, 1948.  In June 1950 when the Selective Services Law came up for renewal, Russell unsuccessfully tried again to attach his segregation amendment.[citation needed]
At the end of June 1950, the Korean war broke out.  The US army had accomplished little desegregation in peacetime and sent the segregated Eighth Army to defend South Korea. Most Black soldiers served in segregated support units in the rear. The remainder served in segregated combat units, most notably the 24th Infantry regiment. The first months of the Korean war were some of the most disastrous in US military history. The North Korean People's Army nearly drove the American-led United Nations forces off the Korean peninsula. Faced with staggering losses in White units, commanders on the ground began accepting Black replacements, thus integrating their units. The practice occurred all over the Korean battle lines, and proved that integrated combat units could perform under fire. The army high command took notice. On 26 July 1951, exactly three years after Truman issued Executive Order 9981, the US army formally announced its plans to desegregate.[citation needed]
On 12 October 1972, a racially fraught riot occurred on USS Kitty Hawk.[11] "Despite the presence of a Black executive officer, the ship's second-in-command, many Black sailors felt they were dealt harsher punishments and menial assignments because of their race".[12]
US housing law[edit]
The practice of segregating and discriminating in housing opportunity based on race has a long history in the United States. Until the American civil rights movement in the 1960s, segregated neighborhoods were enforceable by law. The Fair Housing Act ended discrimination in the sale, rental and financing of housing based on race, color, religion, and national origin. This was the first housing law against discrimination. The passage of this act was contentious. It was meant to be a direct follow up to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. However, from 1966 to 1967 it failed to garner enough political support for its passage in the United States Congress. At that time, several states had passed their own fair housing laws and Congress was not convinced that a federal law was necessary.
It was only after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr on 4 April 1968, and the ensuing riots, that the bill was finally passed. It was signed into law on 11 April 1968 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, a strong proponent. Johnson called the new law one of the "promises of a century … It proclaims that fair housing for all — all human beings who live in this country — is now a part of the American way of life." Since the act's passage in 1968, it has been amended to include sex, familial status, and disability. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity within the US Department of Housing and Urban Development is charged with administering and enforcing this law.
US education system[edit]
Main article: School integration in the United States
See also: Black school and White flight
  Hate mail written in the late 1950s regarding desegregation of Little Rock Central High School is projected over actresses Mary-Pat Green and Gia McGlone in Arkansas Repertory Theatre's 2007 production of The Legacy Project: It Happened in Little Rock.
In Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education (1971), the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that forced busing of students may be ordered to achieve racial desegregation. However, court-enforced school desegregation efforts have decreased over time.
A major decline in manufacturing in northern cities, with a shift of jobs to suburbs, the South, and overseas, has led to increases in the numbers of residents of all races in suburbs, and shifts in population from the North and Great Plains to the southwest, the Pacific Northwest, and the South. Left behind in many northeastern and midwestern inner cities have been the poorest Black people and other minorities. According to Jonathan Kozol, in the early 21st century, US schools have become as segregated as they were in the late 1960s.[13]
The Civil Rights Project at Harvard University says that desegregation of US public schools peaked in 1988. As of 2005, the proportion of Black students at schools with a White majority was at "a level lower than in any year since 1968".[14]
Some critics of school desegregation have argued that court-enforced desegregation efforts were either unnecessary or self-defeating. Numerous middle class and wealthy White people continued moving from cities to suburbs during the 1970s and later, in part to escape certain integrated school systems, but also as part of the suburbanization caused by movement of jobs to suburbs, continuing state and federal support for expansion of highways, and changes in the economy.
Some White parents in Louisiana said that they were afraid to drop off their children because of all the mobs surrounding the desegregated schools.[15] The burden was often placed on Black students to change the historically White culture of schools.[16]
Sociologist David Armor states in his 1995 book Forced Justice: School Desegregation and the Law that efforts to change the racial compositions of schools had not contributed substantially to academic achievement by minorities. Carl L. Bankston and Stephen J. Caldas, in their books A Troubled Dream: The Promise and Failure of School Desegregation in Louisiana (2002) and Forced to Fail: The Paradox of School Desegregation (2005), argued that continuing racial inequality in the larger American society had undermined efforts to force schools to desegregate.[17] They maintained that racial inequality had resulted in popular associations between school achievement and race. Therefore, the achievement levels of American schools were generally associated with their class and racial compositions. This meant that even parents without racial prejudice tended to seek middle class or better residential neighborhoods in seeking the best schools for their children. As a result, efforts to impose court-ordered desegregation often led to school districts with too few White students for effective desegregation, as White students increasingly left for majority White suburban districts or for private schools.
Asian Americans[edit]
The increasing diversity of American society has led to more complex issues related to school and ethnic proportion. In the 1994 federal court case Ho v. San Francisco Unified School District, parents of Chinese American schoolchildren alleged that racial quotas under a 1983 consent decree constituted racial discrimination in violation of the United States Constitution's Equal Protection Clause. The desegregation plan did not allow any school to enroll more than 50% of any ethnic group. Originally intended to aid integration of Black students, the ruling had a negative effect on the admissions of Chinese Americans, who had become the district's largest ethnic group.
The newspaper AsianWeek documented the Chinese American parents' challenge. Since Chinese Americans were already nearly half the student population, the consent decree had the effect of requiring the competitive Lowell High School in San Francisco, California, to apply much higher academic admission standards for Chinese American students. However, the civil rights group Chinese for Affirmative Action sided with the school district, arguing that such standards were not harmful to Chinese Americans, and were necessary to avoid the resegregation of schools. In 2006, Chinese parents continued to protest against race-based school assignments.[18]
See also[edit]
Achievement gap in the United States
Civil rights movement (1896–1954)
Multiculturalism
Timeline of the civil rights movement
List of sports desegregation firsts
References[edit]
^ Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p. 175..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Blacks in the Korean War". U.S. Army. 2003. Archived from the original on 2007-07-16. Retrieved 2008-03-09.
^ a b "Soldiers and Sailors Database". National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Retrieved 27 February 2015.
^ a b Martin Blumenson, Eisenhower (Ballantine Books Inc.: New York, 1972) p. 127; Jonathan Jordan, American Warlords: How Roosevelt's High Command Led America to Victory in World War II, (Penguin 2015), 54-58, 143-45.
^ Freeman, Greg (2003). Greg Freeman: A Gentleman, a Gentle Man : Selected Columns, St. Louis Post-dispatch. Virginia Publishing. ISBN 9781891442230.
^ Antill, Peter (2003), Peleliu, battle for (Operation Stalemate II) - The Pacific War's Forgotten Battle, September–November 1944, "HITTING THE BEACH 3rd paragraph" [1]
^ Thirty Fourth Naval Construction Battalion, Cmdr Lester M. Marx, Schwabacher Frey Company, San Francisco, CA, 1946 [2]
^ 80th naval construction battalion, Bickford Engraving And Electrotype Co. 20 Matheewson Street, Providence, RI, 1946 [3]
^ "Seabeemagazine online 2014/03/06". Archived from the original on 2018-05-19. Retrieved 2018-05-17.
^ Taylor, Jon E. (2012). Freedom to serve : Truman, civil rights, and Executive Order 9981. New York: Routledge. ISBN 9780415895583.
^ Gregory A. Freeman Troubled Water: Race, Mutiny, and Bravery on the USS Kitty Hawk Palgrave Macmillan, New York, NY (2009) ISBN 9780230613614
^ Webcast Interview Archived 2013-06-28 at the Wayback Machine by Gregory A. Freeman on Troubled Waters at the Pritzker Military Library on February 18, 2010
^ Jonathan Kozol, "Segregation and Its Calamitous Effects: America's 'Apartheid' Schools" Archived 2007-02-02 at the Wayback Machine, VUE (Voices in Urban Education), Number 10, Winter 2006, Annenberg Institute for School Reform, Brown University.
^ Jonathan Kozol, "Overcoming Apartheid", The Nation, December 19, 2005. p. 26
^ "1960 Year In Review: Schools Desegregate". United Press International. 1960. Retrieved 27 February 2015.
^ Lillie, Karen (2019-06-10). "Transforming the elite: black students and the desegregation of private schools, by Michelle A. Purdy". History of Education: 1–2. doi:10.1080/0046760X.2019.1622794. ISSN 0046-760X.
^ Schafer, Mark (March 2004). "A Troubled Dream: The Promise and Failure of School Desegregation in Louisiana (review)". Social Forces. 82 (3): 1242–1244. doi:10.1353/sof.2004.0053.
^ "Back to School for Integration: The Catch-22 of Excellence and Diversity Without Race" Archived 2006-08-21 at the Wayback Machine, AsianWeek
External links[edit]
Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
File a housing discrimination complaint
School Desegregation and Equal Educational Opportunity, part of the Civil Rights 101 Reference Guide From civilrights.org.
Guardians of Freedom - 50th Anniversary of Operation Arkansas, by ARMY.MIL
Civil Rights Project at Harvard University
Commission for Racial Equality, race equality body in the UK
Memphis Civil Rights Digital Archive
Trumanlibrary.org
Ussmason.org
Bedfordbulletin.com[permanent dead link]
John Egerton, "Walking into History: The Beginning of School Desegregation in Nashville," Southern Spaces, 4 May 2009, southernspaces.org
Ruthie Yow, "'It's Being Black and Poor': Race, Class, and Desegregation at Pebblebrook High," Southern Spaces, 20 February 2012, southernspaces.org
vteSegregation in countries by type (in some countries, categories overlap)Religious
Partition of India
Northern Ireland
Israel
Greece and Turkey
Partition of Bengal
Portugal
Saudi Arabia
Spain
Bahrain
Myanmar
Racial
Australia
Canada
Bahrain
Brazil
Dominican Republic
Fiji
France
Malaysia
Nazi Germany
Poland
Portugal
Rhodesia
South Africa
Spain
Saudi Arabia
United Arab Emirates
United States
Civil War
Separate but equal
School segregation
Brown v. Board of Education
Massive resistance
Anti-miscegenation laws
Gender
Islam (in Iran)
Taliban
Saudi Arabia
Judaism
Sex segregation in public restrooms
Separatist feminism
Dynamics
Auto-segregation
Balkanization
Ethnic cleansing
Exclusionary zoning
Forced migration
Internment
labor camps
Residential segregation in the United States
Segregation academy (United States)
Social exclusion
Relatedtopics
Apartheid
laws
Anti-miscegenation laws
Black Codes
Corporative federalism
Discrimination
Hafrada
Jim Crow laws
Nativism
Nuremberg Laws
Racism
Rankism
Religious intolerance
Reservation in India
Second-class citizen
Separate school (Canada)
Shunning
Social apartheid
Xenophobia
See also: Desegregation
busing
Pillarisation
 Category
caste
gender
racial
 Commons
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Desegregation_in_the_United_States&amp;oldid=979125940"
		Categories: SegregationAfrican-American segregation in the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2015Articles with unsourced statements from April 2008Articles with unsourced statements from June 2020All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2019Articles with permanently dead external links
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		العربيةCatalàDeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoעבריתСрпски / srpskiSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 18 September 2020, at 23:00 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
