	Natural Resources Conservation Service
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Natural Resources Conservation ServiceAgency overviewFormedSeptember 13, 1933Preceding agencySoil Conservation Service, Soil Erosion ServiceHeadquartersWashington, D.C.EmployeesApprox 11,000Agency executiveMatt Lohr, ChiefParent agencyDepartment of AgricultureWebsitewww.nrcs.usda.gov
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), formerly known as the Soil Conservation Service (SCS), is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) that provides technical assistance to farmers and other private landowners and managers.
Its name was changed in 1994 during the presidency of Bill Clinton to reflect its broader mission. It is a relatively small agency, currently comprising about 12,000 employees.[1] Its mission is to improve, protect, and conserve natural resources on private lands through a cooperative partnership with state and local agencies.  While its primary focus has been agricultural lands, it has made many technical contributions to soil surveying, classification and water quality improvement.[2][3] One example is the Conservation Effects Assessment Project (CEAP), set up to quantify the benefits of agricultural conservation efforts promoted and supported by programs in the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill). NRCS is the leading agency in this project.
Contents
1 History
2 Programs and services
2.1 Farm bill
2.1.1 Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)
2.1.2 Healthy Forests Reserve Program
2.2 NRCS National Ag Water Management Team
2.2.1 Snow Survey and Water Supply Forecasting
2.3 Conservation Technical Assistance Program
2.4 Gulf of Mexico Initiative
2.5 International programs
3 Programs and services
4 Technical resources
4.1 Soil
4.2 Water
4.2.1 Water management
4.2.2 Water quality
4.2.3 Watershed program
4.3 Plants and animals
4.3.1 Fish and wildlife
4.3.2 Insects and pollinators
4.3.3 Invasive species and pests
4.3.4 Livestock
4.3.5 Plants
5 Supported organizations
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
History[edit]
The agency was founded largely through the efforts of Hugh Hammond Bennett, a soil conservation pioneer who worked for the Department of Agriculture from 1903 to 1952.[4] Bennett's motivation was based on his knowledge of the detrimental effects of soil erosion and the impacts on U.S lands[5] that led to the Dust Bowl in the 1930s. On September 13, 1933, the Soil Erosion Service was formed in the Department of the Interior, with Bennett as chief.  The service was transferred to the Department of Agriculture on March 23, 1935, and was shortly thereafter combined with other USDA units to form the Soil Conservation Service by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act of 1935.[6][7]
The Soil Conservation Service was in charge of 500 Civilian Conservation Corps camps between 1933 and 1942. The primary purpose of these camps was erosion control.[8]
Hugh Bennett continued as chief, a position he held until his retirement in 1952.[4]  On October 20, 1994, the agency was renamed to the Natural Resources Conservation Service as part of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994.[7][9]
Programs and services[edit]
NRCS offers technical and financial assistance to farmers and ranchers. The financial assistance is authorized by the Farm Bill, a law that is renewed every five years. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidated 23 programs into 15. NRCS offers these services to private land owners, conservation districts, tribes, and other types of organizations.[10] NRCS also collects and shares information on the nation's soil, water, air, and plants.  
  2008 Farm Bill logo (USA)
Farm bill[edit]
The Conservation Title of the Farm Bill provides the funding to agricultural producers, and a conservation plan must be included.[11] All of these programs are voluntary. The main programs include:
Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)[edit]
The purpose of EQIP is to provide assistance to landowners to help them improve their soil, water and related natural resources, including grazing lands, wetlands, and wildlife habitat.
Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP)
CSP is targeted to producers who maintain a higher level of environmental stewardship.
Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP)
RCPP consolidated four programs from the prior 2008 Farm Bill. It aims at more regional or watershed scale projects, rather than individual farms and ranches.
Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP)
ACEP was another consolidation effort of the 2014 Farm Bill, which includes the former Grasslands Reserve Program, Farm, and Ranch Lands Protection Program, and Wetlands Reserve Program. ACEP includes technical and financial help to maintain or improve land for agriculture or environmental benefits.
Healthy Forests Reserve Program[edit]
(HFRP) Landowners volunteer to restore and protect forests in 30 or 10 year contracts. This program hands assisting funds to participants.
The objectives of  HFRP are to:
Promote the recovery of endangered and threatened species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA)
Improve plant and animal biodiversity
Enhance carbon sequestration [12]
NRCS National Ag Water Management Team[edit]
(AGWAM) Serves 10 states in the Midwest United States in helping to reduce Nitrate levels in soil due to runoff from fertilized farmland. The project began in 2010 and initially focused on the Mississippi Basin area. The main goal of the project is to implement better methods of managing water drainage from agricultural uses, in place of letting the water drain naturally as it had done in the past. In October 2011, The National "Managing Water, Harvesting Results"[13] Summit was held to promote the drainage techniques used in hopes of people adopting them nationwide.[14]
Snow Survey and Water Supply Forecasting[edit]
Includes water supply forecasts, reservoirs, and the Surface Water Supply Index (SWSI) for Alaska and other Western states. NRCS agents collect data from snowpack and mountain sites to predict spring runoff and summer streamflow amounts. These predictions are used in decision making for agriculture, wildlife management, construction and development, and several other areas. These predictions are available within the first 5 days of each month from January to June.[15]
Conservation Technical Assistance Program[edit]
(CTA) Is a blanket program which involves conservation efforts on soil and water conservation, as well as management of agricultural wastes, erosion, and general longterm sustainability.  NRCS and related agencies work with landowners, communities, or developers to protect the environment. Also serve to guide people to comply with acts such as the Highly Erodible Land, Wetland (Swampbuster), and Conservation Compliance Provisions acts. The CTA can also cover projects by state, local, and federal governments.[16]
  USDA-NRCS State Conservationist Salvador Salinas with federal and state partners held a press conference at the Arkansas National Wildlife Refuge, in Austwell, TX, on Friday, Dec. 16, 2011. Salinas covered the recent announcement of the USDA-NRCS Gulf of Mexico Initiative (GoMI) efforts to improve water quality, habitat, and the health of the Gulf ecosystem.
Gulf of Mexico Initiative[edit]
Is a program to assist gulf bordering states (Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas) improve water quality and use sustainable methods of farming, fishing, and other industry. The program will deliver up to 50 million dollars over 2011–2013 to apply these sustainable methods, as well as wildlife habitat management systems that do not hinder agricultural productivity, and prevent future over use of water resources to protect native endangered species.[17]
International programs[edit]
The NRCS (formerly SCS) has been involved in soil and other conservation issues internationally since the 1930s. The main bulk of international programs focused on preventing soil erosion by sharing techniques known to the United States with other areas. NRCS sends staff to countries worldwide to conferences to improve knowledge of soil conservation.[18] There is also international technical assistance programs similar to programs implemented in the United States. There are long-term technical assistance programs in effect with one or more NRCS staff residing in the country for a minimum of one year. There are currently long-term assistance programs on every continent. Short-term technical assistance is also available on a two-week basis.[19]
These programs are to encourage local landowners and organizations to participate in the conservation of natural resources on their land, and lastly, landscape planning has a goal to solve problems dealing with natural resource conservation with the help of the community in order to reach a desired future outcome.[20]
Programs and services[edit]
  USDA Service Center in Moorefield, West Virginia
NRCS offers technical and financial assistance to farmers and ranchers. The financial assistance is authorized by the Farm Bill, a law that is renewed every five years. The 2014 Farm Bill consolidated 23 programs into 15. NRCS offers these services to private land owners, conservation districts, tribes, and other types of organizations.
Technical resources[edit]
Soil[edit]
There is a long history of U.S. Soil Survey including federal scientists and cooperators through the National Cooperative Soil Survey. Soil survey products include: Web Soil Survey ,NCSS Characterization Database, and many investigative reports and journal articles.[21]
In 2015, NRCS began broad support of soil health, which incorporates less tillage and more cover crops to reduce erosion and improve the diversity of the soil.[22]
Water[edit]
Pollution of water due to a number of different pollutants has driven the NRCS to take action. Not only do they offer financial assistance but they also provide the equipment needed for private land owners to protect our water resources.[23] Water gets polluted by nitrogen and phosphorus which causes algae to grow proliferously causing the oxygen concentrations to decline rapidly, life is no longer supported in this habitat.[24] Excessive sedimentation is also another concern along with pathogens threats that can find their way into water systems and cause detrimental effects.[24] NRCS works in a way to help both the land owner and the water systems that need prevention or restoration.
Water management[edit]
Water management strives to manage and control the flow of water in a way that is efficient while causing the least amount of damage to life and property.[25] This helps provide protection in high risk areas from flooding. Irrigation water management is the most efficient way to use and recycle water resources for land owners and farmers.[25] Drainage management is the manipulation of the sub surface drainage networks in order to properly disperse the water to the correct geographical areas.[26] The NRCS engineering vision is constantly making improvements to irrigation systems in a way that incorporates every aspect of water restoration.[27]
Water quality[edit]
A team of highly trained experts on every aspect of water is employed by the NRCS to analyze water from different sources. They work in many areas such as: hydrology and hydraulics, stream restoration, wetlands, agriculture, agronomy, animal waste management, pest control, salinity, irrigation, and nutrients in water.[28]
Watershed program[edit]
See also: Emergency Watershed Program
Under watershed programs the NRCS works with states, local governments, and tribes by providing funding and resources in order to help restore and also benefit from the programs.[29] They provide: watershed protection, flood mitigation, water quality improvement, soil erosion reduction, irrigation, sediment control, fish and wildlife enhancement, wetland and wetland function creation and restoration, groundwater recharge, easements, wetland and floodplain conservation easements, hydropower, watershed dam rehabilitation.[29]
Plants and animals[edit]
Plants and animals play a huge role in the health of our ecosystems. A delicate balance exists between relationships of plants and animals. If an animal is introduced to an ecosystem that is not native to the region that it could destroy plants or animals that should not have to protect itself from this particular threat. As well as if a plant ends up in a specific area where it should not be it could have adverse effects on the wildlife that try to eat it. NRCS protects the plants and animals because they provide us with food, materials for shelter, fuel to keep us warm, and air to breathe.[30] Without functioning ecosystems we would have none of the things mentioned above. NRCS provides guidance to assist conservationists and landowners with enhancing plant and animal populations as well as helping them deal with invasive species.[30]
Fish and wildlife[edit]
NRCS for years has been working toward restoration, creation, enhancement, and maintenance for aquatic life on the nearly 70% of land that is privately owned in order to keep the habitats and wildlife protected.[31] NRCS with a science-based approach, provides equipment to wildlife and fish management. They also do this for landowners who qualify .[31]
Insects and pollinators[edit]
Pollination by insects plays a huge role in the production of food crop and flowering plants. Without pollinators searching for nectar and pollen for food the plants would not produce a seed that will create another plant. NRCS sees the importance of this process so they are taking measures to increase the declining number of pollinators.[32] There are many resources provided from the NRCS that will help any individual do their part in conservation of these important insects. Such as Backyard Conservation which tells an individual exactly how to help by just creating a small habitat in minutes. There are many others such as: Plants for pollinators, pollinators habitat in pastures, pollinator value of NRCS plant releases in conservation planting, plant materials publications relating to insects and pollinators, PLANTS database: NRCS pollinator documents.[32] All of these are valuable resources that any individual can take advantage of.
Invasive species and pests[edit]
Invasive species cause America's reduction in economic productivity and ecological decline.[33] NRCS works in collaboration with the plant materials centers scattered throughout the country in order to get a handle on the invasive species of plants. These centers scout out the plants and take measures to control and eradicate them from the particular area.[34]
Livestock[edit]
Livestock management is an area of interest for the NRCS because if not maintained valuable resources such as food, wools, and leather would not be available. The proper maintenance of livestock can also improve soil and water resources by providing a waste management system so that run off and erosion is not a problem.[35] The NRCS provides financial assistance to land owners with grazing land and range land that is used by livestock in order to control the run off of waste into fresh water systems and prevent soil erosion.[35]
Plants[edit]
Plants are a huge benefit to the health of ecosystems. NRCS offers significant amounts of resources to individuals interested in conserving plants. From databases full of information to financial assistance the NRCS works hard to provide the means needed to do so. The plant materials program, Plant materials centers, Plant materials specialists, PLANTS database, National Plant Data Team (NPDT) are all used together to keep our ecosystems as healthy as possible.[36] This includes getting rid of unwanted species and building up species that have been killed off that are beneficial to the environment.  
The NRCS utilizes a very wide range of interdisciplinary resources.
The NRCS also utilizes the following disciplines in order to maximize efficiency: 
Agronomy
Erosion
Air Quality and Atmospheric Change
Animal Feeding Operations and Confined Animal Feeding Operations
Biology
Conservation Innovation Grants
Conservation Practices
Cultural Resources
Economics
Energy
Engineering
Environmental Compliance
Field Office Technical Guide
Forestry,
Maps
Data and Analysis
Nutrient Management
Pest Management
Range and Pasture
Social Sciences
Soils, and Water Resources
These Science-Based technologies are all used together in order to provide the best conservation of natural resources possible.[20]
Supported organizations[edit]
Great Basin Plant Materials Center based in Fallon, Nevada.[37]
Established in 2006, the GBVPMC serves Nevada, California, and parts of Utah and Oregon. The main purpose of the center is to combat damage done by invasive plant species in the area, which have done great damage to ecosystems in the Great Basin. They also aid in restoring ecosystems damaged by fires, climate change, drought, or other natural disasters. The centers provides native plants to help restore these damaged areas. They also do work developing plant organisms and technologies that are suited for the dry, high salt content soil of the area.[38]
National Association of Conservation Districts
(NACD) A non-profit agency which serves 3,000 conservation districts across the United States. There about 17,000 individuals who serve on the governing boards of conservation districts. Local conservation districts work with landowners to help manage land and water resources. The mission of NACD is to provide leadership and a unified voice for natural resource conservation in the United States.[39] The NACD grew in the 1930s from a statewide operation in Oklahoma, and many independent districts, to a unified National organization in 1946.
See also[edit]
Arlen Lancaster
Conservation technical assistance
Resource Management System
Title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations
Dust Bowl
Environmental Quality Incentives Program
Honey Hollow Watershed
National Cooperative Soil Survey
References[edit]
^ "People". Natural Resources Conservation Service. Archived from the original on 2017-08-04. Retrieved January 27, 2018..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). Washington, DC. "Soil Survey Programs." Archived 2011-07-26 at the Wayback Machine Accessed 2009-06-05.
^ NRCS. "National Conservation Practice Standards." Archived 2011-06-11 at the Wayback Machine National Handbook of Conservation Practices. Accessed 2009-06-05.
^ a b Cook, Maurice. "Hugh Hammond Bennett: the Father of Soil Conservation". Department of Soil Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. North Carolina State University. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 30 September 2011.
^ "Biography of Hugh Hammond Bennett". NRCS. Archived from the original on 2007-12-27. Retrieved 2008-01-10.
^ Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, P.L. 74-46, 49 Stat. 163, 16 U.S.C. § 590(e), April 27, 1935.
^ a b "Records of the Natural Resources Conservation Service". NARA. Archived from the original on 2007-12-07. Retrieved 2008-01-10.
^ Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). Archived 2013-05-30 at the Wayback Machine U-S-History.com, Online Highways LLC. Retrieved July 27, 2014.
^ Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, 108 Stat. 3223, October 13, 1994.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-10-31. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. 2013-09-30. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Ag Water Management Summit | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Water Management | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Purpose of the CTA Program | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Gulf of Mexico Initiative | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "International Programs | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "International Technical Assistance | NRCS | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-02. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2017-10-16. Retrieved 2017-10-16.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "Soil Health | NRCS". www.nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2016-01-08. Retrieved 2015-11-28.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service" (in Spanish). Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b Oenema, Oene; van Liere, Lowie; Schoumans, Oscar (2005). "Effects of lowering nitrogen and phosphorus surpluses in agriculture on the quality of groundwater and surface water in the Netherlands". Journal of Hydrology. 304 (1–4): 289–301. doi:10.1016/j.jhydrol.2004.07.044.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2 May 2018. Retrieved 8 May 2018.
^ "Drainage | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Conservation Engineering Division (CED) | NRCS". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2016-01-08. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service" (in Greek). Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-02. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-08-18. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2016-01-08. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ a b "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-03. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "USDA NRCS - Natural Resources Conservation Service". Nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-05. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "Great Basin Plant Materials Center". USDA NRCS. Archived from the original on 8 October 2010. Retrieved 22 October 2010.
^ "Great Basin Plant Materials Center | NRCS Plant Materials Program". Plant-materials.nrcs.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 2013-11-04. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
^ "About NACD". Nacdnet.org. Archived from the original on 2012-10-20. Retrieved 2013-10-31.
External links[edit]
Wikidata has the property: 
 USDA PLANTS ID (P1772) (see uses)
Natural Resources Conservation Service - Official site
vteUnited States government agencies involved in environmental science
Environmental Protection Agency
Global Change Research Program
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
National Science Foundation
Smithsonian Institution
Department of the Interior
Bureau of Indian Affairs
Bureau of Land Management
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
Bureau of Reclamation
National Park Service
United States Fish and Wildlife Service
United States Geological Survey
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Insular and International Affairs
Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation, and Enforcement
Department of Commerce
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Geodetic Survey
Marine Fisheries Service
Ocean Service
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research
Weather Service
Department of Energy
Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
Office of Environmental Management
Office of Science
National Laboratories and Technology Centers
Department of Agriculture
Agricultural Research Service
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Farm Service Agency
Food and Nutrition Service
Foreign Agricultural Service
Natural Resources Conservation Service (National Water and Climate Center)
Rural Utilities Service
Forest Service
Department of Homeland Security
Science and Technology Directorate
United States Coast Guard
Department of Health and Human Services
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
Department of Defense
Air Force Research Laboratory
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Joint Typhoon Warning Center
Office of Naval Research
Combat Capabilities Development Command
vteAgencies under the United States Department of Agriculture
Headquarters: Jamie L. Whitten Building
Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture
Stephen Censky, Deputy Secretary of Agriculture
Under Secretary of Agriculture forTrade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs
Foreign Agricultural Service
United States Codex Office
Under Secretary of Agriculture forNatural Resources and Environment
Forest Service
Under Secretary of Agriculture forRural Development
Rural Housing Service
Rural Utilities Service
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
Under Secretary of Agriculture forFood, Nutrition, and Consumer Services
Food and Nutrition Service (Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion)
Under Secretary of Agriculture forFood Safety
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Under Secretary of Agriculture forResearch, Education, and Economics
Agricultural Research Service (National Agricultural Library)
National Agricultural Statistics Service
Economic Research Service
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
Office of the Chief Scientist
Under Secretary of Agriculture forMarketing and Regulatory Programs
Agricultural Marketing Service
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Under Secretary of Agriculture forFarm Production and Conservation
Farm Service Agency (Commodity Credit Corporation)
Risk Management Agency (Federal Crop Insurance Corporation)
Natural Resources Conservation Service
Farm Production and Conservation Business Center
Office of the Chief Financial Officer
National Finance Center
*Reports directly to the Secretary of Agriculture
vteTaxonbar databasesABA • ADW • AFD • AfroMoths • AlgaeBase • AmphibiaWeb • AntWeb • AoI • AoFP • APA • APDB • APNI • APSA • Araneae • ARKive • ASW • ATRF • Avibase • BacDive • BAMONA • BHL • BioLib • BirdLife • BirdLife-Australia • BOLD • BTO • BugGuide • ButMoth • Calflora • Cal-IPC • Center • CMS • CNPS • Cockroach Species File • Conifers.org • Coreoidea Species File • eBird • Ecocrop • ECOS • eFloraSA • EoL • EPPO • EUNIS • Euring • Fauna Europaea • Fauna Europaea (new) • FEIS • FishBase • FloraBase • FLOW • FNA • FoAO • FoAO2 • FoC • FoIO • Fossilworks • Fungorum • GBIF • GISD • GNAB • GONIAT • GrassBase • GRIN • IBC • iNaturalist • IPA • IPNI • IRMNG • ISC • ITIS • IUCN • LepIndex • LoB • LPSN • Mantodea Species File • MichiganFlora • MoBotPF • MoL • MNHN • MONA • MSW • MycoBank • NAS • NBN • NCBI • Neotropical • NOAA • NSWFlora • NTFlora • NZBO • NZOR • NZPCN • ODNR • Orthoptera Species File • PalDat • Panartic Flora • PfaF • PFI • Phasmida Species File • PPE • Plant List • PLANTS • Plazi • POWO • RD • SANBI • SCC • SeaLifeBase • SEINet • Species+ • SPRAT • Steere • Tree of Life • Tropicos • TSA • uBio • VASCAN • VicFlora • Watson &amp; Dallwitz • WCSP • WiO • WisFlora • WoI • WFO • WoRMS • WSC • Xeno-canto • ZooBank • eMonocot • World Spider Catalog
Authority control 
ISNI: 0000 0001 1942 3888
LCCN: no95017392
NKC: ko2008416763
VIAF: 151620490
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no95017392
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Natural_Resources_Conservation_Service&amp;oldid=977804391"
		Categories: Irrigation in the United StatesUnited States Department of Agriculture agenciesNatural resources agencies in the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: archived copy as titleCS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 Greek-language sources (el)Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		فارسیIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNorsk bokmålСрпски / srpskiSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 11 September 2020, at 02:43 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
