	Taormina
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the town in Sicily. For people with the surname, see Taormina (surname).
Comune in Sicily, ItalyTaorminaTaurmina  (Sicilian)ComuneComune di Taormina  Mount Etna as seen from Taormina city center
Coat of armsLocation of Taormina
.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}TaorminaLocation of Taormina in ItalyShow map of ItalyTaorminaTaormina (Sicily)Show map of SicilyCoordinates: 37°51′8″N 15°17′31″E﻿ / ﻿37.85222°N 15.29194°E﻿ / 37.85222; 15.29194Coordinates: 37°51′8″N 15°17′31″E﻿ / ﻿37.85222°N 15.29194°E﻿ / 37.85222; 15.29194CountryItalyRegionSicilyMetropolitan cityMessina (ME)FrazioniMazzeo, Trappitello, Villagonia, Chianchitta, Spisone, MazzaròGovernment • MayorEligio GiardinaArea[1] • Total13 km2 (5 sq mi)Elevation204 m (669 ft)Population (2018-01-01)As of March 2009 • Total11,075 • Density850/km2 (2,200/sq mi)Demonym(s)TaorminesiTime zoneUTC+1 (CET) • Summer (DST)UTC+2 (CEST)Postal code98039Dialing code0942Patron saintSan Pancrazio di TaorminaSaint day9 JulyWebsiteOfficial website (in Italian)
  Coast looking northward from Taormina
  Coast looking Taormina
  Mediterranean sea as seen from Taormina
  Taormina as seen from the Saracen castle overlooking the town.
  Taormina as seen from the Saracen castle overlooking the town.
Taormina (UK: /ˌtɑːɔːrˈmiːnə/ TAH-or-MEE-nə,[3] US: /-nɑː/ -⁠nah, also /taʊərˈ-/ towr-,[4][5] Italian: [ta.orˈmiːna]; Sicilian: Taurmina; Latin: Tauromenium; Ancient Greek: Ταυρομένιον, romanized: Tauroménion) is a comune (municipality) in the Metropolitan City of Messina, on the east coast of the island of Sicily, Italy. Taormina has been a tourist destination since the 19th century. Its beaches on the Ionian sea, including that of Isola Bella, are accessible via an aerial tramway built in 1992, and via highways from Messina in the north and Catania in the south. On 26–27 May 2017 Taormina hosted the 43rd G7 summit.
Contents
1 History
1.1 Ancient Tauromenion
1.2 Middle Ages
1.3 Modern age
2 Main sights
3 Culture and tourism
4 Cultural references
5 Events
6 People
7 See also
8 References
9 Sources
10 External links
History[edit]
Ancient Tauromenion[edit]
The area around Taormina was inhabited by the Siculi even before the Greeks arrived on the Sicilian coast in 734 BC to found a town called Naxos. The theory that Tauromenion was founded by colonists from Naxos is confirmed by Strabo and other ancient writers.[citation needed] Pseudo-Scylax writes that it was a Greek city.[6]
The new settlement seems to have risen rapidly to prosperity, and was apparently already a considerable town at the time of Timoleon's expedition in 345 BC. It was the first place in Sicily where that leader landed, having eluded the vigilance of the Carthaginians, who were guarding the Straits of Messina, and crossed direct from Rhegium (modern Reggio di Calabria) to Tauromenium.[7] The city was at that time still under the government of Andromachus, whose mild and equitable administration is said to have presented a strong contrast with that of the despots and tyrants of the other Sicilian cities. He welcomed Timoleon with open arms, and afforded him a secure resting place until he was enabled to carry out his plans in other parts of Sicily.[8] Andromachus was not deprived of his position of power when all the other tyrants were expelled by Timoleon, but was permitted to retain it undisturbed till his death.[9]
Little is recorded about Tauromenium for some time after this. It is probable that it passed under the authority of Agathocles, who drove the historian Timaeus into exile; and some time after this it was subject to a domestic despot of the name of Tyndarion, who was contemporary with Hicetas of Syracuse and Phintias of Agrigentum.[10] Tyndarion was one of those who concurred in inviting Pyrrhus into Sicily (278 BC), and when that monarch landed with his army at Tauromenium, joined him with all his forces, and supported him in his march upon Syracuse.[11] A few years later, we find that Tauromenium had fallen into the power of Hieron II of Syracuse, and was employed by him as a stronghold in the war against the Mamertines. (Id. p. 497.) It was also one of the cities which was left under his dominion by the treaty concluded with him by the Romans in 263 BC.[12]
There is no doubt that Tauromenium continued to form a part of the kingdom of Syracuse until the death of Hieron, and that it only passed under the government of Rome when the whole island of Sicily was reduced to a Roman province; but we have scarcely any account of the part it took during the Second Punic War, though it would appear, from a hint in Appian,[13] that it submitted to Marcellus on favorable terms; and it is probable that it was on that occasion it obtained the peculiarly favored position it enjoyed under the Roman dominion. For we learn from Cicero that Tauromenium was one of the three cities in Sicily which enjoyed the privileges of a civitas foederata or allied city, thus retaining a nominal independence, and was not even subject, like Messina, to the obligation of furnishing ships of war when called upon.[14] The city, however, suffered severe calamities during the Servile War in Sicily (134–132 BC), having fallen into the hands of the insurgent slaves, who, on account of the great strength of its position, made it one of their chief posts, and were able for a long time to defy the arms of the consul Publius Rupilius. They held out until they were reduced to the most fearful extremities by famine, when the citadel was at length betrayed into the hands of the consul by one of their leaders named Sarapion, and the whole of the survivors put to the sword.[15]
  Roman Odeon constructed by the Romans in 21 BC for small performances frequented by the local Roman elite
Tauromenium again played a conspicuous part during the wars of Sextus Pompeius in Sicily, and, from its strength as a fortress, was one of the principal points of the position which he took up in 36 BC, for defence against Octavian. It became the scene also of a sea-fight between a part of the fleet of Octavian, commanded by the triumvir in person, and that of Pompeius, which terminated in the defeat and almost total destruction of the latter.[16] In the settlement of Sicily after the defeat of Pompeius, Tauromenium was one of the places selected by Augustus to receive a Roman colony, probably as a measure of precaution, on account of the strength of its situation, as we are told that he expelled the former inhabitants to make room for his new colonists.[17] Strabo speaks of it as one of the cities on the east coast of Sicily that was still subsisting in his time, though inferior in population both to Messana and Catana.[18] Both Pliny and Ptolemy assign it the rank of a colonia,[19] and it seems to have been one of the few cities of Sicily that continued under the Roman Empire to be a place of some consideration. Its territory was noted for the excellence of its wine,[20] and produced also a kind of marble which seems to have been highly valued.[21] Juvenal also speaks of the sea off its rocky coast as producing the choicest mullets.[22]
The Itineraries place Tauromenium 32 miles from Messina, and the same distance from Catania.[23]
Middle Ages[edit]
  The tower of the 10th century Palazzo Corvaja showing the Arabic influence.
  The Duomo dates from the 13th century
  Casa Cipolla in Taormina dates from the 15th century.
After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, Taormina continued to rank as one of the more important towns of Sicily, and because of the strength of its position was one of the last places that was retained by the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) emperors; but it was taken by the Fatimids in 962 after a siege of 30 weeks. Taormina was renamed "Al-Mu'izziyya" in honour of Caliph al-Mu'izz (reigned 953–75). Muslim rule of the town (see History of Islam in southern Italy) lasted until 1078, when it was captured by the Norman count Roger I of Sicily. At this time Taormina and the surrounding Val Demone were still predominately Greek speaking.[24]
After the fall of the Normans and of their German (imperial) heirs, the Hohenstaufen, Taormina followed the history of Sicily under the Angevins and then the Crown of Aragon. In 1410 King Martin II of Sicily was elected here by the Sicilian Parliament. Later Taormina was under Spanish suzerainty, receiving the status of "city" in the 17th century.
In 1675 it was besieged by the French, who had occupied Messina. The troops sacked the town destroying the top part of the Middle Tower that divides Taormina between the ancient Greco-Roman section and the later medieval southern zone.
Modern age[edit]
  Hotel Victoria at 81 Corso Umberto where Oscar Wilde stayed in 1898
Under the Bourbon dynasty of the Kingdom of Two Sicilies, which lasted until 1860, Taormina did not have a relevant role; however, it obtained an easier access when part of the Catrabico promontory was partially cut and a seaside road connecting it to Messina and Catania was created. It received also a station on the second-oldest railroad in the region.
There is some speculation about Taormina being an early gentlemen's destination.[25] Capri had a similar reputation, as tolerant of gay men and artists. Taormina's first important tourist was Johann Wolfgang Goethe, who exalted it in Italian Journey, a record of his 1786 journey published in 1816.  Starting from the 19th century Taormina became a popular tourist resort in the whole of Europe: people who visited Taormina include Oscar Wilde, Nicholas I of Russia, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Friedrich Nietzsche (who wrote his Thus Spoke Zarathustra there), Richard Wagner and many others. In the late 19th century, the city gained further prominence as the place where Wilhelm von Gloeden worked most of his life as a photographer of predominantly male nudes.
Also credited for making Taormina popular was Otto Geleng (1843-1939), a German landscape painter who settled there from the 1860s. He was one of the first artists to capture the beauties of Sicily, and his exhibitions in Berlin and Paris lured northern Europeans to see for themselves. He married an Italian woman and settled in Taormina, renovating a palazzo into the first full-scale hotel to greet these visitors.
In 1905, the English artist Robert Hawthorn Kitson, heir to Kitson and Company but driven from Britain by homophobia, built a house in Taormina.[26] He commissioned Frank Brangwyn to design murals and furniture for the Casa Cuseni. Alfred East also contributed.[27] The property, including extensive gardens, was inherited by his niece Daphne Phelps just after World War II. She intended to sell, but ended up staying, running the place as a pensione for half a century, with guests such as Bertrand Russell, Roald Dahl, Henry Faulkner, and Tennessee Williams. In 1999 she wrote A House in Sicily about life in Taormina in general and Casa Cuseni in particular.[28]
In 1907, the English architect C. R. Ashbee, a prime mover of the Arts and Crafts movement, came to Taormina on commission from an old client. Colonel Shaw-Hellier set him the task of designing the Villa San Giorgio,[29][30] Biographer Fiona MacCarthy judges it "the most impressive of Ashbee's remaining buildings";[31] it is run as the Hotel Ashbee.
During the early 20th century, the town became a colony of expatriate artists, writers and intellectuals. Albert Stopford grew roses in his Edwardian garden; D. H. Lawrence stayed at the Fontana Vecchia from 1920 to 1922. (He wrote a number of his poems, novels, short stories and essays, and the travel book Sea and Sardinia.) Thirty years later, from April 1950 through September 1951, the same villa was home to Truman Capote, who wrote of his stay in the essay "Fontana Vecchia." Jean Cocteau and Jean Marais visited the place.[32] Charles Webster Leadbeater, the theosophical author, found out that Taormina had the right magnetic fields for Jiddu Krishnamurti to develop his talents, so the young Krishnamurti spent part of 1912 in the city.[33] 
By this time Taormina had become "a polite synonym for Sodom", as Harold Acton described it.  Later, however, after the Second World War Acton was visiting Taormina with Evelyn Waugh and, coming upon a board advertising "Ye Olde English Teas” he sighed and commented that Taormina 'was now quite as boring as Bournemouth'.
Icelandic writer Halldór Laxness, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1955, wrote most of his first novel, Vefarinn mikli frá Kasmír ("The Great Weaver from Kashmir"), in Taormina which he then praised highly in his book of autobiographical essays, Skáldatími ("The Time of the Poet", 1963).
The 43rd G7 summit was held in the town on 26–27 May 2017.
Main sights[edit]
The present town of Taormina occupies the ancient site, on a hill which forms the last projecting point of the mountain ridge that extends along the coast from Cape Pelorus to this point. The site of the old town is about 250 metres (820 ft) above the sea, while a very steep and almost isolated rock, crowned by a Saracen castle, rises about 150 metres (490 ft) higher. This is the likely site of the ancient Arx or citadel, an inaccessible position mentioned by ancient writers. Portions of the ancient walls may be traced at intervals all round the brow of the hill, the whole of the summit of which was occupied by the ancient city. Numerous fragments of ancient buildings are scattered over its whole surface, including extensive reservoirs of water, sepulchres, tessellated pavements, etc., and the remains of a spacious edifice, commonly called a Naumachia, but the real purpose of which it is difficult to determine.
The Ancient theatre of Taormina is built for the most part of brick, and is therefore probably of Roman date, though the plan and arrangement are in accordance with those of Greek, rather than Roman, theatres; whence it is supposed that the present structure was rebuilt upon the foundations of an older theatre of the Greek period. With a diameter of 109 metres (358 ft) (after an expansion in the 2nd century), this theatre is the second largest of its kind in Sicily (after that of Syracuse); it is frequently used for operatic and theatrical performances and for concerts. The greater part of the original seats have disappeared, but the wall which surrounded the whole cavea is preserved, and the proscenium with the back wall of the scena and its appendages, of which only traces remain in most ancient theatres, are here preserved in an uncommon state of integrity. From the fragments of architectural decorations still extant we learn that it was of the Corinthian order, and richly ornamented. Some portions of a temple are also visible, converted into the church of San Pancrazio, but the edifice is of small size.
Other sights include the 10th century Palazzo Corvaja, a 1635 Baroque fountain, the Church of San Domenico, the Anglican Church of Saint George, and the municipal gardens (Giardini della Villa Comunale).
Culture and tourism[edit]
Just south of Taormina is the Isola Bella, a nature reserve; and further south, situated beside a bay, is the popular seaside resort of Giardini Naxos. Tours of the Capo Sant'Andrea grottos are also available.
The town of Taormina is perched on a cliff overlooking the Ionian Sea. Besides the ancient Greek theatre, it has many old churches, lively bars, fine restaurants and antique shops. The Santuario Madonna della Rocca is one such church. Located on the slope above the town, it commands an impressive view of the coast and Mount Etna to the south, and is accessible on foot via the staired path, Salita Castello. Taormina is approximately a forty-five-minute drive away from Europe's largest active volcano, Mount Etna.
Cultural references[edit]
Taormina inspired the naming of 'Toormina', a suburb of Coffs Harbour, New South Wales, Australia.[34]
The Cole Porter song "Where is the Life That Late I Led" from the musical "Kiss Me, Kate" references Taormina.
A part of the movie The Big Blue (1988) was set and filmed in Taormina, where the main characters take part in the no limits freediving World Championships.
The British songwriter Mark Knopfler evokes the town in his song "Lights of Taormina" in his 2015 album Tracker.
D.H. Lawrence signed his poem "Snake" with the word "Taormina"—perhaps the location of his "petty" encounter.
Events[edit]
Many exhibitions and events are organized during the summer in Taormina. The exceptional stage for pop and classical concerts, opera and important performances often recorded by television (for example, the ceremony of the Silver Ribbon Award, the Festivalbar, the Kore) is the Ancient Theatre.
Since 1983, the most important performances are realized by Taormina Arte, the cultural institution which organizes a music, theatre and dance festivals.
Within the program of Taormina Arte there is the Taormina Film Fest, the heir of the Cinema Festival of Messina and Taormina, dating from 1960, which for about twenty years has hosted the David of Donatello Awards. During the Taormina Film Fest the Silver Ribbons are awarded, a prize created by Italian Film Journalists.
Since 2005, in October, Taormina Arte has organized the Giuseppe Sinopoli Festival, a festival dedicated to its late artistic director.
People[edit]
Tyndarion (278 BC), tyrant of Tauromenium
Pancras of Taormina, sent to Sicily in 40 AD by Saint Peter as first Bishop of Tauromenium
Wilhelm von Gloeden (1856 in Wismar – 1931 in Taormina), German photographer who worked mainly in Italy, best known for his pastoral nude studies of Sicilian boys. Resident from 1880
Pancrazio Buciunì (1879 - 1963), Gloeden's model, lover and heir
Gayelord Hauser (1895-1984), Nutritionist and author
Robert Hawthorn Kitson, (1873 in Leeds - 1947 in Casa Cuseni), British watercolour painter, resident from 1899
Daphne Phelps (1911 – 2005), Kitson's niece and heir, a writer. Resident from c. 1947.
Carla Cassola (born 1947), actress and composer.
Francesco Buzzurro (born 1969), musician
Guido Caprino (born 1974), actor
Norma Murabito (born 1987), sprint canoeist
See also[edit]
List of Catholic dioceses in Italy
European archaeology
References[edit]
^ "Superficie di Comuni Province e Regioni italiane al 9 ottobre 2011". Istat. Retrieved 16 March 2019..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Popolazione Residente al 1° Gennaio 2018". Istat. Retrieved 16 March 2019.
^ "Taormina". Lexico UK Dictionary. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 20 July 2019.
^ "Taormina". The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (5th ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. Retrieved 20 July 2019.
^ "Taormina". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Retrieved 20 July 2019.
^ Pseudo Scylax, Periplous, §13
^ Diod. xvi. 68; Plut. Timol. 10.
^ Diod. l. c.; Plut. l. c.
^ Marcellin. Vit. Thucyd. § 27.
^ Diod. xxii. Exc. H. p. 495.
^ Diod. l. c. pp. 495, 496.
^ Diod. xxiii. p. 502.
^ Sic. 5
^ Cic. Verr. ii. 6. 6, iii. 6, v. 19.
^ Diod. xxxiv. Exc. Phot. p. 528; Oros. v. 9.
^ Appian, B.C. v. 103, 105, 106-11, 116; Dion Cass. xlix. 5.
^ Diod, xvi. 7.
^ Strab. vi. pp. 267, 268.
^ Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 9
^ Plin. xiv. 6. s. 8
^ Athen. v. p. 207.
^ Juv. v. 93.
^ Itin. Ant. p. 90; Tab. Peut.
^ Loud, G. A. (2007). The Latin Church in Norman Italy. Cambridge University Press. p. 494. ISBN 978-0-521-25551-6. At the end of the twelfth century ... While in Apulia Greeks were in a majority – and indeed present in any numbers at all – only in the Salento peninsula in the extreme south, at the time of the conquest they had an overwhelming preponderance in Lucaina and central and southern Calabria, as well as comprising anything up to a third of the population of Sicily, concentrated especially in the north-east of the island, the Val Demone.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2 January 2014. Retrieved 2 January 2014.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Bradford, Eveleigh. "Robert Hawthorn Kitson (1873-1947) Artist, Patron, Exile". The Historical Society for Leeds and District. Retrieved 6 October 2017.
^ Boswell, David M (28 January 2006). "Obituary: Daphne Phelps". The Guardian. Retrieved 6 October 2017.
^ Phelps, Daphne (2000). A House in Sicily. ISBN 1860496482.
^ RIBA archive drawings
^ MacCarthy, Fiona. The Simple Life: C.R. Ashbee in the Cotswolds. University of California Press, 1981. Most of chapter 7, "The death of Conradin"
^ MacCarthy, Fiona. The Simple Life: C.R. Ashbee in the Cotswolds. University of California Press, 1981. p 161
^ Edward Chaney (2014). The Evolution of the Grand Tour: Anglo-Italian Cultural Relations since the Renaissance. Routledge. p. 38. ISBN 978-1-317-97367-6.
^ Ross, Joseph E. Krishnamurti The Taormina Seclusion 1912.
^ "A Village to Make Us Proud", The Coffs Coast Advocate
Sources[edit]
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. (1854–1857). "article name needed". Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography. London: John Murray. Cite has empty unknown parameters: |HIDE_PARAMETER= and |coauthors= (help)
External links[edit]
 Media related to Castelmola at Wikimedia Commons
 Castelmola travel guide from Wikivoyage
Official website
Taormina Arte official website
vteSicily · Comuni of the Metropolitan City of Messina
Acquedolci
Alcara li Fusi
Alì
Alì Terme
Antillo
Barcellona Pozzo di Gotto
Basicò
Brolo
Capizzi
Capo d'Orlando
Capri Leone
Caronia
Casalvecchio Siculo
Castel di Lucio
Castell'Umberto
Castelmola
Castroreale
Cesarò
Condrò
Falcone
Ficarra
Fiumedinisi
Floresta
Fondachelli-Fantina
Forza d'Agrò
Francavilla di Sicilia
Frazzanò
Furci Siculo
Furnari
Gaggi
Galati Mamertino
Gallodoro
Giardini Naxos
Gioiosa Marea
Graniti
Gualtieri Sicaminò
Itala
Leni
Letojanni
Librizzi
Limina
Lipari
Longi
Malfa
Malvagna
Mandanici
Mazzarrà Sant'Andrea
Merì
Messina
Milazzo
Militello Rosmarino
Mirto
Mistretta
Mojo Alcantara
Monforte San Giorgio
Mongiuffi Melia
Montagnareale
Montalbano Elicona
Motta Camastra
Motta d'Affermo
Naso
Nizza di Sicilia
Novara di Sicilia
Oliveri
Pace del Mela
Pagliara
Patti
Pettineo
Piraino
Raccuja
Reitano
Roccafiorita
Roccalumera
Roccavaldina
Roccella Valdemone
Rodì Milici
Rometta
San Filippo del Mela
San Fratello
San Marco d'Alunzio
San Pier Niceto
San Piero Patti
San Salvatore di Fitalia
Santa Domenica Vittoria
Sant'Agata di Militello
Sant'Alessio Siculo
Santa Lucia del Mela
Santa Marina Salina
Sant'Angelo di Brolo
Santa Teresa di Riva
San Teodoro
Santo Stefano di Camastra
Saponara
Savoca
Scaletta Zanclea
Sinagra
Spadafora
Taormina
Terme Vigliatore
Torregrotta
Torrenova
Tortorici
Tripi
Tusa
Ucria
Valdina
Venetico
Villafranca Tirrena
vteAncient Greece
Timeline
HistoryGeographyPeriods
Cycladic civilization
Minoan civilization
Mycenaean civilization
Greek Dark Ages
Archaic period
Classical Greece
Hellenistic Greece
Roman Greece
Geography
Aegean Sea
Aeolis
Alexandria
Antioch
Cappadocia
Crete
Cyprus
Doris
Ephesus
Epirus
Hellespont
Ionia
Ionian Sea
Macedonia
Magna Graecia
Miletus
Peloponnesus
Pergamon
Pontus
Taurica
Ancient Greek colonies
City statesPoliticsMilitaryCity states
Argos
Athens
Byzantion
Chalcis
Corinth
Eretria
Kerkyra
Larissa
Megalopolis
Megara
Rhodes
Samos
Sparta
Syracuse
Thebes
Politics
Boule
Koinon
Proxeny
Strategos
Tagus
Tyrant
Amphictyonic League
Athenian
Agora
Areopagus
Ecclesia
Graphe paranomon
Heliaia
Ostracism
Spartan
Apella
Ephor
Gerousia
Macedon
Synedrion
Koinon
Military
Wars
Athenian military
Scythian archers
Antigonid Macedonian army
Army of Macedon
Ballista
Cretan archers
Hellenistic armies
Hippeis
Hoplite
Hetairoi
Macedonian phalanx
Phalanx
Peltast
Pezhetairos
Sarissa
Sacred Band of Thebes
Sciritae
Seleucid army
Spartan army
Toxotai
Xiphos
Xyston
PeopleList of ancient GreeksRulers
Kings of Argos
Archons of Athens
Kings of Athens
Kings of Commagene
Diadochi
Kings of Lydia
Kings of Macedonia
Kings of Paionia
Attalid kings of Pergamon
Kings of Pontus
Kings of Sparta
Tyrants of Syracuse
Philosophers
Anaxagoras
Anaximander
Anaximenes
Antisthenes
Aristotle
Democritus
Diogenes of Sinope
Empedocles
Epicurus
Gorgias
Heraclitus
Hypatia
Leucippus
Parmenides
Plato
Protagoras
Pythagoras
Socrates
Thales
Zeno
Authors
Aeschylus
Aesop
Alcaeus
Archilochus
Aristophanes
Bacchylides
Euripides
Herodotus
Hesiod
Hipponax
Homer
Ibycus
Lucian
Menander
Mimnermus
Panyassis
Philocles
Pindar
Plutarch
Polybius
Sappho
Simonides
Sophocles
Stesichorus
Theognis
Thucydides
Timocreon
Tyrtaeus
Xenophon
Others
Agesilaus II
Agis II
Alcibiades
Alexander the Great
Aratus
Archimedes
Aspasia
Demosthenes
Epaminondas
Euclid
Hipparchus
Hippocrates
Leonidas
Lycurgus
Lysander
Milo of Croton
Miltiades
Pausanias
Pericles
Philip of Macedon
Philopoemen
Praxiteles
Ptolemy
Pyrrhus
Solon
Themistocles
Groups
Philosophers
Playwrights
Poets
Tyrants
By culture
Ancient Greek tribes
Thracian Greeks
Ancient Macedonians
SocietyCultureSociety
Agriculture
Calendar
Clothing
Coinage
Cuisine
Economy
Education
Festivals
Funeral and burial practices
Homosexuality
Law
Olympic Games
Pederasty
Philosophy
Prostitution
Religion
Slavery
Warfare
Wedding customs
Wine
Arts and science
Architecture
Greek Revival architecture
Astronomy
Literature
Mathematics
Medicine
Music
Musical system
Pottery
Sculpture
Technology
Theatre
Religion
Funeral and burial practices
Mythology
mythological figures
Temple
Twelve Olympians
Underworld
Sacred places
Eleusis
Delphi
Delos
Dion
Dodona
Mount Olympus
Olympia
Structures
Athenian Treasury
Lion Gate
Long Walls
Philippeion
Theatre of Dionysus
Tunnel of Eupalinos
Temples
Aphaea
Artemis
Athena Nike
Erechtheion
Hephaestus
Hera, Olympia
Parthenon
Samothrace
Zeus, Olympia
Language
Proto-Greek
Mycenaean
Homeric
Dialects
Aeolic
Arcadocypriot
Attic
Doric
Ionic
Locrian
Macedonian
Pamphylian
Koine
Writing
Linear A
Linear B
Cypriot syllabary
Greek alphabet
Greek numerals
Attic numerals
Greek colonisationSouth Italy
Alision
Brentesion
Caulonia
Chone
Croton
Cumae
Elea
Heraclea Lucania
Hipponion
Hydrus
Krimisa
Laüs
Locri
Medma
Metapontion
Neápolis
Pandosia (Lucania)
Poseidonia
Pixous
Rhegion
Scylletium
Siris
Sybaris
Sybaris on the Traeis
Taras
Terina
Thurii
Sicily
Akragas
Akrai
Akrillai
Apollonia
Calacte
Casmenae
Catana
Gela
Helorus
Henna
Heraclea Minoa
Himera
Hybla Gereatis
Hybla Heraea
Kamarina
Leontinoi
Megara Hyblaea
Messana
Naxos
Segesta
Selinous
Syracuse
Tauromenion
Thermae
Tyndaris
Aeolian Islands
Didyme
Euonymos
Ereikousa
Hycesia
Lipara/Meligounis
Phoenicusa
Strongyle
Therassía
Sardinia
Olbia
Cyrenaica
Balagrae
Barca
Berenice
Cyrene (Apollonia)
Ptolemais
Iberian Peninsula
Akra Leuke
Alonis
Emporion
Helike
Hemeroscopion
Kalathousa
Kypsela
Mainake
Menestheus's Limin
Illicitanus Limin/Portus Illicitanus
Rhode
Salauris
Zakynthos
Black Sea north coast
Borysthenes
Charax
Chersonesus
Dioscurias
Eupatoria
Gorgippia
Hermonassa
Kepoi
Kimmerikon
Myrmekion
Nikonion
Nymphaion
Olbia
Panticapaion
Phanagoria
Pityus
Tanais
Theodosia
Tyras
Tyritake
Black Sea south coast
Dionysopolis
Odessos
Anchialos
Mesambria
Apollonia
Salmydessus
Heraclea
Tium
Sesamus
Cytorus
Abonoteichos
Sinope
Zaliche
Amisos
Oinòe
Polemonion
Thèrmae
Cotyora
Kerasous
Tripolis
Trapezous
Rhizos
Athina
Bathus
Phasis
Lists
Cities
in Epirus
People
Place names
Stoae
Temples
Theatres
 Category
 Portal
 Outline
Authority control 
BNF: cb122076124 (data)
GND: 4059040-9
LCCN: n79145882
MusicBrainz: 604baae1-3c9f-408a-94c6-0036deef85fa
NKC: ge391171
VIAF: 139547239
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79145882
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Taormina&amp;oldid=979930840"
		Categories: Cities and towns in SicilyMunicipalities of the Metropolitan City of MessinaTaorminaCoastal towns in SicilyAncient Greek archaeological sites in ItalyAncient cities in SicilyArchaeological sites in SicilyColonies of sicilian NaxosEuboean colonies of Magna GraeciaRoman towns and cities in ItalyPopulated places established in the 8th century BC730s BC8th-century BC establishments in ItalyHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleUse dmy dates from May 2020Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles containing Sicilian-language textArticles containing Italian-language textCoordinates on WikidataArticles with Italian-language sources (it)Pages using infobox settlement with image map1 but not image mapArticles containing Latin-language textArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2018CS1 errors: empty unknown parametersWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the DGRG with no article parameterWikipedia articles incorporating text from the DGRGCommons link is locally definedOfficial website different in Wikidata and WikipediaWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz area identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiersPages using the Kartographer extension
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
		Languages
		العربيةԱրեւմտահայերէնتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБългарскиCatalàCebuanoČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlingueItalianoעבריתLatinaLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLumbaartMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語NapulitanoNorsk bokmålOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSicilianuSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogTarandíneTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoVolapükWinaray中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 23 September 2020, at 16:10 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
