	Thanksgiving after Communion
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Thanksgiving after Communion" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (August 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Thanksgiving after Communion is a spiritual practice among Christians who believe in the Real Presence of Jesus Christ in the  Communion bread, maintaining themselves in prayer for some time to thank God and especially listening in their hearts for guidance from their Divine guest. This practice was and is highly recommended by saints, theologians, and Doctors of the Church.
Contents
1 Basis of the practice
2 Practice of the saints
3 Length of time
4 Prayer during thanksgiving
4.1 Catholic
4.2 Anglican
4.3 Lutheran
4.4 Eastern Orthodox
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
Basis of the practice[edit]
  St. John Chrysostom: "When we have received the precious Body of Jesus Christ, we should take care not to lose its heavenly flavor by turning too soon to the cares and business of the world."[1]
In John 6:51, Jesus is quoted as saying, "I am the living bread that came down from heaven; whoever eats this bread will live forever; and the bread that I will give is my flesh for the life of the world." According to Catholic doctrine, bread is transubstantiated into the "Body and Blood, Soul and Divinity of Jesus Christ." The same holds true for the wine, which in Catholic doctrine is also "the Body, Blood, Soul, and Divinity of Jesus Christ".
Pope John-Paul II in Inaestimabile Donum (Instruction Concerning Worship of the Eucharistic Mystery) emphasized the importance of adoration and prayer after Holy Communion.[2] "The faithful are to be recommended not to omit to make a proper thanksgiving after Communion. They may do this during the celebration with a period of silence, with a hymn, psalm or other song of praise, or also after the celebration, if possible by staying behind to pray for a suitable time."[3]
Reverence is that virtue which inclines a person to show honor and respect to God. According to Francis Cardinal Arinze, prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, Thanksgiving after Mass has traditionally been greatly esteemed in the Church for both the priest and the lay faithful. The missal and the breviary even suggest prayers for the priest before and after the Eucharistic celebration. There is no reason to believe that this is no longer needed. Indeed in our noisy world of today, such moments of reflective and loving prayers would seem indicated more than even before.[4]
Pope Benedict XVI  in Sacramentum Caritatis referred to the "precious time of thanksgiving after communion," urging everyone to preserve the importance of Communion as  "a personal encounter with the Lord Jesus in the sacrament." He recommended that during this time "it can also be most helpful to remain recollected in silence."[5]
Fr. Michael Muller, CSSR, explained the basis thus: When the Blessed Virgin Mary visited St. Elizabeth, the aged Saint was astonished at the condescension of the glorious Mother of God, and said: "Whence is this to me, that the Mother of my God should come to me?" Now, in Holy Communion, it is the Lord Himself that comes to us. To remain indifferent after having received the Blessed Eucharist is to show either a total want of faith or a levity and stupidity unworthy of a reasonable being. ...What a spectacle for the Angels, to see a creature approach that Sacred Host before which they bow in lowliest adoration ... leave the church with as much unconcern as if he had but partaken of ordinary bread![1]
Practice of the saints[edit]
St. Thomas Aquinas (+1274) composed a Prayer of Thanksgiving after Communion that became a classic:I thank You, O holy Lord, almighty Father, eternal God, who have deigned, not through any merits of mine, but out of the condescension of Your goodness, to satisfy me a sinner, Your unworthy servant, with the precious Body and Blood of Your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this Holy Communion be not a condemnation to punishment for me, but a saving plea to forgiveness. May it be to me the armor of faith and the shield of a good will. May it be the emptying out of my vices and the extinction of all lustful desires; and increase of charity and patience, of humility and obedience, and all virtues; a strong defense against the snares of all my enemies, visible and invisible; the perfect quieting of all my evil impulses of flesh and spirit, binding me firmly to You, the one true God; and a happy ending of my life. I pray too that You will deign to bring me, a sinner, to that ineffable banquet where You with Your Son and the Holy Spirit, are to your Saints true light, fulfillment of desires, eternal joy, unalloyed gladness, and perfect bliss. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.[6]
  Teresa of Ávila
After receiving Communion, many of the saints would spend an extended time of thanksgiving. Magdalena de Pazzi wrote, "The minutes that follow Communion are the most precious we have in our lives."[7] St. Teresa of Ávila urged her daughters not to rush out after Mass but to treasure the opportunity for thanksgiving: "Let us detain ourselves lovingly with Jesus," she said, "and not waste the hour that follows Communion."[7] St. Louis de Montfort wrote, "I would not give up this hour of Thanksgiving even for an hour of Paradise."[7]
Philip Neri once sent two acolytes with candles to accompany a member of his congregation who had left the church without any adoration after Mass.[2] The man returned to the church to find out St. Philip's purpose. The Saint answered, "We have to pay proper respect to Our Lord, Whom you are carrying away with you. Since you neglect to adore Him, I sent two acolytes to take your place."
Length of time[edit]
Part of a series on theEucharist Lord's Supper • Communion
Elements
Bread
Wine
Ritual and liturgy
Divine Liturgy
Divine Service
Mass
Requiem
Solemn
Consecration/Anaphora
Epiclesis
Words of Institution
Anamnesis
Practices and customs
Closed and Open Table
Communion under both kinds
Adoration
Discipline
Thanksgiving
Reserved sacrament
Feast of Corpus Christi
First Communion
Infant communion
Viaticum
Vessels
Paten
Chalice
History
Origin of the Eucharist
Catholic historical roots
Theology
Real presence
Consubstantiation
Impanation
Metousiosis
Receptionism
Sacramental union
Transignification
Transubstantiation
Memorialism
Sacrament
Ordinance
Denominational teachings
Anglican
Catholic
Latter-day Saint
Lutheran
Reformed
Related articles
Black Mass
Christian views on alcohol
Host desecration
vte
According to the Baltimore Catechism, Roman Catholics "should spend sufficient time in Thanksgiving after Holy Communion to show due reverence to the Blessed Sacrament; for Our Lord is personally with us as long as the appearance of bread and wine remains."[citation needed]
  Alphonsus Liguori
Through the years, the saints have varied in their recommendation as regards the amount of time to be spent in thanksgiving. Daily Communion only became the practice after a decree of Pope Pius X in 1905.[8] A number of saints referred to an hour of thanksgiving. St. Alphonsus specifically advises everyone to devote at least half an hour to it, if it is at all possible. "There is no prayer more agreeable to God, or more profitable to the soul," said another Doctor of the Church, St. Alphonsus Liguori, "than that which is made during the thanksgiving after Communion."
Josemaría Escrivá said: "Surely you have nothing so important on that you cannot give Our Lord 10 minutes to say thanks. Love is repaid with love."
Prayer during thanksgiving[edit]
According to Daniel A. Lord, SJ, thanksgiving after Holy Communion always supposes a "realization of who is present in our hearts: Jesus Christ, God-man, lover of souls, divinely powerful, humanly tender, with grace in His hands and the keenest possible interest in His heart for the one who has just received Him."[9] Traditional post-communion prayers include the Adoro te by Thomas Aquinas,[2] the Anima Christi,[10] the Prayer Before a Crucifix, and the Prayer of Saint Francis.
Catholic[edit]
According to Fr. Carlos Belmonte, author of Understanding the Mass,The content of our thanksgiving will be just a continuation of the sentiments and affections we have felt – or tried to foster in ourselves – during the Mass, but perhaps in an atmosphere of greater intimacy this time. Sometimes, acts of faith, hope, and charity addressed to the three divine Persons will spurt from our soul. At other times, we will maintain an intimate dialogue with Jesus, our divine Friend who will purify and transform us. Or perhaps, we will just be sitting still, in silent adoration, in the same manner that a mother watches over her son who has fallen asleep. We should not look for prayers or formulas, if we do not find any need for them. But if we realize they can help us, we should overcome our laziness (say, to open our missal and read the prayers for thanksgiving there), or that subtle kind of vanity which makes us feel humiliated by having to read prayers composed by somebody else."[11]
One of the recommended texts for thanksgiving in My Daily Psalm Book (1947), arranged by Joseph Frey, CSSP,  is the Canticle of the Three Young men, or Trium Puerorum.[12] This is a traditional canticle that is included in the prayers for thanksgiving in the Roman Missal of 1962.[13]
All things the Lord has made, bless the Lord.
Angels of the Lord! all bless the Lord.
Sun and moon! bless the Lord.
Stars of heaven! bless the Lord.
Showers and dews! all bless the Lord.
Winds! all bless the Lord.
Fire and heat! bless the Lord.
Dews and sleet! bless the Lord.
Light and darkness! bless the Lord.
Lightning and clouds! bless the Lord.
Mountains and hills! bless the Lord.
Every thing that grows on the earth! bless the Lord.
Let us praise and exalt him above all for ever.
There is also the "Universal Prayer" attributed to Pope Clement XI, which begins: "Lord, I believe in you: increase my faith. I trust in you: strengthen my trust. I love you: let me love you more and more. I am sorry for my sins: deepen my sorrow."[14]
Anglican[edit]
In the Anglican Communion and in the Catholic Personal Ordinariates, the following post-communion prayer, or a variant of it, is said:
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}Almighty and everliving God, we most heartily thank thee, for that thou dost vouchsafe to feed us, who have duly received these holy mysteries, with the spiritual food of the most precious Body and Blood of thy Son our Saviour Jesus Christ; and dost assure us thereby of thy favour and goodness towards us; and that we are very members incorporate in the mystical body of thy Son, which is the blessed company of all faithful people; and are also heirs through hope of thy everlasting kingdom, by the merits of the most precious death and passion of thy dear Son. And we most humbly beseech thee, O heavenly Father, so to assist us with thy grace, that we may continue in that holy fellowship, and do all such good works as thou hast prepared for us to walk in; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honour and glory, world without end. Amen.— 1662 Book of Common Prayer
In many Anglican Churches since the 1980s, the following has been a common post-communion prayer:
Father of all, we give you thanks and praise that, when we were still far off, you met us in your Son and brought us home.   Dying and living, he declared your love, gave us grace and opened the gate of glory.   May we who share Christ’s body live his risen life; we who drink his cup bring life to others; we whom the Spirit lights give light to the world.   Keep us firm in the hope you have set before us so we and all your children shall be free and the whole earth live to praise your name, through Christ our Lord. Amen.— Common Worship
Lutheran[edit]
Among Lutheran denominations, the following prayer may be said silently following the reception of the Eucharist:
Almighty and everlasting God, I thank and praise you for feeding me with the life-giving body and blood of your beloved son Jesus Christ. Send your Holy Spirit that, having with my mouth received the holy Sacrament, I may by faith obtain and eternally enjoy your divine grace, the forgiveness of sins, unity with Christ, and everlasting life; through Jesus Christ my Lord. Amen.— Lutheran Service Book
Eastern Orthodox[edit]
In the Eastern Orthodox Church there are various sets of prayers recommended both for Preparation for Communion and for Thanksgiving After Communion. The specific form will differ depending upon national jurisdiction.
Through the centuries, several prayers have been composed for this. Symeon Metaphrastes (probably 10th century) who is venerated by the Eastern Orthodox Church as a saint, and who is known for his Byzantine hagiography, composed the following Prayer of Thanksgiving after Communion which is found in the Hieratikon, or prayers for the priest.
O Thou who didst gladly give me Thy flesh for nourishment; who art fire to consume the unworthy: Burn me not, O my Creator, but search out my members. Quicken my reins and my heart. Let Thy flames devour the thorns of all my transgressions. Purify my soul. Sanctify my thoughts. Knit firm my bones. Enlighten my senses. Piece me with Thy fear. Be Thou my continual shield. Watch over and preserve me from every word and deed that corrupt the soul. Purge me and wash me clean and adorn me. Order my ways, give me understanding and enlighten me. Make me the temple of Thy Holy Ghost, and no more the habitation of sin, that as from fire all evil, every passion, may flee from me, who through Holy Communion am become a place for Thy dwelling. I bring unto Thee all the saints to make intercession: The ranks of the heavenly hosts; Thy forerunner; the wise Apostles; and withal Thy pure and holy Mother. Their prayers receive, O merciful Christ, and make Thy servant a child of light. For Thou art our hallowing, Thou only art the brightness of our souls, O gracious Lord: And we rightly give glory to Thee, our Lord and our God, All the days of our life. Amen.[15]
In the Russian Orthodox Church there are usually a set of five prayers that are recited after the conclusion of the Divine Liturgy.[16] After the dismissal of the Liturgy, those who have received Holy Communion will remain behind and pray as the prayers are recited by a Reader. The priest and other celebrating clergy will usually say the Prayers of Thanksgiving immediately after receiving Holy Communion. However, the deacon who will perform the ablutions will wait to say them after he has finished his duties at the Table of Oblation.
Among the prayers said is one by Saint Basil the Great:
O Master Christ God, King of the ages and Creator of all things, I thank Thee for all the good things which Thou hast bestowed upon me, and for the communion of Thy most pure and life-creating Mysteries. I pray Thee, therefore, O Good One and Lover of mankind: Keep me under Thy protection and in the shadow of Thy wings; and grant me, even until my last breath, to partake worthily and with a pure conscience, of Thy Holy Things, unto the remission of sins and life eternal. For Thou art the Bread of life, the Source of holiness, the Giver of good things; and unto Thee do we send up glory, together with the Father and the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen.[16]
The prayers usually end with the Nunc Dimittis and the Troparion and Kontakion of the saint who wrote the Liturgy that was celebrated (John Chrysostom, Basil the Great, Gregory Dialogist or, rarely, James the Brother of the Lord). Then the rite ends with a dismissal pronounced by the priest.
After the Prayers of Thanksgiving, the communicant should spend the rest of the day in a spirit of thanksgiving, engaging only in activities which are of benefit to the soul. If it is a Sunday or Holy Day he should rest from labour.
See also[edit]
Anima Christi
Eucharistic discipline
Prayer Before a Crucifix
Prayer of Saint Francis
References[edit]
^ a b Fongemie, Pauly. "THE BLESSED EUCHARIST". www.catholictradition.org. Retrieved 2017-07-16..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b c User, Super. "Thanksgiving After Holy Communion". Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ 31, The Editors December; 2007 (2007-12-31). "Inaestimabile Donum". Adoremus Bulletin. Retrieved 2017-07-16.CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
^ 15, The Editors December; 2003 (2003-12-15). "Cardinal Arinze: The Reverence due to the Holy Eucharist". Adoremus Bulletin. Retrieved 2017-07-16.CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
^ Pope Benedict XVI, Sacramentum Caritatis, Archived January 14, 2015, at the Wayback Machine
^ "EWTN ~ Prayers". www.ewtn.com. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ a b c "We Don't Just Receive | The Divine Mercy Message from the Marians of the Immaculate Conception". www.thedivinemercy.org. 8 June 2007. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ "CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: Pope Pius X". www.newadvent.org. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ Lord, Daniel A., "Thanksgiving After Holy Communion", Catholic Pamphlets
^ Maronite Monks, The Gift of Thanksgiving, Most Holy Trinity Monastery, Petersham, Massachusetts, December 2004
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2007-09-28. Retrieved 2007-08-30.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "Canticle". landru.i-link-2.net. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ "Orationes Post Missam". www.preces-latinae.org. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ "Prayers of the Sacramentary". www.christusrex.org. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2007-09-25. Retrieved 2007-08-29.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ a b "Prayers After Holy Communion (EN) – POMOG.org". pomog.org. Retrieved 2017-07-16.
External links[edit]
Prayers After Holy Communion, Catholic Tradition
Latin prayers of the Roman Missal
Graces from the Holy Eucharist - taken from My Catholic Faith by Bishop Louis LaRavoire Morrow
The Maronites Monks on Thanksgiving after Communion - a comprehensive article which includes answers to difficulties
"Prayers of Thanksgiving After Receiving Holy Communion", Assembly of Canonical Orthodox Bishops of the USA
Prayers After Communion, Church of England
Prayer after Holy Communion, Galway Redemptorists
vteMass of the Roman Rite of the Catholic ChurchForms
Pre-Tridentine Mass
Tridentine Mass
Extraordinary Form
Mass of Paul VI (Ordinary Form)
Zaire Use
Orders
Benedictine Rite
Carmelite Rite
Carthusian Rite
Cistercian Rite
Dominican Rite
Norbertine Rite
Types
Low Mass
Missa Cantata
Solemn Mass
Pontifical High Mass
Papal Mass
sine populo
Votive Mass
Ritual Masses
Blue Mass
Chapter and Conventual Mass
Coronation Mass
Gold Mass
Nuptial Mass
Red Mass
Rose Mass
Requiem Mass
Month's mind
White Mass
Order of MassPre-Mass
Vesting prayers
Asperges me
Vidi aquam in Eastertide
Processional hymn
Liturgy ofthe Word
Sign of the Cross
Psalm 43
Entrance Antiphon
Penitential Act
Confiteor / Kyrie
Gloria
Dominus vobiscum
Collect
Oremus
Responsorial Psalm or Gradual
Epistle
Alleluia
Tract / sequence
Gospel
Homily
Credo
Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed or Apostles' Creed
Universal Prayer
Liturgy ofthe Eucharist
Offertory
Orate fratres / prayer over the gifts
Preface
Sursum corda / Sanctus / Hosanna
Eucharistic Prayer/Canon of the Mass
oblation / epiclesis / Words of Institution / elevation / anamnesis
texts and rubrics
Roman Canon
history
Memorial Acclamation
Lord's Prayer
embolism / doxology
Pax
Sign of peace
Agnus Dei
Dona nobis pacem
Fraction
Holy Communion
Communion antiphon
Ablutions
Postcommunion
Dismissal
Ite, missa est / Benedicamus Domino
Last Gospel
Post-Mass
Leonine Prayers
Recessional hymn
Participants
Acolyte
Altar server
female
Bishop
Boat boy
Cantor
Choir
Crucifer
Deacon
Extraordinary minister of Holy Communion
Laity
Eucharistic Congress
Lector
Porter
Priest
Subdeacon
Usher
Altar
Altar crucifix
Altar rails
Ambo
Antependium
Candles
Altar candle
Altar candlestick
Paschal candle
Sanctuary lamp
Triple candlestick
Chalice veil
Communion bench
Corporal
Credence table
Kneeler
Lavabo
Misericord
Pall
Piscina
Purificator
Rood
Tabernacle
Liturgicalobjects
Altar bell
Ashes
Aspergillum
Censer
Chalice
Ciborium
Collection basket
Communion-plate
Cruet
Evangeliary
Fistula
Flabellum
Funghellino
Holy water
Incense
use
Manuterge
Paten
Processional cross
Pyx
Sacramental bread
wafer
Sacramental wine (or must)
Thurible
Liturgical books
Ceremonial of Bishops
Roman Gradual
Graduale Simplex
Roman Missal
Sacramentary and Lectionary
Tonary
Vestments
Alb
Amice
Chasuble
Dalmatic
Episcopal sandals
Humeral veil
Pallium
Pontifical
Stole
Surplice
Tunicle
Vimpa
Liturgical yearCalendars
Tridentine Calendar
General Roman Calendar of 1954
General Roman Calendar of Pope Pius XII
General Roman Calendar of 1960
General Roman Calendar (current)
Periods
Advent
Christmastide
Ordinary Time
Septuagesima
Lent
Passiontide
Holy Week
Paschal Triduum
Eastertide
Ascensiontide
Eucharisticdiscipline
Abstemius
Concelebration
Church etiquette
Closed communion
Canon 844
Canon 915
Communion and the developmentally disabled
Communion under both kinds
Eucharistic fast
First Communion
Frequent Communion
Genuflection
Headcover
Host desecration
Infant communion
Intinction
Reserved sacrament
Sacramental bread and wine (or must)
Spiritual Communion
Thanksgiving after Communion
Anima Christi
Viaticum
Eucharistictheology
Body and Blood of Christ
Corpus Christi (feast)
Epiousios
Grace ex opere operato
In persona Christi
Historical roots of Catholic Eucharistic theology
Koinonia
Liturgical colours
Mirae caritatis
Mysterium fidei (encyclical)
Origin of the Eucharist
Last Supper
Passion of Jesus and its salvific nature
Priesthood of Melchizedek
Real presence
Transubstantiation
Year of the Eucharist
Regulationsand concepts
Accentus
Ad orientem and versus populum
Calendar of saints
Canon law
Code of Rubrics
Commemoration
Ecclesiastical Latin
General Instruction of the Roman Missal
Holy day of obligation
Intercession of saints
Ordinary and Propers
Pro multis
Sunday
Lord's Day
Vernacular
Related
Agape feast
Anaphora of the Apostolic Tradition
Anglican Use
Ambrosian rite
Catholic theology
Christian liturgy
Catholic
Christian prayer
effects of prayer
Congregation for Divine Worship
Council of Trent
Ecclesia de Eucharistia
Eucharistic adoration and benediction
Dominicae Cenae / Holy Hour
Eucharistic miracle
Fermentum
Fourth Council of the Lateran
Gelineau psalmody
Gregorian chant
History of the Roman Canon
Lex orandi, lex credendi
Latin Mass
Liturgical Movement
Liturgical reforms of Pope Pius XII
Mediator Dei
Missale Romanum (apostolic constitution)
Music
Pope Paul VI
Sacraments of the Catholic Church
Second Vatican Council
Sacrosanctum concilium
Summorum Pontificum
Stercoranism
Tra le sollecitudini
vtePrayers of the Catholic ChurchPrayers of the Mass
Agnus Dei
Confiteor
Creeds
Apostles' Creed
Athanasian Creed
Nicene Creed
Gloria in excelsis Deo
Gloria Patri
Kyrie eleison
Pater noster
Sanctus
Signum crucis
Marian prayers
Alma Redemptoris Mater
Angelus
Ave Maria
Ave maris stella
Ave Regina caelorum
Fátima prayers
Litany
Loreto
Magnificat
Maria mater gratiae
Memorare
Regina caeli
Rosary
Salve Regina
Sub tuum praesidium
Three Hail Marys
Other prayers
Act of Contrition
Adoro te devote
Angele Dei
Anima Christi
Ave verum corpus
Benedictus
Chaplets
Come, Holy Spirit
Jesus Prayer
Mental prayer
Laudes divinae
Litanies
Litany of the Saints
Morning offering
Novena
Nunc dimittis
O salutaris hostia
Penitential Psalms
51: Miserere mei
130: De profundis
Prayer before a crucifix
Prayer of Saint Francis
Prayer to Saint Joseph
Prayer to Saint Michael
Requiem æternam
Spiritual Communion
Tantum ergo
Te Deum
Thanksgiving after Communion
Veni Creator Spiritus
Veni Sancte Spiritus
Visit to the Blessed Sacrament
Way of the Cross
 Catholicism portal
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Thanksgiving_after_Communion&amp;oldid=960217001"
		Categories: Eucharist in the Catholic ChurchEucharistic devotionsCatholic devotionsRoman Catholic prayersCatholic spiritualityHidden categories: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors listWebarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles needing additional references from August 2016All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2016
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		FrançaisBahasa IndonesiaPolskiРусский
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 June 2020, at 19:05 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
