	Lisbon Principles
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		In 1997, a core set of six principles was established by ecological economist Robert Costanza for the sustainability governance of the oceans. These six principles became known as the "Lisbon Principles": together they provide basic guidelines for administering the use of common natural and social resources.[1][2]
Principle 1: Responsibility. Access to environmental resources carries attendant responsibilities to use them in an ecologically sustainable, economically efficient, and socially fair manner. Individual and corporate responsibilities and incentives should be aligned with each other and with broad social and ecological goals.
Principle 2: Scale-matching. Ecological problems are rarely confined to a single scale. Decision-making on environmental resources should (i) be assigned to institutional levels that maximize ecological input, (ii) ensure the flow of ecological information between institutional levels, (iii) take ownership and actors into account, and (iv) internalize costs and benefits. Appropriate scales of governance will be those that have the most relevant information, can respond quickly and efficiently, and are able to integrate across scale boundaries.
Principle 3: Precaution. In the face of uncertainty about potentially irreversible environmental impacts, decisions concerning their use should err on the side of caution. The burden of proof should shift to those whose activities potentially damage the environment.
Principle 4: Adaptive management. Given that some level of uncertainty always exists in environmental resource management, decision-makers should continuously gather and integrate appropriate ecological, social, and economic information with the goal of adaptive improvement.
Principle 5: Full cost allocation. All of the internal and external costs and benefits, including social and ecological, of alternative decisions concerning the use of environmental resources should be identified and allocated. When appropriate, markets should be adjusted to reflect full costs.
Principle 6: Participation. All stakeholders should be engaged in the formulation and implementation of decisions concerning environmental resources. Full stakeholder awareness and participation contributes to credible, accepted rules that identify and assign the corresponding responsibilities appropriately.
See also[edit]
Earth System Governance Project
Environmental science
Environmental economics
Systems ecology
Ecological economics
Sustainability science
Sustainability accounting
List of environmental organisations
List of environmental agreements (international)
List of sustainability topics
Sustainable development
Natural resource economics
Energy economics
Bioeconomics
Natural capital
References[edit]
^ Costanza, R. et al. 2007. Lisbon principles of sustainable governance. In: Encyclopaedia of Earth. Ed. C. J. Cleveland. Environmental Information Coalition, National Council for Science and the Environment, Washington D.C. Published in Encyclopaedia of the Earth August 9, 2007; retrieved February 6, 2009.[1] Archived January 29, 2009, at the Wayback Machine
^ Costanza, R.  et al. 1998. Principles for sustainable governance of the oceans. Science 281: 198-199. (also Nature 387:  253-260 (1997) see above.)
vteSustainability
Outline
History
Index
Principles
Anthropocene
Earth system governance
Ecological modernization
Environmental governance
Environmentalism
Global catastrophic risk
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Earth Overshoot Day
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Steady-state economy
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Poverty
Rebound effect
Renewable
Food
Civic agriculture
Community-supported agriculture
Forest gardening
Foodscaping
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Vegetable box scheme
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Reclaimed
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Landscape
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements and conferences
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (1992)
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Lisbon Principles (1997)
Kyoto Protocol (1997)
Earth Charter (2000)
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals (2015)
Paris Agreement (2015)
UN Ocean Conference (2017)
 Category
 Lists
Science
Studies
Degrees
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lisbon_Principles&amp;oldid=925809961"
		Categories: Water and the environmentInternational sustainable developmentOceansHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Svenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 12 November 2019, at 13:21 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
