	Consent
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Part of the common law seriesTort law
Intentional torts
Assault
Battery
False imprisonment
Intentional infliction of emotional distress
Transferred intent
Property torts
Trespass
land
chattels
Conversion
Detinue
Replevin
Trover
Defenses
Assumption of risk
Comparative negligence
Contributory negligence
Consent
Necessity
Statute of limitations
Self-defense
Defense of others
Defense of property
Shopkeeper's privilege
Negligence
Duty of / standard of care
Proximate cause
Res ipsa loquitur
Calculus of negligence
Rescue doctrine
Duty to rescue
Negligent infliction of emotional distress
Employment-related
Entrustment
Malpractice
legal
medical
Liability torts
Product liability
Quasi-tort
Ultrahazardous activity
Nuisance
Public nuisance
Rylands v Fletcher
Dignitary torts
Defamation
Invasion of privacy
Intrusion on Seclusion
False light
Breach of confidence
Abuse of process
Malicious prosecution
Alienation of affections
Criminal conversation
Seduction
Breach of promise
Economic torts
Fraud
Tortious interference
Conspiracy
Restraint of trade
Liability and remedies
Last clear chance
Eggshell skull
Vicarious liability
Volenti non fit injuria
Ex turpi causa non oritur actio
Neutral reportage
Damages
Injunction
Conflict of tort laws
Joint and several liability
Comparative responsibility
Market share liability
Duty to visitors
Trespassers
Licensees
Invitees
Attractive nuisance
Other common law areas
Contracts
Criminal law
Evidence
Property
Wills, trusts, and estates
 Law portalvteCriminal law
Elements
Actus reus
Mens rea
Causation
Concurrence
Scope of criminal liability
Complicity
Corporate
Vicarious
Severity of offense
Felony
Infraction (also called violation)
Misdemeanor
Inchoate offenses
Attempt
Conspiracy
Incitement
Solicitation
Offence against the person
Assassination
Assault
Battery
Child abuse
Criminal negligence
Defamation
False imprisonment
Harassment
Home invasion
Homicide
Intimidation
Kidnapping
Malicious castration
Manslaughter (corporate)
Mayhem
Murder
corporate
Negligent homicide
Invasion of privacy
Robbery
Torture
Sexual offences
Adultery
Bigamy
Cybersex trafficking
Fornication
Incest
Indecent exposure
Masturbation
Obscenity
Prostitution
Rape
Sex trafficking
Sexual assault
Sexual slavery
Sodomy
Crimes against property
Arson
Blackmail
Bribery
Burglary
Embezzlement
Extortion
False pretenses
Forgery
Fraud
Gambling
Intellectual property violation
Larceny
Payola
Pickpocketing
Possessing stolen property
Robbery
Smuggling
Tax evasion
Theft
Crimes against justice
Compounding
Malfeasance in office
Miscarriage of justice
Misprision
Obstruction
Perjury
Perverting the course of justice
Crimes against the public
Apostasy
Begging
Censorship violation
Dueling
Miscegenation
Illegal consumption (such as prohibition of drugs, alcohol, and smoking)
Suicide
Terrorism
Crimes against animals
Cruelty to animals
Wildlife smuggling
Bestiality
Crimes against the state
Lèse-majesté
Treason
Defences to liability
Automatism
Consent
Defence of property
Diminished responsibility
Duress
Entrapment
Ignorantia juris non excusat
Infancy
Insanity
Justification
Mistake (of law)
Necessity
Provocation
Self-defence
Other common-law areas
Contracts
Evidence
Property
Torts
Wills, trusts and estates
Portals
Law
vte
Consent occurs when one person voluntarily agrees to the proposal or desires of another.[1]   It is a term of common speech, with specific definitions as used in such fields as the law, medicine, research, and sexual relationships. Consent as understood in specific contexts may differ from its everyday meaning. For example, a person with a mental disorder, a low mental age, or under the legal age of sexual consent may willingly engage in a sexual act that still fails to meet the legal threshold for consent as defined by applicable law. 
United Nations agencies and initiatives in sex education programs believe that teaching the topic of consent as part of a comprehensive sexuality education is beneficial.[2] Types of consent include implied consent, express consent, informed consent and unanimous consent.  
Contents
1 Types
2 Internet and digital services
3 Tort
4 Medicine
5 Social science research
6 Planning law
7 Sexual activity
7.1 Affirmative consent
8 See also
9 References
Types[edit]
An express consent is one that is clearly and unmistakably stated, rather than implied. It may be given in writing, by speech (orally), or non-verbally, e.g. by a clear gesture such as a nod. Non-written express consent not evidenced by witnesses or an audio or video recording may be disputed if a party denies that it was given.
Implied consent is consent inferred from a person's actions and the facts and circumstances of a particular situation (or in some cases, by a person's silence or inaction). Some examples include unambiguously soliciting or initiating sexual activity or the implied consent to physical contact by participants in a hockey game or being assaulted in a boxing match.
Informed consent in medicine is consent given by a person who has a clear appreciation and understanding of the facts, implications, and future consequences of an action. The term is also used in other contexts, such as in social scientific research, when participants are asked to affirm that they understand the research procedure and consent to it, or in sex, where informed consent means each person engaging in sexual activity is aware of any positive statuses (for sexually transmitted infections and/or diseases) they might expose themselves to.
Unanimous consent, or general consent, by a group of several parties (e.g., an association) is consent given by all parties.
Substituted consent, or the substituted judgment doctrine, allows a decision maker to attempt to establish the decision an incompetent person would have made if he or she were competent.[3]
Internet and digital services[edit]
The concept of end-user given consent plays an important role in digital regulations such as the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).[4] The GDPR (Article 6) defines a set of different legal bases for lawful processing of personal data. End-users’ consent is only one of these possible bases. However, as a result of the GDPR enforcement (in 2018) and other legal obligations, data controllers (online service providers) have widely developed consent-obtaining mechanisms in recent years[4]. According to the GDPR, end-users' consent should be valid, freely given, specific, informed and active.[4] But the lack of enforceability regarding obtaining lawful consents has been a challenge in the digital world. As an example, a 2020 study, showed that the Big Tech, i.e. Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, and Microsoft (GAFAM), use dark patterns in their consent obtaining mechanisms, which raises doubts regarding the lawfulness of the obtained consent.[4]
Tort[edit]
Main article: Tort
Consent can be either expressed or implied. For example, participation in a contact sport usually implies consent to a degree of contact with other participants, implicitly agreed and often defined by the rules of the sport.[5] Another specific example is where a boxer cannot complain of being punched on the nose by an opponent; implied consent will be valid where the violence is ordinarily and reasonably to be contemplated as incidental to the sport in question.[6] Express consent exists when there is oral or written agreement, particularly in a contract. For example, businesses may require that persons sign a waiver (called a liability waiver) acknowledging and accepting the hazards of an activity. This proves express consent, and prevents the person from filing a tort lawsuit for unauthorised actions.[citation needed]
In English law, the principle of volenti non fit injuria (Latin: "to a willing person, injury is not done") applies not only to participants in sport, but also to spectators and to any others who willingly engage in activities where there is a risk of injury. Consent has also been used as a defense in cases involving accidental deaths during sex, which occur during sexual bondage. Time (May 23, 1988) referred to this latter example, as the "rough-sex defense". It is not effective in English law in cases of serious injury or death.
As a term of jurisprudence prior provision of consent signifies a possible defence (an excuse or justification) against civil or criminal liability. Defendants who use this defense are arguing that they should not be held liable for a tort or a crime, since the actions in question took place with the plaintiff or "victim's" prior consent and permission.[citation needed]
Medicine[edit]
See also: Informed consent
In medical law, consent is important to protect a medical practitioner from liability for harm to a patient arising from a procedure. There are exemptions, such as when the patient is unable to give consent.[3]
Also, a medical practitioner must explain the significant risks of a procedure or medication (those that might change the patient's mind about whether or not to proceed with the treatment) before the patient can give a binding consent. This was explored in Australia in Rogers v Whitaker.[7] If a practitioner does not explain a material risk that subsequently eventuates, then that is considered negligent.[8] These material risks include the loss of chance of a better result if a more experienced surgeon had performed the procedure.[9]
In the UK, a Supreme Court judgment[10] modernized the law on consent and introduced a patient-focused test to UK law: allowing the patient rather than the medical professionals to decide upon the level of risk they wish to take in terms of a particular course of action, given all the information available.  This change reflects the Guidance of the General Medical Council on the requirement to consent patients, and removes the rule of medical paternalism.[11]
Social science research[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (August 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Social scientists are generally required to obtain informed consent from research participants before asking interview questions or conducting an experiment. Federal law governs social science research that involves human subjects, and tasks institutional review boards (IRBs) at universities, federal or state agencies, and tribal organizations to oversee social science research that involves human subjects and to make decisions about whether or not informed consent is necessary for a social scientific study to go forward. Informed consent in this context generally means explaining the study's purpose to research participants and obtaining a signed or verbal affirmation that the study participants understand the procedures to be used and to consent to participate in the study.[12]:51–55
Some types of social scientific research, such as psychological experiments, may use deception as part of the study; in these cases, researchers may not fully describe the procedures to participants, and thus participants are not fully informed. However, researchers are required to debrief participants immediately after the experiment is concluded. Certain populations are considered to be vulnerable, and in addition to informed consent, special protections must be made available to them. These include persons who are incarcerated, pregnant women, persons with disabilities, and persons who have a mental disability. Children are considered unable to provide informed consent.[12]:51–55
Planning law[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (August 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Some countries, such as New Zealand with its Resource Management Act and its Building Act, use the term "consent" for the legal process that provide planning permission for developments like subdivisions, bridges or buildings. Achieving permission results in getting "Resource consent" or "Building consent".
Sexual activity[edit]
See also: Sexual consent, Rape § Consent, and Consent (criminal law)
This section may lend undue weight to certain ideas, incidents, or controversies. Please help to create a more balanced presentation. Discuss and resolve this issue before removing this message. (August 2019)
In Canada "consent means… the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in sexual activity" without abuse or exploitation of "trust, power or authority", coercion or threats.[13] Consent can also be revoked at any moment.[14][better source needed]
Sexual consent plays an important role in defining what sexual assault is, since sexual activity without consent by all parties is considered rape.[15][16][better source needed] In the late 1980s, academic Lois Pineau argued that we must move towards a more communicative model of sexuality so that consent becomes more explicit and clear, objective and layered, with a more comprehensive model than "no means no" or "yes means yes".[17] Many universities have instituted campaigns about consent. Creative campaigns with attention-grabbing slogans and images that market consent can be effective tools to raise awareness of campus sexual assault and related issues.[18]
Since the late 1990s, new models of sexual consent have been proposed. Specifically, the development of "yes means yes" and affirmative models, such as Hall's definition: "the voluntary approval of what is done or proposed by another; permission; agreement in opinion or sentiment."[14] Hickman and Muehlenhard state that consent should be "free verbal or nonverbal communication of a feeling of willingness' to engage in sexual activity."[19] Affirmative consent may still be limited since the underlying, individual circumstances surrounding the consent cannot always be acknowledged in the "yes means yes", or in the "no means no", model.[15]
Some individuals are unable to give consent. Children or minors below a certain age, the age of sexual consent in that jurisdiction, are deemed not able to give valid consent by law to sexual acts. Likewise, persons with Alzheimer's disease or similar disabilities may be unable to give legal consent to sexual relations even with their spouse.[20]
Within literature,[vague] definitions surrounding consent and how it should be communicated have been contradictory, limited or without consensus.[15][16] Roffee argued that legal definition needs to be universal, so as to avoid confusion in legal decisions. He also demonstrated how the moral notion of consent does not always align with the legal concept. For example, some adult siblings or other family members may voluntarily enter into a relationship, however the legal system still deems this as incestual, and therefore a crime.[21] Roffee argues that the use of particular language in the legislation regarding these familial sexual activities manipulates the reader to view it as immoral and criminal, even if all parties are consenting.[22] Similarly, some children under the legal age of consent may knowingly and willingly choose to be in a sexual relationship. However the law does not view this as legitimate. Whilst there is a necessity for an age of consent, it does not allow for varying levels of awareness and maturity. Here it can be seen how a moral and a legal understanding do not always align.[23]
Initiatives in sex education programs are working towards including and foregrounding topics of and discussions of sexual consent, in primary, high school and college Sex Ed curricula.  In the UK, the Personal Social Health and Economic Education Association (PSHEA) is working to produce and introduce Sex Ed lesson plans in British schools that include lessons on "consensual sexual relationships," "the meaning and importance of consent" as well as "rape myths".[24] In U.S., California-Berkeley University has implemented affirmative and continual consent in education and in the school's policies.[25] In Canada, the Ontario government has introduced a revised Sex Ed curriculum to Toronto schools, including new discussions of sex and affirmative consent, healthy relationships and communication.[26]
Affirmative consent[edit]
Affirmative consent (enthusiastic yes) is when both parties agree to sexual conduct, either through clear, verbal communication or nonverbal cues or gestures.[27] It involves communication and the active participation of people involved. This is the approach endorsed by colleges and universities in the U.S.,[28] which describe consent as an "affirmative, unambiguous, and conscious decision by each participant to engage in mutually agreed-upon sexual activity." Notably, past research has found that college students generally held unfavorable attitudes toward institutional affirmative consent requirements (e.g., Antioch’s policy)[29], stating issues related to endorsement and practicality of these mandated policies . According to Yoon-Hendricks, a staff writer for Sex, Etc., "Instead of saying 'no means no,' 'yes means yes' looks at sex as a positive thing." Ongoing consent is sought at all levels of sexual intimacy regardless of the parties' relationship, prior sexual history or current activity ("Grinding on the dance floor is not consent for further sexual activity," a university policy reads).[27] By definition, affirmative consent cannot be given if a person is intoxicated, unconscious or asleep.
There are 3 pillars often included in the description of sexual consent, or "the way we let others know what we're up for, be it a good-night kiss or the moments leading up to sex."
They are: 
Knowing exactly what and how much I'm agreeing to
Expressing my intent to participate
Deciding freely and voluntarily to participate[27]
To obtain affirmative consent, rather than waiting to say or for a partner to say "no", one gives and seeks an explicit "yes". This can come in the form of a smile, a nod or a verbal yes, as long as it's unambiguous, enthusiastic and ongoing. "There's varying language, but the language gets to the core of people having to communicate their affirmation to participate in sexual behavior," said Denice Labertew of the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault.[27] "It requires a fundamental shift in how we think about sexual assault. It's requiring us to say women and men should be mutually agreeing and actively participating in sexual behavior."[27]
See also[edit]
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Consent
Age of consent
Assumption of risk
Consent of the governed
Saverland v Newton
Sex positive
Sociocracy (decision-making by consent)
Victim blaming
Volenti non fit injuria
References[edit]
^ "Home : Oxford English Dictionary". www.oed.com. Retrieved 2016-03-24..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ International technical guidance on sexuality education: An evidence-informed approach (PDF). Paris: UNESCO. 2018. p. 56. ISBN 978-92-3-100259-5.
^ a b Garner, Bryan (2011). Black's Law Dictionary. West Publishing Co. p. 726.
^ a b c d Human, Soheil; Cech, Florian (2021).  Zimmermann, Alfred; Howlett, Robert J.; Jain, Lakhmi C. (eds.). "A Human-Centric Perspective on Digital Consenting: The Case of GAFAM" (PDF). Human Centred Intelligent Systems. Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies. Singapore: Springer. 189: 139–159. doi:10.1007/978-981-15-5784-2_12. ISBN 978-981-15-5784-2.
^ Example of permitted and regulated contact in sport - BBC Sport: Rugby Union: "... you can tackle an opponent in order to get the ball, as long as you stay within the rules."
^ Pallante v Stadiums Pty Ltd (No 1) [1976] VicRp 29, [1976] VR 331 at 339, Supreme Court (Vic, Australia).
^ Rogers v Whitaker [1992] HCA 58, (1992) 175 CLR 479, High Court (Australia).
^ Chester v Afshar [2004] UKHL 41, [2005] 1 AC 134, House of Lords (UK).
^ Chappel v Hart [1998] HCA 55, (1998) 195 CLR 232, High Court (Australia).
^ Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board [2015] UKSC 11, [2015] AC 1430, Supreme Court (UK).
^ "Supreme Court decision changes doctor-patient relationship forever - Balfour+Manson". www.balfour-manson.co.uk.
^ a b Chambliss, Daniel F.; Schutt, Russell K. (2016). Making sense of the social world: methods of investigation (Fifth ed.). Los Angeles: Sage. ISBN 9781483380612. OCLC 890179806.
^ Criminal Code, Canadian (2015). "Canadian Criminal Code". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Retrieved March 13, 2015.
^ a b Hall, David S. (10 August 1998). "Consent for Sexual Behavior in a College Student Population". Electronic Journal of Human Sexuality. 1.
^ a b c Roffee, James A. (2015). "When Yes Actually Means Yes". Roffee James A., 'When Yes Actually Means Yes: Confusing Messages and Criminalising Consent' in Rape Justice: Beyond the Criminal Law eds. Powell A., Henry N., and Flynn A., Palgrave, 2015. pp. 72–91. doi:10.1057/9781137476159_5. ISBN 978-1-349-57052-2.
^ a b Beres. A, Melanie (18 January 2007). "'Spontaneous' Sexual Consent: An Analysis of Sexual Consent Literature". Feminism &amp; Psychology. 17 (93): 93. doi:10.1177/0959353507072914. S2CID 143271570.
^ Pineau, Lois (1989). "Date Rape: A Feminist Analysis". Law and Philosophy. 8 (217): 217–243. doi:10.1007/BF00160012. S2CID 144671456.
^ Thomas KA, Sorenson SB, Joshi M. "Consent is good, joyous, sexy": A banner campaign to market consent to college students. Journal of American College Health. 2016; 64(8):639-650
^ Hickman, S.E. and Muehlenhard, C.L. (1999) '"By the Semi-mystical Appearance of a Condom": How Young Women and Men Communicate Sexual Consent in Heterosexual Situations', The Journal of Sex Research 36: 258–72.
^ Pam Belluck (April 22, 2015). "Iowa Man Found Not Guilty of Sexually Abusing Wife With Alzheimer's". The New York Times. Retrieved April 23, 2015.
^ Roffee, J. A. (2014). "No Consensus on Incest? Criminalisation and Compatibility with the European Convention on Human Rights". Human Rights Law Review. 14 (3): 541–572. doi:10.1093/hrlr/ngu023.
^ Roffee, James A. (2014). "The Synthetic Necessary Truth Behind New Labour's Criminalisation of Incest". Social &amp; Legal Studies. 23: 113–130. doi:10.1177/0964663913502068. S2CID 145292798.
^ Roffee, James A. (2015). "When Yes Actually Means Yes". Roffee, James (2015). When Yes Actually Means Yes in Rape Justice. 72 - 91. doi:10.1057/9781137476159.0009. ISBN 9781137476159.
^ Rawlinson, Kevin (9 March 2015). "Plans for sexual consent lessons in schools 'do not go far enough'". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Retrieved March 13, 2015.
^ Grinberg, E. (29 September 2014). "Enthusiastic yes in sex consent education". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Retrieved March 13, 2015.
^ Rushowy, Kristin (25 February 2015). "In Ontario sex ed, consent the hot issue". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Retrieved March 10, 2015.
^ a b c d e Grinberg, E. (29 September 2014). "Enthusiastic yes in sex consent education". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Retrieved March 10, 2015.
^ "...affirmative consent standards have been adopted at colleges across the nation, including every ivy league university except Harvard. "Affirmative consent: A primer"  Christine Emba Washington Post Oct 12 2015 https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/in-theory/wp/2015/10/12/affirmative-consent-a-primer/
^ Humphreys, Terry; Herold, Ed (2003). "Should Universities and Colleges Mandate Sexual Behavior?". Journal of Psychology and Human Sexuality. 15 (1): 33–51. doi:10.1300/J056v15n01_04. S2CID 141586944.
vteTort lawIntentional torts
Assault
Battery
False imprisonment
Intentional infliction of emotional distress
Concepts
Consent
Necessity
Self defense
Property torts
Trespass
Conversion
Detinue
Replevin
Trover
Dignitary torts
Defamation
Invasion of privacy
Breach of confidence
Abuse of process
Malicious prosecution
Alienation of affections
Economic torts
Fraud
Tortious interference
Conspiracy
Restraint of trade
Nuisance
Public nuisance
Rylands v. Fletcher
Negligence
Duty of care
Standard of care
Proximate cause
Res ipsa loquitur
Calculus of negligence
Rescue doctrine
Duty to rescue
Specific types of negligence
Negligent infliction of emotional distress
In employment
Entrustment
Malpractice
Duty to visitors
Trespassers
Licensees
Invitees
Attractive nuisance
Strict liability
Product liability
Ultrahazardous activity
Defenses
Comparative and contributory negligence
Last clear chance
Eggshell skull
Small penis rule
Vicarious liability
Volenti non fit injuria
Ex turpi causa non oritur actio
Remedies
Damages
Injunction
vteEthicsNormative ethics
Consequentialism
Utilitarianism
Deontology
Kantian ethics
Ethics of care
Existentialist ethics
Particularism
Pragmatic ethics
Role ethics
Virtue ethics
Eudaimonism
Applied ethics
Animal ethics
Bioethics
Business ethics
Discourse ethics
Engineering ethics
Environmental ethics
Legal ethics
Machine ethics
Media ethics
Medical ethics
Nursing ethics
Professional ethics
Sexual ethics
Ethics of artificial intelligence
Ethics of eating meat
Ethics of technology
Ethics of terraforming
Ethics of uncertain sentience
Meta-ethics
Cognitivism
Moral realism
Ethical naturalism
Ethical non-naturalism
Ethical subjectivism
Ideal observer theory
Divine command theory
Error theory
Non-cognitivism
Emotivism
Expressivism
Quasi-realism
Universal prescriptivism
Moral universalism
Value monism – Value pluralism
Moral relativism
Moral nihilism
Moral rationalism
Ethical intuitionism
Moral skepticism
Concepts
Autonomy
Axiology
Conscience
Consent
Equality
Free will
Good and evil
Good
Evil
Happiness
Ideal
Immorality
Justice
Liberty
Morality
Norm
Freedom
Suffering or Pain
Stewardship
Sympathy
Trust
Value
Virtue
Wrong
full index...
Philosophers
Laozi
Socrates
Plato
Aristotle
Diogenes
Valluvar
Cicero
Confucius
Augustine of Hippo
Mencius
Mozi
Xunzi
Thomas Aquinas
Baruch Spinoza
David Hume
Immanuel Kant
Georg W. F. Hegel
Arthur Schopenhauer
Jeremy Bentham
John Stuart Mill
Søren Kierkegaard
Henry Sidgwick
Friedrich Nietzsche
G. E. Moore
Karl Barth
Paul Tillich
Dietrich Bonhoeffer
Philippa Foot
John Rawls
John Dewey
Bernard Williams
J. L. Mackie
G. E. M. Anscombe
William Frankena
Alasdair MacIntyre
R. M. Hare
Peter Singer
Derek Parfit
Thomas Nagel
Robert Merrihew Adams
Charles Taylor
Joxe Azurmendi
Christine Korsgaard
Martha Nussbaum
more...
Related articles
Casuistry
Christian ethics
Descriptive ethics
Ethics in religion
Evolutionary ethics
Feminist ethics
History of ethics
Ideology
Islamic ethics
Jewish ethics
Moral psychology
Philosophy of law
Political philosophy
Population ethics
Social philosophy
 Category
vteWorldviewRelated terms
Basic beliefs/Beliefs
Collective consciousness/Collective unconscious
Conceptual system
Context
Conventions
Cultural movement
Epic poetry/National epics/Pan-national epics
Facts and factoids
Framing
Ideology
Life stance
Lifestyle
Memes/Memeplex
Mental model
Metanarrative
Mindset
Norms
Paradigm
Philosophical theory
Point of view
Presuppositions
Reality tunnel
Received view
Schemata
School of thought
Set
Social reality
Theory of everything
Umwelt
Value system
AspectsBiases
Academic
Attentional
Attitude polarization
Belief
Cognitive (list)
Collective narcissism
Confirmation
Congruence
Cryptomnesia
Cultural
Ethnocentrism
Filter bubble
Homophily
In-group favoritism
Magical thinking
Media
Observer-expectancy
Observational error
Selective exposure
Selective perception
Self-deception
Self-fulfilling prophecy (Clever Hans effect, placebo effect, wishful thinking)
Status quo
Stereotyping
Change andmaintenance
Activism
Argument
Argumentum ad populum
Attitude change
Censorship
Charisma
Circular reporting
Cognitive dissonance
Critical thinking
Crowd manipulation
Cultural dissonance
Deprogramming
Echo chamber
Education (religious, values)
Euphemism
Excommunication
Fearmongering
Historical revisionism
Ideological repression
Indoctrination
Media manipulation
Media regulation
Mind control
Missionaries
Moral entrepreneurship
Persuasion
Polite fiction
Political engineering
Propaganda
Propaganda model
Proselytism
Psychological manipulation
Psychological warfare
Religious conversion (forced)
Religious persecution
Religious uniformity
Revolutions
Rhetoric
Self-censorship
Social change
Social control
Social engineering
Social influence
Social progress
Suppression of dissent
Systemic bias
Woozle effect
Culture
Anthropology (cultural, social)
Calendars
Ceremonies
Coronations
Cross-cultural psychology
Cultural psychology
Doctrine
Employment/Serfdom/Slavery
Families
Funerals/Burial
Games
Holidays
Hygiene (ritual)
Identity (philosophy) (cultural)
Institutions
Liminality
Liturgy
Marriage
Myth and ritual
Oaths
Pilgrimages
Play
Rites of passage (secular)
Rituals
Social class/Social status/Caste
Symbols
Symbolic boundaries
Worship
Groupthink
Abilene paradox
Bandwagon effect
Collectives
Collective behavior (animal)
Collective effervescence
Collective intelligence
Conformity
Consensus theory
Crowd psychology
Cults
Culture-bound syndromes
Deindividuation
Democracy
Emergence
Emotional contagion
Entitativity
False-consensus effect
Folie à deux
Group action
Group dynamics
Group emotion
Group polarization
Groupshift
Herd behavior
Holism
Hysterical contagion
Information cascade
Invisible hand
Lynching
Majoritarianism/Ochlocracy
Mass action
Mass hysteria
Mass psychogenic illness
Milieu control
Mobbing
Moral panic
Organizations
Peer pressure
Pluralistic ignorance
Political correctness
Pseudoconsensus
Scapegoating
Self-organization
Social action
Social behavior
Social emotions
Social exclusion
Social facilitation (animal)
Social group
Social proof
Social psychology
Sociology
Spontaneous order
Status quo
Stigmergy
Swarm behaviour
System justification
Viral phenomena
Knowledge
Axioms (tacit assumptions)
Conceptual framework
Epistemology (outline)
Evidence (anecdotal, scientific)
Explanations
Faith (fideism)
Gnosis
Intuition
Meaning-making
Memory
Metaknowledge
Methodology
Observation
Observational learning
Perception
Reasoning (fallacious, logic)
Revelation
Testimony
Tradition (folklore)
Truth (consensus theory, criteria)
World disclosure
Metaphysics
Ætiology
Afterlife
Anima mundi
Being
Causality
Concepts
Consciousness (mind–body problem)
Cosmogony
Cosmology (religious)
Creation myth
Deities (existence)
Destiny
Eschatology
Everything/Nothing
Evolution
Existence
Fiction/Non-fiction
Free will
Future
History
Ideas
Idios kosmos
Illusions
Incarnation
Information
Intelligence
Magic
Matter
Miracles
Mythology (comparative)
National mythoi
Nature (philosophical)
Ontology
Origin myths (political myths)
Otherworlds (axes mundi)
Problem of evil
Physics (natural philosophy)
Reality
Souls
Spirit
Supernature
Teleology
Theology
Time
Unobservables
Value
Æsthetics
Almsgiving/Charity
Altruism
Autonomy
Beauty
Codes of conduct
Comedy
Common good
Conscience
Consent
Creativity
Disgust
Duty
Economics
Ecstasy (emotional, religious)
Elegance
Emotions (æsthetic)
Entertainment
Eroticism
Ethics
Étiquette
Family values
Food and drink prohibitions (unclean animals)
Golden Rule
Guilt/Culpability
Happiness
Harmony
Honour
Human rights
Judgement
Justice
Laws (jurisprudence, religious)
Liberty (political freedom)
Love
Magnificence
Maxims
Meaning of life
Morality (public)
Obligations
Peace
Piety
Praxeology
Principles
Punishment
Qualities
Repentance
Reverence
Rights
Sexuality (ethics)
Sin
Social stigma
Stewardship
Styles
Sublime, The
Suffering
Sympathy
Taboo
Taste
Theodicy
Trust
Unspoken rules
Virtues and Vices
Works of art
Wrongdoing
ExamplesAttitudes
Optimism
Pessimism
Reclusion
Weltschmerz
Economic andpolitical ideologies
Authoritarianism
Anarchism
Capitalism
Christian democracy
Collectivism
Colonialism
Communalism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conservatism
Constitutionalism
Distributism
Environmentalism
Extremism
Fanaticism
Fascism
Feminism
Fundamentalism
Globalism
Green politics
Imperialism
Individualism
Industrialism
Intellectualism
Islamism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Masculism
Militarism
Monarchism
Nationalism
Pacifism
Progressivism
Radicalism
Reformism
Republicanism
Sentientism
Social democracy
Socialism
Utilitarianism
Veganism
Religions
African traditional religions
Baháʼí
Buddhism
Cao Dai
Cheondoism
Chinese traditional religions
Christianity
Ethnic religions
Hòa Hảo
Hinduism
Islam
Jainism
Judaism
Korean shamanism
Neo-Paganism
Rastafarianism
Secular/Nonreligious/Agnostic/Atheist
Shinto
Sikhism
Spiritism
Taoism
Tenrikyo
Tenriism
Unitarian Universalism
Zoroastrianism
Schools ofphilosophy
Agriculturalism
Aristotelianism
Atomism
Averroism
Cartesianism
Cārvāka
Collectivism
Confucianism/New Confucianism
Critical theory
Cynicism
Cyrenaics
Determinism
Dualism
Eleatics
Empiricism
Eretrian school
Epicureanism
Existentialism
Foundationalism
Hedonism
Hegelianism
Hermeneutics
Historicism/New Historicism
Holism
Humanism/Renaissance humanism
Illuminationism
ʿIlm al-Kalām
Idealism
Individualism
Ionian
Kantianism/Neo-Kantianism
Kokugaku
Legalism
Logicians
Materialism
Mohism
Megarian school
Modernism/Postmodernism
Monism
Natural Law
Naturalism (Chinese)
Naturalism (western)
Nihilism
Peripatetic
Phenomenology
Platonism/Neoplatonism
Pluralism
Positivism
Pragmatism
Presocratic
Pyrrhonism
Pythagoreanism/Neopythagoreanism
Rationalism
Reductionism
Scholasticism/Neo-Scholasticism
Sentientism
Social constructionism
Sophism
Spinozism
Stoicism
Structuralism/Post-structuralism
Thomism
Transcendentalism
Utilitarianism
Yangism
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Consent&amp;oldid=982748572"
		Categories: Tort lawAutonomyConcepts in ethicsMedical ethicsLegal defensesHidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodicalAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2019Articles with unsourced statements from May 2009Articles needing additional references from August 2019All articles needing additional referencesArticles needing POV-check from August 2019All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from August 2019All Wikipedia articles needing clarificationWikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2019
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote
		Languages
		العربيةবাংলাDanskDeutschEspañolEsperanto한국어ಕನ್ನಡ日本語PolskiSimple EnglishSvenskaతెలుగు中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 10 October 2020, at 02:39 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
