	Frequentative
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Grammatical aspect that indicates repeated action over multiple occasions or places
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Frequentative" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (February 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Look up frequentative in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
In grammar, a frequentative form (abbreviated FREQ or FR) of a word is one that indicates repeated action, but is not to be confused with iterative aspect.[1] The frequentative form can be considered a separate but not completely independent word called a frequentative. The frequentative is no longer productive in English, but still is in some language groups, such as Finno-Ugric, Balto-Slavic, Turkic, etc.
Contents
1 English
2 Finnish
3 Greek
4 Hungarian
5 Latin
6 Lithuanian
7 Polish
8 Russian
9 Reduplication
10 See also
11 References
11.1 Sources
English[edit]
English has -le and -er as frequentative suffixes. Some frequentative verbs surviving in English and their parent verbs are listed below.  Additionally, some frequentative verbs are formed by reduplication of a monosyllable (e.g., coo-cooing, cf. Latin murmur).  Frequentative nouns are often formed by combining two different vowel grades of the same word (as in teeter-totter, pitter-patter, chitchat, etc.)
frequentative
original
suffix
blabber
blab
-er
bobble
bob
-le
clamber
climb
-er
clutter
clot
-er
crackle
crack
-le
crumble
crumb
-le
cuddle
couth (ME. cudde, cuþþed, OE. cúð)
-le
curdle
curd
-le
dabble
dab
-le
dribble
drip
-le
dazzle
daze
-le
fizzle
fizz
-le
flitter
flit
-er
flutter
float
-er
fondle
fond
-le
glimmer
gleam
-er
gobble
gob
-le
gruntle
grunt
-le
haggle
hag = hew, hack
-le
jiggle
jig
-le
jostle
joust
-le
muddle
mud
-le
nestle
nest
-le
nuzzle
nose
-le
paddle
pad
-le
patter
pat
-er
prattle
prate
-le
prickle
prick
-le
pucker
pock, poke
-er
putter
put
-er
scuffle
scuff
-le
scuttle
scud
-le
slither
slide
-er
sniffle
sniff
-le
snuffle
snuff
-le
snuggle
snug
-le
sparkle
spark
-le
spatter
spit
-er
speckle
speck
-le
straddle
stride
-le
suckle
suck
-le
swaddle
swathe
-le
swagger
swag
-er
swindle
swindan (OE. cognate, 'to waste away')
-le
tickle
tick
-le
topple
top
-le
tousle
tease (apart)
-le
trample
tramp
-le
toggle
tug
-le
tumble
tumben (Middle English)
-le
twinkle
twink
-le
waddle
wade
-le
waggle
wag
-le
wrangle
wring
-le
wrestle
wrest
-le
The present tense in English usually has a frequentative meaning.  For example, "I walk to work." means "I walk to work most days.", and would be true even if the speaker was not on their way to work there at the time.
Finnish[edit]
In Finnish, a frequentative verb signifies a single action repeated, "around the place" both spatially and temporally. The complete translation would be "go — around aimlessly". There is a large array of different frequentatives, indicated by lexical agglutinative markers. In general, one frequentative is -:i-, and another -ele-, but it is almost always combined with something else. Some forms:
sataa — sadella — satelee "to rain — to rain occasionally — it rains occasionally"
ampua — ammuskella — ammuskelen "to shoot — go shooting around — I go shooting around"
juosta — juoksennella — juoksentelen  "to run — to run around (to and fro) — I run around"
kirjoittaa — kirjoitella — kirjoittelen "to write — to write (something short) occasionally — I write "around""
järjestää — järjestellä — järjestelen "to put in order — to arrange continuously, to play around — I play around (with them) in order to put them in order"
heittää — heittelehtiä — heittelehdit "to throw — to swerve — you swerve"
loikata — loikkia — loikin "to jump once — to jump (again and again) — I jump (again and again)"
istua — istuksia — istuksit "to sit — to sit (randomly somewhere), loiter — you loiter there by sitting"
There are several frequentative morphemes, underlined above; these are affected by consonant gradation as indicated. Their meanings are slightly different; see the list, arranged infinitive~personal:
-ella~-ele-: bare frequentative.
-skella~-skele-: frequentative unergative verb, where the action is wanton (arbitrary)
-stella~-stele-: frequentative causative, where the subject causes something indicated in the root, as "order" vs. "to continuously try to put something in order".
-nnella~-ntele-: a frequentative, where an actor is required. The marker -nt- indicates a continuing effort, therefore -ntele- indicates a series of such efforts.
-elehtia~-elehdi-: movement that is random and compulsive, as in under pain, e.g. vääntelehtiä "writhe in pain", or heittelehtiä "to swerve"
-:ia-~-i-: a continuing action definitely at a point in time, where the action or effort is repeated.
-ksia~-ksi-: same as -i-, but wanton, cf. -skella
Frequentatives may be combined with momentanes, that is, to indicate the repetition of a short, sudden action. The momentane -ahta- can be prefixed with the frequentative -ele- to produce the morpheme -ahtele-, as in täristä "to shake (continuously)" → tärähtää "to shake suddenly once" → tärähdellä "to shake, such that a single, sudden shaking is repeated". For example, the contrast between these is that ground shakes (maa tärisee) continuously when a large truck goes by, the ground shakes once (maa tärähtää) when a cannon fires, and the ground shakes suddenly but repeatedly (maa tärähtelee) when a battery of cannons is firing.
Since the frequentative is a lexical, not a grammatical contrast, considerable semantic drift may have occurred.
For a list of different real and hypothetical forms, see:[2]
Loanwords are put into the frequentative form, if the action is such. If the action can be nothing else but frequentative, the "basic form" doesn't even exist, such as with "to go shopping".
surffata — surffailla "to surf — to surf (around in the net)"
*shopata — shoppailla "*to shop once — to go shopping"
Adjectives can similarly receive frequentative markers: iso — isotella "big — to talk big", or feikkailla &lt; English fake "to be fake, blatantly and consistently".
Greek[edit]
In Homer and Herodotus, there is a past frequentative, usually called "past iterative", formed like the imperfect, but with an additional -sk- suffix before the endings.[3]
ékhe-sk-on "I used to have" (imperfect ékh-on)
The same suffix is used in inchoative verbs in both Ancient Greek and Latin.
Hungarian[edit]
In Hungarian it is quite common and everyday to use frequentative.
Frequentative verbs are formed with the suffix –gat (–get after a front vowel; see vowel harmony).  Also there is a so-called Template rule, which forces another vowel in between the base verb and the affix resulting in a word containing at least three syllables. Verbal prefixes (coverbs) do not count as a syllable.
Some verbs' frequentative forms have acquired an independent non-frequentative meaning. In these cases the three syllables rule is not applied as the form is not considered a frequentative. These words can be affixed with –gat again to create a frequentative meaning.
In rare cases non-verbs can be affixed by –gat to give them similar modification in meaning as to verbs. In most cases these non-verbs are obviously related to some actions, like a typical outcome or object. The resulting word basically has the same meaning as if the related verb were affixed with –gat.
The change in meaning of a frequentative compared to the base can be different depending on the base: The –gat affix can modify the occurrences or the intensity or both of an action. Occasionally it produces a specific meaning which is related but distinct from the original form's.
Examples:
frequentative
root
translation of root
translation of –gat form
explanation
fizetget
fizet
to pay
paying for a longer period with probably less intensity
the vowel harmony forced -GAT to take form of -get
kéreget
kér
to ask
begging for a living
because the resulting word must be at least three syllables long a new vowel is added to the word: kér-e-get
kiütöget
(ki)üt
hit (out)
hit out sg. multiple times
the prefixed coverb "ki" (out) doesn't count as a syllable so an extra vowel is added: (ki)üt-ö-get
hallgatgat
hallgat
to listen
to listen multiple times but with possibly less intensity
the original verb "hallgat" (to listen) is a syntactically imperfect frequentative form of "hall" (to hear)
rángat
ránt
to hitch
to tousle
this one is kind of an exception for the three syllable rule, however "rántogat" (ránt-o-gat) is uncommon but valid, and has a slightly bigger emphasis on the separate nature of each pull rather than a continuous shaking as in "rángat"
jajgat
jaj
ouch (a shout)
to shout "jaj" multiple times, probably because of pain
the original word is not a verb, so the three syllable rule is not applied
béget
bee
baa (onomatopoeia for a sheep)
to shout baa multiple times
same as above
mosogat
mos
to wash
to do the dishes
the frequentative form (mos-o-gat) has an own non-frequentative meaning
mosogatgat
mosogat
to do the dishes
to do the dishes slowly and effortlessly
as the frequentative "mosogat" has a non-frequentative meaning, it can be affixed by -GAT to make it frequentative
dolgozgat
dolgozik
to work
to work with less effort and intensity, as in: "Ők fizetgetnek, én dolgozgatok" (They pretend to pay me, I pretend to work.)
the "-ik" at the end of "dolgozik" is an irregular ending which is only effective in third person singular, so -GAT sticks to "dolgoz" which is the root of the word
Latin[edit]
In Latin, frequentative verbs show repeated or intense action. They are formed from the supine stem with -tāre/-sāre, -itāre, -titāre/-sitāre added.
ventitāre, ‘come frequently or repeatedly’ (&lt; venio, ‘come’; see Catullus 8, l. 4)
cantāre, ‘(continue to) sing’ (&lt; canere, ‘sing a song’)
cursāre, ‘run around’ (&lt; currere, ‘run’)
dictāre, ‘dictate’ (&lt; dīcere, ‘speak, say’)
āctitāre, ‘zealously agitate’ and agitāre, ‘put into motion’ (&lt; agere, ‘do, drive’)
pulsāre, ‘push/beat around’ (&lt; pellere, ‘push (once), beat’)
iactāre, ‘shake, disturb’ (&lt; iacere, ‘throw, cast’)
The deponent verb minārī (‘threaten’) has frequentatives of both deponent and active form: minitārī and minitāre.
Lithuanian[edit]
Lithuanian has a past frequentative (or iterative), which serves to express a single action repeated in the past. Starting from the infinitive without –ti, it is formed by adding the invariant morpheme –dav– followed by the regular past tense suffix of the first conjugation. For instance, dirb·ti ("to work", a first-conjugation verb), whose plain past tense is dirb·au ("I worked" or "I have worked"), has a past iterative of dirb·dav·au ("I used to work"). The six intersections of person and number map onto five distinct frequentative endings; there is no morphological distinction of number in the third person, nor of conjugation class in general. 
dirbti ("to work")
norėti ("to want")
skaityti ("to read")
1–sg.
dirb·dav·au
norė·dav·au
skaity·dav·au
2–sg.
dirb·dav·ai
norė·dav·ai
skaity·dav·ai
3–sg.
dirb·dav·o
norė·dav·o
skaity·dav·o
1–pl.
dirb·dav·ome
norė·dav·ome
skaity·dav·ome
2–pl.
dirb·dav·ote
norė·dav·ote
skaity·dav·ote
3–pl.
dirb·dav·o
norė·dav·o
skaity·dav·o
The closest relative of Lithuanian, Latvian, as well as the Samogitian dialect of the language, has no separate past tense to mark iterative aspect; in its place, however, both may express it by means of periphrasis. An auxiliary verb – mēgt in Latvian and liuobėti in Samogitian – will then occupy the syntactic centre of the verb phrase (subject to conjugation), relegating the main verb to trail it as an (invariant) infinitive complement.
Consider the following three translations of the English sentence "We used to read a lot."
Lithuanian: Mes daug skaitydavome.
Samogitian: Mes liuobiam daug skaitītė.
Latvian: Mēs mēdzām daudz lasīt.
Polish[edit]
In the Polish language, certain imperfective verbs ending in -ać denote repeated or habitual action.
jeść (to eat) → jadać (to eat habitually)
iść (to walk) → chadzać.
widzieć (to see) → widywać
pisać (to write) → pisywać
czytać (to read) → czytywać
The interfix -yw- used to form many frequentative verbs has a different function for prefixed perfective verbs: it serves to create their imperfective equivalents. For instance, rozczytywać (to try to read something barely legible) is simply an imperfective equivalent of rozczytać (to succeed at reading something barely legible).
Russian[edit]
In the Russian language, the frequentative form of verbs to denote a repeated or customary action is produced by inserting the suffix -ив/-ыв, often accompanied with a change in the root of the word (vowel alternation, change of the last root consonant).
видеть (to see) → видывать (to see repeatedly)
сидеть (to sit)  → сиживать
ходить (to walk) → 'хаживать
носить (to wear) → нашивать
гладить (to stroke) → поглаживать
писать (to write) → пописывать
An interesting example is with the word брать (to take); an archaic usage recorded among hunters, normally used in the past tense, in hunter's boasting: бирал, бирывал
meaning "used to take (quite a few) trophies".
Reduplication[edit]
The simplest way to produce a frequentative is reduplication, either of the entire word or of one of its phonemes. This is common in Austronesian languages, although reduplication also serves to pluralize and intensify nouns and adjectives. Examples in Niuean are available here.
See also[edit]
Continuous and progressive aspects
Inchoative verb
References[edit]
^ Bhat, D.N.S. (1999). The prominence of tense, aspect and mood. John Benjamins. pp. 53–56. ISBN 9781556199356. OCLC 909078918..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "ctl104mh.shtml". Ling.helsinki.fi. Retrieved 2019-09-12.
^ Greek Grammar, par. 495: iterative imperfects and aorists.
Sources[edit]
Gildersleeve, B. L. (1895). Gildersleeve's Latin Grammar. Bolchazy-Carducci. ISBN 0-86516-477-0.
vteGrammatical and lexical aspectsComplete vs. incomplete
Perfective
Aorist
Momentane
Semelfactive#
Imperfective
Continuous and progressive
Delimitative
Imperfect
Iterative/distributive/frequentative#
Generic vs. episodic
Gnomic
Habitual
Beginning vs. ending
Inchoative aspect/verb#
Cessative
Relative time
Perfect (Retrospective)
Prospective
#Lexical aspects. Grammatical aspects unmarked.
vteLexical categories and their featuresNoun
Abstract/Concrete
Adjectival
Agent
Animacy
Bare
Collective
Countable
Initial-stress-derived
Mass
Noun adjunct
Proper
Relational
Strong / Weak
Verbal / Deverbal
VerbForms
Attributive
Converb
Finite / Nonfinite
Gerund
Gerundive
Infinitive
Participle
Supine
Verbal noun
Types
Ambitransitive
Andative/Venitive
Anticausative
Autocausative
Auxiliary
Captative
Catenative
Compound
Copular
Defective
Denominal
Deponent
Ditransitive
Dynamic
ECM
Frequentative
Impersonal
Inchoative
Intransitive
Labile
Lexical
Light
Modal
Negative
Performative
Phrasal
Predicative
Preterite-present
Pure
Reflexive
Regularity
Separable
Stative
Stretched
Strong
Transitive
Unaccusative
Unergative
Weak
Adjective
Anti-intersective
Collateral
Common
Demonstrative
Intersective
Nominalized
Non-intersective
Possessive
Postpositive
Proper
Pure intersective
Relative subsective
Subsective
Adverb
Genitive
Conjunctive
Flat
Interrogative
Locative
Prepositional
Pronominal
Relative
Pronoun
Bound variable
Demonstrative
Disjunctive
Distributive
Donkey
Dummy
Formal/Informal
Gender-neutral / Gender-specific
Inclusive/Exclusive
Indefinite
Intensive
Interrogative
Personal
Possessive
Reciprocal
Reflexive
Relative
Resumptive
Strong/Weak
Subject / Object / Prepositional
Adposition
Casally modulated
Inflected
Stranded
Determiner
Article
Demonstrative
Interrogative
Possessive
Quantifier
Particle
Discourse
Interrogative
Modal
Noun
Possessive
Other
Classifier (Measure word)
Complementizer
Conjunction
Copula
Coverb
Expletive
Interjection (Onomatopoeia) (Ideophone)
Preverb
Procedure word
Pro-form (Pro-verb / Pro-sentence)
Prop-word
Yes and no
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Frequentative&amp;oldid=979983183"
		Categories: Grammatical aspectsVerb typesLithuanian grammarFinnish grammarTurkish grammarHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from February 2014All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		AragonésCatalàDeutschEsperantoFrançaisNederlandsРусский
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 23 September 2020, at 22:34 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
