	Verdugo Mountains
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Verdugo MountainsVerdugosVerdugo Mountains, south viewHighest pointPeakVerdugo PeakElevation3,126 ft (953 m)Geography.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}location of Verdugo Mountains in California[1]
            CountryUnited StatesStateCaliforniaDistrictLos Angeles CountyRange coordinates34°13′N 118°17′W﻿ / ﻿34.217°N 118.283°W﻿ / 34.217; -118.283Coordinates: 34°13′N 118°17′W﻿ / ﻿34.217°N 118.283°W﻿ / 34.217; -118.283Parent rangeTransverse RangesTopo mapUSGS Burbank
The Verdugo Mountains are a small, rugged mountain range of the Transverse Ranges system, located just south of the western San Gabriel Mountains in Los Angeles County, Southern California. The range is sometimes known as the Verdugo Hills or simply the Verdugos.
Surrounded entirely by urban development, the Verdugo Mountains represent an isolated wildlife island and are in large part under public ownership in the form of undeveloped parkland.  The mountains are used primarily for recreation in the form of hiking and mountain biking, and as the site of communications installations on the highest peaks.
The mountains arise directly from the eastern floor of the San Fernando Valley, exaggerating their height from some vantages.  Beginning with foothills, they rapidly rise to rugged sections, with the highest peaks topping 3,000',  nearly as high as the nearby Santa Susana Mountains.
Contents
1 Geography
2 Geology
3 Flora, fauna and climate
4 History
4.1 Glendale &amp; Mount Verdugo Railway
5 Wildfire
6 Protected areas
7 Access and recreational use
8 See also
9 References
10 Further reading
11 Maps
12 External links
Geography[edit]
The northwest-trending range is approximately 8 miles (13 km) long by 3.25 miles (5.23 km) wide, and roughly parallels the southern front of the San Gabriel Mountains at a distance of 1 mile (1.6 km) to 2 miles (3.2 km), with the Crescenta Valley lying between the two.  The southern front of the range forms part of the northeastern boundary of the San Fernando Valley; at their southeastern end the Verdugo Mountains are separated from the San Rafael Hills by the Verdugo Wash.
The highest summit is the informally named Verdugo Peak (3,126 feet), located near the center of the range and rising to approximately 2,200 feet (670 m) above its southern base. Other peaks include Tongva Peak (2,656 feet), recently named in honor of the Tongva (Gabrielino) people, the original inhabitants of much of the Los Angeles Basin, Santa Monica Mountains, and San Gabriel Valley areas. Other informally named peaks are Mount La Tuna on the north end and Mount Thom on the south end of the range.  With the exception of Mount La Tuna, all these summits, as well as several others, are occupied by communications towers.
The Verdugo Mountains lie within the corporate boundaries of the cities of Glendale, Burbank, and Los Angeles. The neighborhood of La Crescenta, most of which lies within Glendale, is adjacent to the range's northern end, as are the Los Angeles neighborhoods of Tujunga, Sunland, Shadow Hills, and Sun Valley (the last of which includes La Tuna Canyon).
Geology[edit]
The Verdugo Mountains consist of an east-west-trending antiformal fault block, bounded on the south by the Verdugo Fault, a north-dipping reverse fault, and on the north by the Sierra Madre thrust fault near the front of the San Gabriel Mountains,[2]  thus including the sediment-covered Crescenta Valley within the Verdugo Mountains Block.  The Verdugo Fault lies slightly south of the topographic range front and is completely covered by sediments.[2]
The rocks within the Verdugo Mountains block are almost entirely igneous and metamorphic similar to the crystalline basement rocks exposed to the north in that portion of the San Gabriel Mountains south of the San Gabriel Fault.  These consist of gneiss, and gneissic diorite and quartz diorite, intruded by irregular bodies of equigranular granitic rocks, predominantly quartz diorite and granodiorite, with accompanying pegmatite and aplite.[3] Exposed rocks in the Shadow Hills neighborhood at the extreme northwestern end of the Verdugos are typically marine sedimentary rocks of Miocene age, predominantly sandstone and shale.
The Verdugo Mountains are part of the western Transverse Ranges, which have risen in the last 7 million years[citation needed] as the result of contractional deformation resulting from transpressional motion and rotation of crustal blocks in the "Big Bend" region of the San Andreas Fault.[4][5]  The amount of crustal shortening since the beginning of the Pliocene has been estimated to be on the order of 7 kilometers (4.3 mi). The Verdugo fault and Sierra Madre thrust are part of a complex system of faults that accommodate some of this shortening and generally become younger to the south, with the Verdugo Fault possibly being the youngest member of this system and forming the current boundary between this portion of the western Transverse Ranges and the Los Angeles basin.[6] Uplift along the Verdugo fault may total approximately 2.5 km (1.6 mi), at a minimum rate of 1.1 km (0.68 mi) per million years since 2.3 million years ago,[7] moving the crystalline rocks of the Verdugo Mountains up and over younger Tertiary and Quaternary sediments to the south. The Verdugo Mountains are, therefore, young and rapidly rising, reflected in their steep topography and rapid rates of erosion.
Flora, fauna and climate[edit]
See also: California chaparral and woodlands
The Verdugo Mountains lie almost entirely within the chaparral plant community, as defined by Munz[8] and later authors, including Sawyer et al.[9]   This dense, shrub-dominated community of the California chaparral and woodlands is more highly developed on the north-facing slopes than on the drier, hotter south-facing slopes.  Among the shrub species that characterize this community, prominent in the Verdugos are laurel sumac (Malosma laurina), toyon (Heteromeles arbutifolia), poison oak (Toxicodendron diversilobum), chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum) and two species of California-lilac (Ceanothus crassifolius and Ceanothus oliganthus).  Native trees are restricted to protected canyons, especially on the shadier north slope of the range, where soil moisture levels are higher.  Coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia), California bay laurel (Umbellularia californica), California sycamore (Platanus racemosa), California walnut (Juglans californica), and several species of willow (Salix spp.) are the most common native trees.  Non-native trees, particularly pines (Pinus spp.), cypress (Cupressus spp.), locust (Robinia pseudoacacia), and Australian eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.) have been planted locally along the fire roads and, most notably, in the Fire Warden's Grove, established in the wake of a wildfire in 1927.
Except for a tenuous link to the large wild area in the San Gabriel Mountains through Big Tujunga Wash at their northwestern end, the Verdugo Mountains are an urban wildlife island completely surrounded by development.  Among the large mammals, coyote (Canis latrans) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) are the most common; mountain lions (Puma concolor) and black bears (Ursus americanus) have occasionally been reported.[10][11] The many rodent species support a population of western rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis).  Of the numerous bird species present, the most characteristic of the chaparral here, and throughout California, is the small, seldom seen but often heard wrentit (Chamaea fasciata).[12] With its call of three or four chirps followed by an accelerating trill, often likened to the sound of a dropped ping-pong ball, the wrentit provides the most characteristic sound of the chaparral.
The Verdugo Mountains have warm, dry summers and cool wet winters. Snow infrequently falls along the crest during the coldest winter storms, but melts rapidly. Annual average precipitation increases with elevation (due to the orographic lift effect), from 17-21 inches at the base to about 24–28 inches at the crest. Annual rainfall totals are highly variable from year to year, with the higher totals usually in El Nino years. Most of the rain falls between November and March during periodic frontal passages.
History[edit]
The mountains were part of the indigenous Tongva people's homelands for over 7,000 years, with villages at some springs in the canyons.[13]
The Verdugo Mountains were named for Jose Maria Verdugo, holder of the Rancho San Rafael land grant, which covered the mountains during California's Spanish and Mexican periods. On October 20, 1784 Pedro Fages, the military governor of Alta California, granted Jose Maria Verdugo permission to use the rancho, known officially by the name San Rafael but informally called "La Zanja" by Verdugo.[14] The rancho's boundaries were primarily defined by the Verdugo Mountains, the Arroyo Seco and the Los Angeles River, with the boundary following north along the east bank of the river and wrapping westerly around Griffith Park to a point near the Travel Town Museum in the park.[14]
Glendale &amp; Mount Verdugo Railway[edit]
One of the earliest attempts to access and develop the interior of the Verdugo Mountains was the 1912 proposal by Colonel Lewis Ginger to build a cable incline railroad to the summit of Mount Verdugo, now known as Mount Thom.  The proposed Glendale &amp; Verdugo Mountain Railway was to run in a straight line from the Pacific Electric's Casa Verdugo station at the top of Brand Boulevard to the summit of Mount Verdugo, employing cars with stepped seating similar to those of Angels Flight on Bunker Hill in Los Angeles.[15] Initially, Colonel Ginger had proposed that his cable railway would lift a Pacific Electric car directly to the summit, but Henry E. Huntington did not approve of this scheme.  The railway was to have four or five stations along the incline and a large visitor's center at the summit.  Several months after the initial proposal, the route was altered to run up the west side of Verdugo Canyon from a hoped-for extension of the Pacific Electric up Verdugo Canyon to Montrose.  Interest in the cable railway continued for about a year, but the project was abandoned before a company could be formed, largely as the result of the Pacific Electric's decision not to build the Montrose extension.
Wildfire[edit]
Fire is a natural component of the chaparral ecosystem, and the plants that comprise it are largely adapted to survive fire or to reproduce after it.[16]  More specifically, the members of this plant community are adapted to a particular fire regime, which is characterized by intensity and seasonality, but most importantly, by the frequency of fires.[17]  In the southern California chaparral, natural frequencies of 30 to 40 years are typical, with some areas going as long as 100 years without fires and others burning more frequently.[18]   It has been estimated the chaparral plant community can persist over the long term only with a fire frequency at a given site of no shorter than several decades, or perhaps longer, although there is variability in the tolerance of different species.  Repeated shorter intervals between fires promote so-called "type conversion," in which the shrubby species are replaced by grasses, particularly non-native grasses, and other weedy species.
The Verdugo Mountains have been subject to repeated wildfires in historical times. Major occurrences in the twentieth century include the December, 1927 Burbank Canyon Fire, which started in Haines Canyon in the San Gabriel Mountains and burned south into the range, consuming approximately 100 homes in Burbank's Sunset Canyon.[19]
The La Tuna Canyon Fire of November, 1955 burned over almost the entire western portion of the range, ultimately destroying approximately 4,500 acres (1,800 ha).[20]
The Whiting Woods Fire of March, 1964, started by a power line downed by high winds, burned from the northern edge of the range southward over to crest to consume homes in Glendale.
A fire in November, 1980, also called the La Tuna Canyon Fire, burned 10,000 acres (4,000 ha) in the northern and western portions of the range.[21]
Since 2000, three major fires have occurred in the Verdugo Mountains. In September, 2002, the Mountain Fire burned over two days approximately 750 acres (300 ha) above Glendale, largely on the southern side of the range.[22]
The Harvard Fire started on September 29, 2005, and consumed 1,024 acres (414 ha) both north and south sides of the range north of Burbank during a six-day period.[23]
In September, 2017, the La Tuna fire started north of the Verdugos, jumping Interstate 210 forcing the closure of it, burning both the north and south face of the ranges. The fire ultimately destroyed four homes and 7,003 acres (2,834 ha) of land.[24]
Beginning in 1921, the Los Angeles County Fire Department began a county-wide program of building fire breaks (or more properly, fuel breaks) to slow the spread of fire, and by 1923 the initial breaks had been constructed in the Verdugos. In 1934, the City of Glendale built a 60-foot lookout tower on Verdugo Peak, which was staffed with an observer until it closed in the mid-1950s. In order to conduct the work necessary to build fire breaks and roads, temporary construction camps were located throughout the fire-prone areas of the county.  In the Verdugo Mountains, Construction Camp #2 was located in the lower reaches of Deer Canyon, at the end of present-day Beaudry Blvd, for a period during the late 1930s and early 1940s.[21]  It is difficult to determine from published sources the dates of construction for the fire roads so important to present-day recreational use of the mountains.  The report of the 1955 La Tuna Canyon fire,[20] however, indicates that at least some of these roads were in place by that date.
Protected areas[edit]
Verdugo Mountains State Park, California Department of Parks and Recreation
Verdugo Mountains Open Space Preserve, jointly operated by the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy and the City of Glendale
Brand Park, Glendale
Stough Canyon Nature Center, Burbank
Wildwood Canyon Park, Burbank
La Tuna Canyon Park, Los Angeles
Tujunga Ponds, Los Angeles
The Verdugo Mountains are being considered as part of the proposed Rim of the Valley Corridor National Park.[25][26]
Access and recreational use[edit]
Other than the Foothill Freeway (I-210) and the nearly parallel La Tuna Canyon Road, both of which traverse only the northwestern tip of the range, the Verdugo Mountains are crossed by no paved roads.  By contrast, the range contains more than 25 miles (40 km) of graded and well maintained fire roads that are used extensively by hikers and mountain bike riders. Several abandoned and overgrown fire roads and ridge-top fire breaks are used recreationally as well.  Trails, in the sense of engineered and maintained footpaths, are few, the most notable being the 2.2 mile (3.5 km)-long La Tuna Canyon Trail, which was constructed in 1989 by the Los Angeles Conservation Corps with funds provided by the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy.[27]
See also[edit]
La Tuna Fire
References[edit]
^ "Verdugo Mountains". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. Retrieved 2009-05-04..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b Arkle, Jeanette, C, and Armstrong, Phillip A. (2007). "Quaternary exhumation of the Verdugo Mountains, Los Angeles Basin, constrained by low-temperature thermochronometry." Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs, vol. 39, no. 6, p. 83.
^ Weber, F. Harold, Jr., and others (1980). Earthquake Hazards Associated with the Verdugo-Eagle Rock and Benedict Canyon Fault Zones, Los Angeles County California.  Calif. Div. Mines and Geology Open File Report 80-10
^ Luyendyk, B. P. (1991). "A model for Neogene crustal rotations, transtension, and transpression in southern California". Geological Society of America Bulletin, vol. 103, pp. 1528–1536.
^ Schneider; C. L., Hummon, C.; Yeats, R. S.; and Huftile, G.J. (1996). "Structural evolution of the northern Los Angeles basin, California, based on growth strata." Tectonics, vol. 15, pp. 341–355.
^ Arkle, Jeanette C.; and Armstrong, Phillip A. (2009). "Exhumation of the Verdugo Mountains, Southern California; constraints from low-temperature thermochronology and geomorphic analysis." Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs, vol. 41, no. 67 p. 300.
^ Meigs, Andrew; Yule, Doug; Blythe, Ann; and Burbank, Doug (2003). "Implications of disturbed crustal deformation for exhumation in a portion of a transpressional plate boundary, Western Transverse Ranges, Southern California."  Quaternary International, vol. 101–102, pp. 169–177.
^ Munz,Phillip A., in collaboration with David D. Keck (1968). A California Flora and Supplement. Berkeley: University of California Press.
^ Sawyer, J., and Keeler-Wolf, T. (1995). A Manual of California Vegetation. Sacramento: California Native Plant Society.
^ Groves, Martha (May 29, 2015). "Meet the Verdugo Mountains' very own mountain lion: P-41". Los Angeles Times.
^ Tchekmedyian, Alene (July 8, 2016). "Bear spotted at Burbank golf course". Burbank Leader.
^ Quinn, Ronald D., and Keeley, Sterling C. (2006) Introduction to California Chaparral. Berkeley: University of California Press.
^ Gumprecht, Blake. The Los Angeles River: Its Life, Death, and Possible Rebirth, Johns Hopkins University Press, 1999, ISBN 0-8018-6642-1, page 31
^ a b Kielbasa, John R. (1998). Historic Adobes of Los Angeles County. Pittsburg: Dorrance Publishing Co. ISBN 0-8059-4172-X..
^ Duke, Donald (1998). Incline Railways of Los Angeles and Southern California. San Marino CA: Golden West Books.
^ Barbour, Michael, Keeler-Wolf, Todd, and Schoenherr, Allan A. (2007). Terrestrial Vegetation of California, 3rd ed. Berkeley: University of California Press.
^ Quinn, Ronald D., and Keeley, Sterling G. (2006). Introduction to California Chaparral. Berkeley: University of California Press.
^ Carle, David (2008). Introduction to Fire in California. Berkeley: University of California Press.
^ 
"The 1927 Burbank Canyon Fire". Burbank Fire Department website (former posting). Retrieved 12 February 2011.
^ a b 
"The 1955 La Tuna Canyon Fire". Los Angeles Fire Department Historical Archive. Retrieved 12 February 2011.
^ a b Boucher, David, 1991. Ride the Devil Wind: a History of the Los Angeles County Forester &amp; Fire Warden Department and Fire Protection Districts.  Bellflower, CA: Fire Publications, Inc.
^ 
"Mountain Fire Damage Assessment and Rehabilitation" (PDF). Glendale Fire and Rescue News. October 2002. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 July 2011. Retrieved 12 February 2011.
^ 
"Southern California Wildfires 2005". Wildfire.com: the Home of the Wildland Firefighter. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011. Retrieved 12 February 2011.
^ Alpert Reyes, Emily; Curwen, Thomas; Tchekmedyian Reyes, Alene (September 3, 2017). "210 Freeway reopened, all evacuation orders lifted as firefighters gain upper hand on Verdugo Mountains fire". KTLA. Retrieved September 3, 2017.
^ "Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study". National Park Service. Retrieved 2014-12-30.
^ Kamal, Sameea (March 4, 2015). "Three lawmakers urge Park Service action on Rim of the Valley study". Los Angeles Times.
^ McKinney, John (1994). Walking Los Angeles New York: HarperCollinsWest.
Further reading[edit]
Tectonics of the San Gabriel Basin and surroundings, southern California. Robert S. Yeats. Corvallis, Oregon: Oregon State University, Department of Geosciences, 2004.
Los Angeles River: Its Life, Death, and Possible Rebirth. Blake Gumprecht. Baltimore &amp; London: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1999. ISBN 0-8018-6642-1.
Afoot &amp; Afield in Los Angeles County, 2nd edition, Area B-5. Jerry Schad. Berkeley, California: Wilderness Press, 2000. ISBN 0-89997-267-5.
Tectonics of the San Gabriel Basin and surroundings, southern California. Robert S. Yeats. Corvallis, Oregon: Oregon State University, Department of Geosciences, 2004.
Paleoseismology, active tectonics, and seismic hazards of the Verdugo fault zone, Los Angeles County, California.  James F. Dolan.  The University, 1997.
Segmentation, slip rates and earthquake dimensions in the active fold-thrust belt of northern Los Angeles Basin, California.  Robert S. Yeats.  Dept. of Geosciences, Oregon State University, 1996.
Geology of Earthquakes.  Robert S. Yeats, Kerry E. Sieh, and Clarence R. Allen.  Oxford University Press, 1997.  ISBN 0-19-507827-6.
Living with Earthquakes in California: A Survivor's Guide.  Robert S. Yeats.  Oregon State University Press, 2001.  ISBN 0-87071-493-7.
The geology of a portion of the western Verdugo mountains.  Robert L. Johnston, 1938.
Geology Underfoot in Southern California.  Allen Glazner.  Mountain Press, 1993.  ISBN 0-87842-289-7.
Assembling California.  John McPhee.  Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1993.  ISBN 0-374-10645-2.
Cycles of Rock and Water:  At the Pacific Edge.  Kenneth A. Brown.  HarperCollins, 1993.  ISBN 0-06-016056-X.
Birds of Los Angeles:  Including Santa Barbara, Ventura and Orange Counties.  Chris C. Fisher and Herbert Clarke. Lone Pine Publications, 1997.  ISBN 1-55105-104-4.
A Flora of Southern California.  Philip A. Munz.  University of California Press, 1974.
Native Trees of Southern California.  Victor P. Peterson.  University of California Press, 1970.
Illustrated Guide to the Oaks of the Southern Californian Floristic Province:  The Oaks of Coastal Southern California and Northwestern Baja California.  Fred M. Roberts, Jr.  F. M. Roberts Publishing, 1995.  ISBN 0-9643847-0-1.
Plant Life in the World's Mediterranean Climates:  California, Chile, South Africa, Australia and the Mediterranean Basin.  Peter R. Dallman.  University of California, 1998.  ISBN 0-520-20808-0.
Island Called California: An Ecological Introduction to Its Natural Communities.  Elna Bakker.  Second Edition.  University of California Press, 1984.  ISBN 0-520-04947-0.
Natural History of Vacant Lots (California Natural History Guides).  Matthew F. Vessel and Herbert H. Wong.  University of California Press, 1987.  ISBN 0-520-05250-1.
Growing California Native Plants.  Marjorie D. Schmidt.  University of California Press, 1981.  ISBN 0-520-03762-6.
Introduction to California Beetles.  Arthur V. Evans and James N. Hogue.  University of California Press, 2004.  ISBN 0-520-24035-9.
Geography and evolution in the pocket gophers of California.  Joseph Grinnell.  USGPO, 1927.
Evolutionary Dynamics of the Pocket Gopher Thomomys Bottae, With Emphasis on California Populations.  James L. Patton and Margaret F. Smith.  University of California Press, 1990.  ISBN 0-520-09761-0.
The Verdugos of Hispanic California.  Marie E. Northrop.  1978.
Maps[edit]
Angeles Front Country Trail Map. San Rafael, California: Tom Harrison Maps, 2001. ISBN 1-877689-65-3.
Verdugo Mountains trail map. Matt Maxon, 2005 http://pctmap.homeip.net/data/PDF/Verdugo%20Mtns%2001-16-05.pdf[permanent dead link]
Burbank, California, 7.5 minute topographic quadrangle map. United States Geological Survey.
Pasadena, California, 7.5 minute topographic quadrangle map. United States Geological Survey.
Mount La Tuna - 34°13′24″N 118°20′15″W﻿ / ﻿34.22327°N 118.33763°W﻿ / 34.22327; -118.33763
Verdugo Peak -  34°12′55″N 118°16′48″W﻿ / ﻿34.21518°N 118.28001°W﻿ / 34.21518; -118.28001
Tongva Peak -   34°11′50″N 118°15′30″W﻿ / ﻿34.19722°N 118.25833°W﻿ / 34.19722; -118.25833
Mount Thom -    34°11′14″N 118°15′21″W﻿ / ﻿34.18717°N 118.25596°W﻿ / 34.18717; -118.25596
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Verdugo Mountains.
Outdoor LA Hiking Trails - Hiking trails in the area with maps and directions to the trailheads.
Verdugo Mountains Park Property - California State Parks page for the Verdugo Mountains Park Property
Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study - National Park Service page about the Rim of the Valley Corridor
LA Trails - Verdugo Mountains - a listing of most of the hiking trails in the Verdugo Mountains.
Verdugo Hills Community Hike - an annual community hike and trail run in the Verdugos involving the Glendale, Burkbank, and Crescenta Valley communities
Parks in the Verdugo &amp; San Rafael Mountains Region - Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy page, with an interagency list of parks and other protected areas in the Verdugo Mountains/San Rafael Hills area
Places adjacent to Verdugo Mountains
Sun Valley in the San Fernando Valley
Crescenta Valley - I-210
Crescenta Valley - I-210
Burbank in the San Fernando Valley  - I-5
Verdugo Mountains
San Gabriel Valley -Arroyo Seco - Pasadena
San Fernando Valley - Griffith Park
Glendale - Ventura Freeway
Eagle Rock
vteGreater Los Angeles AreaCentral city
Los Angeles
Counties
Los Angeles
Orange
Riverside
San Bernardino
Ventura
Cities &gt;200k
Anaheim
Fontana
Glendale
Huntington Beach
Irvine
Long Beach
Moreno Valley
Oxnard
Riverside
San Bernardino
Santa Ana
Santa Clarita
Cities and towns100k−200k
Burbank
Corona
Costa Mesa
Downey
East Los Angeles
El Monte
Fullerton
Garden Grove
Inglewood
Jurupa Valley
Lancaster
Murrieta
Norwalk
Ontario
Orange
Palmdale
Pasadena
Pomona
Rancho Cucamonga
Rialto
Simi Valley
South Gate
Temecula
Thousand Oaks
Torrance
Ventura
Victorville
West Covina
Other towns
Agoura Hills
Beverly Hills
Calabasas
Carson
Culver City
El Segundo
Gardena
Hawthorne
Hermosa Beach
Lawndale
Lennox
Lomita
Malibu
Manhattan Beach
Moorpark
Palos Verdes Estates
Rancho Palos Verdes
Redondo Beach
Santa Monica
West Carson
West Hollywood
Willowbrook
Othercommunities
Bell Canyon
Cornell
Kagel Canyon
Ladera Heights
Marina del Rey
Monte Nido
Oak Park
Rolling Hills Estates
View Park–Windsor Hills
West Athens
West Rancho Dominguez
Area regions
Los Angeles metropolitan area
Anaheim–Santa Ana edge city
Antelope Valley
Central Los Angeles
Coachella Valley
Colorado Desert
Conejo Valley
Downtown Los Angeles
East Los Angeles
Gateway Cities
Greater Hollywood
Harbor Area
Inland Empire
Mojave Desert
Northeast Los Angeles
Northwest Los Angeles
Palos Verdes Peninsula
Pomona Valley
San Bernardino Valley
San Fernando Valley
San Gabriel Valley
Santa Ana Valley
Santa Clarita Valley
Simi Valley
South Bay
South Coast Metro
South Los Angeles
Victor Valley
Westside Los Angeles
Landforms
Los Angeles Basin
Baldwin Hills (range)
Catalina Island
Channel Islands
Chino Hills
Hollywood Hills
Oxnard Plain
Palos Verdes Hills
Puente Hills
San Fernando Valley
San Gabriel Mountains
San Gabriel Valley
San Jacinto Mountains
Santa Ana Mountains
Santa Monica Mountains
Santa Susana Mountains
Sierra Pelona Ridge
Simi Hills
Verdugo Mountains
Bodies of water
Los Angeles River
Aliso Creek
Arroyo Calabasas
Arroyo Seco
Ballona Creek
Bell Creek
Big Bear Lake
Coyote Creek
Lake Arrowhead
Lake Gregory
Lake Perris
Lake Piru
Los Angeles Aqueduct
Malibu Creek
Mojave River
Pacific Ocean
Pyramid Lake
Rio Hondo
San Gabriel River
San Juan Creek
San Pedro Bay
Santa Ana River
Santa Clara River
Santa Margarita River
Santa Monica Bay
Tujunga Wash
vteProtected areas of CaliforniaNational Park SystemNational Parks
Channel Islands
Death Valley
Joshua Tree
Kings Canyon
Lassen Volcanic
Pinnacles
Redwood
Sequoia
Yosemite
National PreservesMojaveNational Monuments
Cabrillo
Castle Mountains
César E. Chávez
Devils Postpile
Lava Beds
Muir Woods
Tule Lake
National SeashoresPoint ReyesNational Historical Parks
Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front
San Francisco Maritime
National Historic Sites
Eugene O'Neill
Fort Point
John Muir
Manzanar
National Memorials
Port Chicago Naval Magazine
National Recreation Areas
Golden Gate
Santa Monica Mountains
Whiskeytown
State ParksState Parks
Ahjumawi Lava Springs
Andrew Molera
Angel Island
Año Nuevo
Anza-Borrego Desert
Arthur B. Ripley Desert Woodland
Bidwell–Sacramento River
Big Basin Redwoods
Border Field
Bothe-Napa Valley
Burton Creek
Butano
Calaveras Big Trees
Castle Crags
Castle Rock
Caswell Memorial
China Camp
Chino Hills
Clear Lake
Crystal Cove
Cuyamaca Rancho
D. L. Bliss
Del Norte Coast Redwoods
Donner Memorial
Ed Z'berg Sugar Pine Point
Emerald Bay
The Forest of Nisene Marks
Fort Ord Dunes
Fremont Peak
Garrapata
Gaviota
Great Valley Grasslands
Grizzly Creek Redwoods
Grover Hot Springs
Hearst San Simeon
Hendy Woods
Henry Cowell Redwoods
Henry W. Coe
Humboldt Lagoons
Humboldt Redwoods
Jedediah Smith Redwoods
Julia Pfeiffer Burns
Leo Carrillo
Limekiln
MacKerricher
Malibu Creek
Manchester
McArthur–Burney Falls Memorial
McLaughlin Eastshore
Mendocino Headlands
Mendocino Woodlands
Montaña de Oro
Morro Bay
Mount Diablo
Mount San Jacinto
Mount Tamalpais
Navarro River Redwoods
Pacheco
Palomar Mountain
Patrick's Point
Pfeiffer Big Sur
Placerita Canyon
Plumas-Eureka
Point Mugu
Portola Redwoods
Prairie Creek Redwoods
Red Rock Canyon
Richardson Grove
Rio de Los Angeles
Robert Louis Stevenson
Russian Gulch
Saddleback Butte
Salt Point
Samuel P. Taylor
San Bruno Mountain
Sinkyone Wilderness
South Yuba River
Sugarloaf Ridge
Sutter Buttes
Tolowa Dunes
Tomales Bay
Topanga
Trione-Annadel
Van Damme
Washoe Meadows
Wilder Ranch
StateNatural Reserves
Antelope Valley California Poppy
Armstrong Redwoods
Azalea
Caspar Headlands
John B. Dewitt
John Little
Jug Handle
Kruse Rhododendron
Los Osos Oaks
Mailliard Redwoods
Mono Lake Tufa
Montgomery Woods
Point Lobos
Smithe Redwoods
Torrey Pines
Tule Elk
StateMarine Reserves
Albany 
Big Creek 
Carmel Pinnacles
Del Mar Landing
Emeryville Crescent
Estero de Limantour
Fitzgerald 
Laguna Beach
Lovers Point
Montara
Moro Cojo Slough 
Natural Bridges
Point Lobos 
Point Sur 
Russian River
Stewarts Point 
StateHistoric Parks
Anderson Marsh
Antelope Valley Indian Museum
Bale Grist Mill
Benicia Capitol
Bidwell Mansion
Bodie
California Citrus
California State Indian Museum
Chumash Painted Cave
Colonel Allensworth
Columbia
Cowell Ranch/John Marsh
El Presidio de Santa Barbara
Empire Mine
Folsom Powerhouse
Fort Humboldt
Fort Ross
Fort Tejon
Governor's Mansion
Hearst San Simeon
Indian Grinding Rock
Jack London
La Purísima Mission
Leland Stanford Mansion
Los Angeles
Los Encinos
Malakoff Diggins
Marconi Conference Center
Marshall Gold Discovery
Monterey
Old Sacramento
Old Town San Diego
Olompali
Petaluma Adobe
Pigeon Point Light Station
Pío Pico
Point Sur
Railtown 1897
San Juan Bautista
San Pasqual Battlefield
Santa Cruz Mission
Santa Susana Pass
Shasta
Sonoma
Sutter's Fort
Tomo-Kahni
Wassama Round House
Watts Towers of Simon Rodia
Weaverville Joss House
Will Rogers
William B. Ide Adobe
Woodland Opera House
State Beaches
Asilomar
Bean Hollow
Bolsa Chica
Cardiff
Carlsbad
Carmel River
Carpinteria
Caspar Headlands
Cayucos
Corona del Mar
Dockweiler
Doheny
El Capitán
Emma Wood
Gray Whale Cove
Greenwood
Half Moon Bay
Huntington
Leucadia
Lighthouse Field
Little River
Malibu Lagoon
Mandalay
Manresa
Marina
McGrath
Montara
Monterey
Moonlight
Morro Strand
Moss Landing
Natural Bridges
New Brighton
Pacifica
Pelican
Pescadero
Pismo
Point Dume
Point Sal
Pomponio
Refugio
Robert H. Meyer Memorial
Robert W. Crown Memorial
Salinas River
San Buenaventura
San Clemente
San Elijo
San Gregorio
San Onofre
Santa Monica
Schooner Gulch
Seacliff
Silver Strand
Sonoma Coast
South Carlsbad
Sunset
Thornton
Torrey Pines
Trinidad
Twin Lakes
Westport-Union Landing
Will Rogers
William Randolph Hearst Memorial
Zmudowski
StateRecreation Areas
Admiral William Standley
Auburn
Austin Creek
Benbow Lake
Benicia
Bethany Reservoir
Brannan Island
Candlestick Point
Castaic Lake
Colusa-Sacramento River
Folsom Lake
Franks Tract
George J. Hatfield
Harry A. Merlo
Kenneth Hahn
Kings Beach
Lake Del Valle
Lake Oroville
Lake Perris
Lake Valley
Martial Cottle Park
McConnell
Millerton Lake
Picacho
Providence Mountains
Salton Sea
San Luis Reservoir
Silverwood Lake
Standish-Hickey
Tahoe
Turlock Lake
Woodson Bridge
State VehicularRecreation Areas
Carnegie
Clay Pit
Heber Dunes
Hollister Hills
Hungry Valley
Oceano Dunes
Ocotillo Wells
Prairie City
Other
Burleigh H. Murray Ranch
California State Mining and Mineral Museum
California State Capitol Museum
California State Railroad Museum
Castro Adobe
Delta Meadows
Estero Bay
Hatton Canyon
Indio Hills Palms
Point Cabrillo Light Station
Point Lobos Ranch
Point Montara Light Station
Reynolds Wayside Campground
San Timoteo Canyon
Stone Lake
Verdugo Mountains
Ward Creek
Wildwood Canyon
National Forests and GrasslandsNational Forestsand Grasslands
Angeles
Butte Valley NG
Cleveland
Eldorado
Humboldt-Toiyabe
Inyo
Klamath
Lake Tahoe Basin
Lassen
Los Padres
Mendocino
Modoc
Plumas
Rogue River – Siskiyou
San Bernardino
Sequoia
Shasta–Trinity
Sierra
Six Rivers
Stanislaus
Tahoe
National WildernessPreservation System
Agua Tibia
Ansel Adams
Bucks Lake
Caribou
Carson-Iceberg
Castle Crags
Cucamonga
Desolation
Dick Smith
Dinkey Lakes
Emigrant
Golden Trout
Hoover
Inyo Mountains
Ishi
Jennie Lakes
John Muir
Kaiser
Marble Mountain
Mokelumne
Mount Shasta Wilderness
North Fork
Pine Creek
San Gabriel
Sanhedrin
San Jacinto
San Rafael
Sespe
Siskiyou
Snow Mountain
South Fork Eel River
South Sierra
South Warner
Thousand Lakes
Trinity Alps
Ventana
Yolla Bolly–Middle Eel
Yuki
National Monumentsand Recreation Areas
Giant Sequoia National Monument
San Gabriel Mountains National Monument
Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains National Monument
Smith River National Recreation Area
Shasta–Trinity National Recreation Area
Sand to Snow National Monument
State Forests
Boggs Mountain Demonstration
Ellen Pickett
Jackson Demonstration
Las Posadas
LaTour Demonstration
Mount Zion
Mountain Home Demonstration
Soquel Demonstration
National Wildlife Refuges
Antioch Dunes
Bitter Creek
Blue Ridge
Butte Sink
Castle Rock
Clear Lake
Coachella Valley
Colusa
Delevan
Don Edwards San Francisco Bay
Ellicott Slough
Farallon
Guadalupe-Nipomo Dunes
Hopper Mountain
Humboldt Bay
Kern
Lower Klamath
Marin Islands
Merced
Modoc
Pixley
Sacramento
Sacramento River
Salinas River
San Diego Bay
San Diego
San Joaquin River
San Luis
San Pablo Bay
Seal Beach
Sonny Bono Salton Sea
Stone Lakes
Sutter
Tijuana Slough
Tule Lake
State Wildlife AreasWildlifeAreas
Antelope Valley
Ash Creek
Bass Hill
Battle Creek
Big Lagoon
Big Sandy
Biscar
Butte Valley
Buttermilk Country
Cache Creek
Camp Cady
Cantara/Ney Springs
Cedar Roughs
Cinder Flats
Collins Eddy
Colusa Bypass
Coon Hollow
Cottonwood Creek
Crescent City Marsh
Crocker Meadows
Daugherty Hill
Decker Island
Doyle
Dutch Flat
Eastlker River
Eel River
Elk Creek Wetlands
Elk River
Fay Slough
Feather River
Fitzhugh Creek
Fremont Weir
Grass Lake
Gray Lodge
Green Creek
Grizzly Island
Hallelujah Junction
Heenan Lake
Hill Slough
Hollenbeck Canyon
Honey Lake
Hope Valley
Horseshoe Ranch
Imperial
Indian Valley
Kelso Peak and Old Dad Mountains
Kinsman Flat
Knoxville
Laguna
Lake Berryessa
Lake Earl
Lake Sonoma
Little Panoche Reservoir
Los Banos
Lower Sherman Island
Mad River Slough
Marble Mountains
Mendota
Merrill's Landing
Miner Slough
Monache Meadows
Morro Bay
Moss Landing
Mouth of Cottonwood Creek
Napa-Sonoma Marshes
North Grasslands
O'Neill Forebay
Oroville
Petaluma Marsh
Pickel Meadow
Pine Creek
Point Edith
Putah Creek
Rector Reservoir
Red Lake
Rhode Island
Sacramento River
San Felipe Valley
San Jacinto
San Luis Obispo
San Luis Reservoir
San Pablo Bay
Santa Rosa
Shasta Valley
Silver Creek
Slinkard/Little Antelope
Smithneck Creek
South Fork
Spenceville
Surprise Valley
Sutter Bypass
Tehama
Truckee River
Upper Butte Basin
Volta
Warner Valley
Waukell Creek
West Hilmar
Westlker River
White Slough
Willow Creek
Yolo Bypass
EcologicalReserves
Albany Mudflats
Alkali Sink
Allensworth
Atascadero Creek Marsh
Bair Island
Baldwin Lake
Batiquitos Lagoon
Blue Sky
Boden Canyon
Boggs Lake
Bolsa Chica
Bonny Doon
Buena Vista Lagoon
Butler Slough
Butte Creek Canyon
Butte Creek House
Buttonwillow
By Day Creek
Calhoun Cut
Canebrake
Carlsbad Highlands
Carmel Bay
Carrizo Canyon
Carrizo Plains
China Point
Clover Creek
Coachella Valley
Coal Canyon
Corte Madera Marsh
Crestridge
Dairy Mart Ponds
Dales Lake
Del Mar Landing
Eden Landing
Elkhorn Slough
Estelle Mountain
Fall River Mills
Fish Slough
Fremont Valley
Goleta Slough
Indian Joe Spring
Kaweah
Kerman
King Clone
Laguna Laurel
Loch Lomond Vernal Pool
Lokern
Magnesia Spring
Marin Islands
Mattole River
McGinty Mountain
Morro Dunes
Morro Rock
Napa River
North Table Mountain
Oasis Spring
Panoche Hills
Peytonia Slough
Pine Hill
Piute Creek
Pleasant Valley
Rancho Jamul
Redwood Shores
River Springs Lakes
Saline Valley
San Dieguito Lagoon
San Elijo Lagoon
San Felipe Creek
San Joaquin River
Santa Rosa Plateau
Springville
Stone Corral
Sycamore Canyon
Sycuan Peak
Thomes Creek
Tomales Bay
Upper Newport Bay
Watsonville Slough
West Mojave Desert
Woodbridge
Yaudanchi
MarineProtectedAreas
Abalone Cove
Albany Mudflats
Anacapa
Anacapa
Año Nuevo
Asilomar
Atascadero Beach
Bair Island
Batiquitos Lagoon
Big Creek
Big Creek
Big Sycamore Canyon
Bodega
Bolsa Chica
Cambria
Cardiff and San Elijo
Carmel Bay
Carmel Pinnacles
Carrington Point
Catalina Marine Science Center
Corte Madera Marsh
Crystal Cove
Dana Point
Del Mar Landing
Doheny
Doheny
Duxbury Reef
Edward F. Ricketts
Elkhorn Slough
Elkhorn Slough
Encinitas
Estero de Limantour
Fagan Marsh
Farallon Islands
Farnsworth Bank
Fort Ross
Gerstle Cove
Goleta Slough
Greyhound Rock
Gull Island
Harris Point
Heisler Park
Hopkins
Irvine Coast
James V. Fitzgerald
Judith Rock
Julia Pfeiffer Burns
La Jolla
Laguna Beach
Lovers Cove (Catalina Island)
Lovers Point
MacKerricher
Manchester and Arena Rock
Marin Islands
Mia J. Tegner
Moro Cojo Slough
Morro Bay
Morro Bay
Morro Beach
Natural Bridges
Niguel
Pacific Grove Marine Gardens
Painted Cave
Peytonia Slough
Piedras Blancas
Piedras Blancas
Pismo
Pismo-Oceano Beach
Point Buchon
Point Buchon
Point Cabrillo
Point Fermin
Point Lobos
Point Reyes Headlands
Point Sur
Point Sur
Portuguese Ledge
Punta Gorda
Redwood Shores
Refugio
Richardson Rock
Robert E. Badham
Robert W. Crown
Russian Gulch
Russian River
Salt Point
San Diego-Scripps
San Dieguito Lagoon
San Elijo Lagoon
Santa Barbara Island
Scorpion
Skunk Point
Sonoma Coast
Soquel Canyon
South Laguna Beach
South Point
Swami’s
Tomales Bay
Upper Newport Bay
Van Damme
Vandenberg
White Rock (Cambria)
Bureau of Land Management National Landscape Conservation SystemNational Monuments
Berryessa Snow Mountain
California Coastal
Carrizo Plain
Cascade-Siskiyou
Fort Ord
Mojave Trails
Sand to Snow
Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains
NationalConservation Areas
California Desert
King Range
Wilderness Areas
Argus Range
Big Maria Mountains
Bigelow Cholla Garden
Bighorn Mountain
Black Mountain
Bright Star
Bristol Mountains
Cadiz Dunes
Carrizo Gorge
Chemehuevi Mountains
Chimney Peak
Chuckwalla Mountains
Chumash
Cleghorn Lakes
Clipper Mountain
Coso Range
Coyote Mountains
Darwin Falls
Dead Mountains
Dick Smith
El Paso Mountains
Fish Creek Mountains
Funeral Mountains
Golden Valley
Grass Valley
Headwaters Forest Reserve
Hollow Hills
Ibex
Indian Pass
Inyo Mountains
Jacumba
Kelso Dunes
Kiavah
Kingston Range
Little Chuckwalla Mountains
Little Picacho
Machesna Mountain
Matilija
Malpais Mesa
Manly Peak
Mecca Hills
Mesquite
Newberry Mountains
Nopah Range
North Algodones Dunes
North Mesquite Mountains
Old Woman Mountains
Orocopia Mountains
Otay Mountain
Owens Peak
Pahrump Valley
Palen/McCoy
Palo Verde Mountains
Picacho Peak
Piper Mountain
Piute Mountains
Red Buttes
Resting Spring Range
Rice Valley
Riverside Mountains
Rodman Mountains
Sacatar Trail
Saddle Peak Hills
San Gorgonio
Santa Lucia
Santa Rosa
Sawtooth Mountains
Sespe
Sheephole Valley
South Nopah Range
Stateline
Stepladder Mountains
Surprise Canyon
Sylvania Mountains
Trilobite
Turtle Mountains
Whipple Mountains
National Marine Sanctuaries
Channel Islands
Cordell Bank
Greater Farallones
Monterey Bay
National Estuarine Research Reserves
Elkhorn Slough
San Francisco Bay
Tijuana River Estuary
University of California Natural Reserve System
Angelo Coast Range Reserve
Año Nuevo Island
Blue Oak Ranch Reserve
Bodega Marine
Box Springs
Boyd Deep Canyon Desert Research Center
Burns Piñon Ridge
Carpinteria Salt Marsh
Chickering American River
Coal Oil Point
Dawson Los Monos Canyon
Eagle Lake Field Station
Elliott Chaparral
Emerson Oaks
Fort Ord
Hastings
James San Jacinto Mountains
Jenny Pygmy Forest
Jepson Prairie
Kendall-Frost Mission Bay Marsh
Kenneth S. Norris Rancho Marino
Landels-Hill Big Creek
McLaughlin
Motte Rimrock
Quail Ridge
Sagehen Creek Field Station
San Joaquin Freshwater Marsh
Santa Cruz Island
Scripps Coastal
Sedgwick
Stebbins Cold Canyon
Steele Burnand Anza-Borrego
Stunt Ranch Santa Monica Mountains
Sweeney Granite Mountains Desert Research Center
Valentine Eastern Sierra
Younger Lagoon
Heritage registers
National Natural Landmarks
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Verdugo_Mountains&amp;oldid=973486061"
		Categories: Verdugo MountainsTransverse RangesMountain ranges of Los Angeles County, CaliforniaGeography of Los AngelesGeography of the San Fernando ValleyBurbank, CaliforniaGlendale, CaliforniaSun Valley, Los AngelesMountain ranges of Southern CaliforniaHidden categories: Coordinates on WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2019All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2016Articles with permanently dead external linksCommons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		CebuanoSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 17 August 2020, at 13:44 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
