	Għaxaq
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions.  (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Local council in Southern Region, MaltaGħaxaqĦal GħaxaqAsciakLocal councilGħaxaq skyline
FlagCoat of armsMotto(s): Laeta Sustineo (Ħienja nżommu)GħaxaqCoordinates: 35°50′54″N 14°31′2″E﻿ / ﻿35.84833°N 14.51722°E﻿ / 35.84833; 14.51722Coordinates: 35°50′54″N 14°31′2″E﻿ / ﻿35.84833°N 14.51722°E﻿ / 35.84833; 14.51722Country MaltaRegionSouthern RegionDistrictSouth Eastern DistrictBordersBirżebbuġa, Gudja, Luqa, Marsaxlokk, Santa Luċija, Tarxien, Żejtun, ŻurrieqGovernment • MayorDarren Abela (PL)Area • Total3.9 km2 (1.5 sq mi)Population (Jan. 2019) • Total4,860 • Density1,200/km2 (3,200/sq mi)Demonym(s)Għaxqi (m), Għaxqija (f), Għaxqin (pl)Time zoneUTC+1 (CET) • Summer (DST)UTC+2 (CEST)Postal codeGXQDialing code356ISO 3166 codeMT-17Patron saintAssumption of Our LadyPadron of the churchDay of festa15 AugustWebsiteOfficial website
Għaxaq (Maltese: Ħal Għaxaq, Maltese pronunciation: [ħal aːʃaʔ]) is a village in the Southern Region of Malta, with a population of 4,722 people as of March 2014.[1] It is mainly a residential area surrounded by land used for agricultural purposes. The village's name is probably related to the noble family named Axiaq (also spelt Axiak or Asciak) which had feudal lands in the area in the fourteenth century,[2] or it may be derived from the Maltese word meaning delight.
The village's main church is dedicated to the Assumption of Mary, popularly known in Maltese as Santa Marija, which is therefore the village's patron saint. Celebrations take place annually from 30 July to 15 August. A secondary feast is celebrated on the week before the first Sunday of June. This is dedicated to Saint Joseph, husband of Mary. He is also the saint padron of the church.   During these feasts the village is decorated with highly artistic statues and colourful lights and banners.
Contents
1 Saint Mary's Parish Church
2 Band Clubs
2.1 Saint Mary Band Club Ħal Għaxaq A.D 1873
2.2 Saint Joseph Band Club
3 Carnival
4 Interesting places in Għaxaq
5 Zones in Għaxaq
6 Għaxaq main roads
7 Għaxaq Local Council
8 Sport
9 References
10 External links
Saint Mary's Parish Church[edit]
  Għaxaq Parish Church decorated for the main village feast dedicated to Saint Mary 
  Saint Mary's Statue (1808) known as Santa Marija or L-Assunta
Għaxaq's main church is dedicated to the Assumption of Our Lady and it is known for its baroque architecture. The present church was consecrated on 2 May 1784, after around fifty years of hard work by the villagers, which gave a helping hand in building their religious shrine. One could find a large number of artistic and valuable items in this church which were made by renowned Maltese and foreign artists. Of these one could find a number of highly artistic statues which all seek great devotion in a way or another. The titular statue which depicts the Assumption in heaven of our Lady was carved in wood by Mariano Gerada in 1808.[citation needed] Another statue which could be found in this church is that of the Main Secondary Feast of Saint Joseph which was made by Fratelli Bertarelli of Milan in Italy in 1932 and is also carved in wood. Other statues are those of Our Lady of the Rosary carved in wood by Alessandro Farrugia, Our Lady of Fátima and a set of traditional eight statues depicting the passion of Jesus Christ. These were made throughout the years with statues of Maltese artists Peppi Vella, Carlo Darmanin and family Camilleri Cauchi, namely Alfred and Aaron Camilleri Cauchi. The statue of dead Christ known as Il-Monument was brought to Għaxaq from Rome in the 18th century. The paintings which decorate the church's ceiling were painted by Emvin Cremona during the 1960s while other works of art date back to the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries mostly painted by Maltese artists; Gio Nicola Buhagiar, Francesco Zahra, Rokku Buhagiar and Gianni Vella among others. Apart from the Titular feast of Saint Mary which is celebrated annually on 15 August, other feasts are celebrated along the year. These are; the commemoration of the Passion of Jesus Christ and his rise from dead- with the traditional Good Friday procession, which in Għaxaq is held on Palm Sunday evening, celebrated a Sunday before Easter, the Main Secondary feast of Saint Joseph celebrated on the first Sunday of June, Corpus Christi on the second Sunday of June and Our Lady of the Rosary on the second Sunday of October. These are all organised by their respective confraternities. On the night between 24 and 25 December, a solemn mass is held to celebrate Christmas.
Band Clubs[edit]
Għaxaq is known for its two feasts which are celebrated on 15 August and the first Sunday of June. The Holy family seeks a great devotion in this village, in fact it is the only village in Malta which have its Titular and Main Secondary feast dedicated to Saint Mary and Saint Joseph respectively, which together with Jesus, they form the Holy Family. Throughout the years two Social and Musical Societies emerged in the village and they contribute for the external celebrations of their respective patron saint.[citation needed]
Saint Mary Band Club Ħal Għaxaq A.D 1873[edit]
St. Mary's Band Club has a very interesting history. Back in time, precisely in 1808, this club was set up from simply a wine shop to the majestic band club present today.
The feast of St Mary has been and still is a popular feast among the Maltese people especially where the village church has as its Titular St. Mary.[citation needed] Traditionally St Mary is linked to the Santa Maria Convoy which brought much needed food supplies to the Maltese. This took place exactly on 15 August 1942, during the peak of the Second World War. Having its church dedicated to the Assumption of Mary since 1511, the village of Għaxaq in the south east of Malta is no exception.
Since 1808, the village is documented to have celebrated this feast, both the religious part and the secular part, with vigor and pomp.  The religious aspect was reflected in the fact that an artistic statue was made by a well known sculpture Mariano Gerada. This was financed by Gio Maria Farrugia (1763–1828) and cost 800 scudi. Of course an artistic plinth was also made. The Farrugia family tree is endorsed at St. Mary's Band Club. In those days they had their wine shop. They talked mostly about the feast, year in year out. One shop was called Ta’ Indri l-Mikk. People used to meet there and given the aspirations of the locals, this stop was the forerunner of the present band club. Indri himself, took it upon himself to organize the outside (secular) feast of St. Mary.  The square in front of the church was decorated with colourful bundings. The church’s façade was illuminated with hundreds of oil lamps. This was the work of the Gatt, Duca, Desira and Scicluna's families.
In 1873 the people named above explored the possibility of moving from this shop to much bigger premises. Agreement was reached on buying a big house in the square known as Ta’ Bukkettuwa. After initial work was completed the club came to be known as Circolo La Stella. 
It was at Ta' Petistina that the first general sitting was held and it was agreed that the first official committee members were to be drawn following a ballot. The first steering committee was elected and was made up of Felic Gatt, Joseph Grima, Joseph Scicluna and Geraldu Scicluna.  More members were added like Agius, Abdilla and Gravina. Later on, in 1935, a band was also formed under the name Santa Maria Band.
Many years passed since then and today the band club has a great number of members and followers. Today, the Band Club is also renowned for the organisation of the Ghaxaq Music Festival, a 2 to 5 day festival organised before the feast of Saint Mary in August. Since 2008, the Festival has featured renowned World Artists and Tribute Bands such as; Tracy Shields in a Tribute to Celine Dion(2008), Rhapsody UK in a Tribute to the legendary Queen(2009 and 2011), U2UK(2009), ABBA UK(2010), Gimme ABBA(2011), Sheyla Bonnick from the original BoneyM(2011) and the legendary group SMOKIE(2012). This festival actually started in 1998 as a Street Concert and since then it also featured a lot of Maltese groups and singers such as; Tribali, Wintermoods, Scream Daisy, Freddie Portelli, Joe Brown Band and renowned Maltese "Għannejja" among other well known local artists and Dj's such as; Carl Bee, Dj Ruby and Dj Armani.
The Club also possesses a lot of artistic street decorations, having a large number of statues and their pedestals dating back to more than 100 years ago. These together with new sets of drapes, chandeliers and other statues decorate the village during the first two weeks of August.
Fireworks also play an important part during the Maltese traditional feast. The Saint Mary Fireworks Factory consists of a number of voluntary professionals in the art of firework production. These people, have also achieved 1st place in a number of local and International Fireworks Festivals both for the aerial as well as the ground fireworks. The Saint Mary Fireworks Team was also invited to take part as International guests in The 2011 FireworksOne Festival at Foggia,San Severo, Italy. Moreover, after the huge success they achieved in 2011, the Ghaxaq Local Council also presented them with the "Ġieħ Ħal Għaxaq", a prestigious award given annually to people who work and achieve success for the village.
Thus, although a small village, the people of Ghaxaq have at heart the feast of St. Mary and this is reflected in their dedication shown during 3 whole weeks of religious and secular activities for St. Mary’s feast.[3]
Saint Joseph Band Club[edit]
The Saint Joseph Band Club  was established in 1874 with the principal object of organising and enhancing the feast of St. Joseph in collaboration with the Confraternity of Saint Joseph, an older Catholic Church organisation dating back to around 1689. Since then, the Band Club has taken under its remit the external festivities while the Confraternity has concentrated on the liturgical celebrations. The Club used to participate also in the feast of the Assumption of St. Mary until the early 1950s, when this participation was discontinued.
The feast of Saint Joseph is presently celebrated annually on the first Sunday of June, though in past years the date was earlier in May.
The Band Club's biggest ever project is surely its premises.  During a project spanning from the early nineteen-eighties till the official opening in May 2000, the Club acquired both previously-rented and adjacent property, demolished the existing structures and rebuilt a unitary building.  The building is considered as a prime example of Maltese baroque-style architecture, and in certain aspects takes Maltese craftsmanship to new heights.  A visitor to the building should not fail to note the symmetrical curved staircase topped by a dome structure, the various relief sculpture adorning various walls, ceilings, cornices and pedestals and the first floor halls.
At first-floor level, there is also a niche with the older statue of Saint Joseph, which was replaced in 1933 with the present devotional statue retained in the Church for the devotion of the Catholic community.  The older statue has been restored this year 2010 and it transpired that the wooden statue was probably manufactured in Malta at around 1650.  This date is corroborated both by the style of the carving and by the evident aging of the wood.  The present Għaxaq church was built at around that same time.  The statue is therefore key proof to the longevity of the devotion to Saint Joseph and has also significant historical and artistic value, being in absolute terms the oldest existing devotional statue in Għaxaq and actually one of the oldest still in existence on the entire Maltese Islands.
The Band Club is also in possession of two other separate properties: a fireworks factory that is renowned for the quality of its festive fiery production; and a feast decorations factory, comprising a workshop and stores for the Baroque-style festive street decorations.  The fireworks factory won the Villa de Bilbao international fireworks festival edition of 2010 against world-renowned international opponents.[citation needed]
The actual feast of Saint Joseph is celebrated throughout ten days.  While big crowds of people throng the streets of Għaxaq, the village puts on its best dress in green (the colour of the Saint Joseph clan) and is entirely decorated with the decorations manufactured or otherwise managed by the above-mentioned workshop.  The Club's own band and other guest bands play the typical Maltese band-marches to the general merry-making of the Josephite supporters, guests and tourists who are always welcome to join.  Street concerts are also held, many times attracting national attention.  Various fireworks displays are held throughout the week, culminating in the Saturday night show known as 'The Flames of Fire' and the Sunday evening 'kaxxa nfernali'.  The final celebration is the devotional procession of the statue of Saint Joseph through the village streets - a fitting conclusion for the Patron Saint.  This feast has over the years increased its popularity and has become a regular crowd-puller, putting Għaxaq in the top echelons of Maltese festivals.
"Ite ad Josef".
Carnival[edit]
Another yearly event is the carnival celebration held in February.[4]
Interesting places in Għaxaq[edit]
  The Għaxaq Semaphore Tower, which was built in 1848
Dar tal-Bebbux/Dar tal-Massi - sea-shells decorated house (St. Mary Street, behind the parish church)[5]
St. Philip's Chapel (at St. Philip Square)
St. Lucy's Chapel (at the Outskirts of the village)
Christ the Redeemer Chapel (at the outskirts of the village)
Together with the Parish Church and the two masterpieces, the Band Clubs (as mentioned above)
Għaxaq Semaphore Tower
Zones in Għaxaq[edit]
Bir id-Deheb (Well of Gold)
Ħas-Saptan (Saptan Town)
Il-Miksur (The Broken)
Qasam Ħal-Dmikki
Tal-Barrani (Foreigner's Village)
Tal-Garda
Tal-Ġebel (Rocks' Village)
Tal-Millieri
Tal-Qattus (Cat's Village)
Tal-Wilġa (Open Field's Village)
Għaxaq main roads[edit]
Dawret Ħal Għaxaq (Għaxaq By-Pass)
Triq G.M. Farrugia (G.M. Farrugia Street)
Triq il-Belt Valletta (Valletta Road)
Triq il-Ġistakor (Tail-Coat Street)
Triq il-Garakol (Garakol Street)
Triq il-Gudja (Gudja Road)
Triq il-Milwa (Skein Street)
Triq iż-Żejtun (Zejtun Road)
Triq San Filippu (St. Philip Street)
Pjazza San Filippu (St. Philip Square)
Triq Santa Marija (St. Mary Street)
Vjal il-Labour (Labour Avenue)
Triq it-Tgezwira
Triq Ganmari Dalli
Pjazza Santu Rokku (St. Rocco Square)
Triq San Pawl (St. Paul Street)
Triq il-Knisja (church's street)
Triq Marjanu Gerada
Għaxaq Local Council[edit]
The current Għaxaq local council members are:
Darren Abela (Mayor - PL)
Christine Dalli (PL)
Rose Agius (PN)
Keith Fenech (PL)
Andreas Gatt (PL)
Sport[edit]
Ghaxaq F.C.
References[edit]
^ "Estimated Population by Locality 31st March, 2014". Government of Malta. 16 May 2014. Archived from the original on 21 June 2015..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Ħal Għaxaq". lc.gov.mt. Retrieved 3 April 2016.
^ "Saint Mary Fireworks Factory Ghaxaq - Malta". stmaryfireworksghaxaq.webs.com. Archived from the original on 16 July 2013. Retrieved 5 June 2015.
^ Demarco, Joanna (24 February 2019). "Ghouls and satire: This alternative carnival in Ghaxaq will make your hair stand on end!". Guide Me Malta. Archived from the original on 24 February 2020.
^ https://web.archive.org/web/20190706105601/https://www.maltapark.com/item/details/8005828
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Għaxaq.
Għaxaq Local Council
St. Mary's Band Club
St. Joseph's Band Club
The village of Għaxaq
Labour Party Għaxaq
vteLocal councils and administrative committees of Malta and GozoMaltaLocal councils
Attard
Balzan
Birgu
Birkirkara
Birżebbuġa
Cospicua
Dingli
Fgura
Floriana
Għargħur
Għaxaq
Gudja
Gżira
Ħamrun
Iklin
Senglea
Kalkara
Kirkop
Lija
Luqa
Marsa
Marsaskala
Marsaxlokk
Mdina
Mellieħa
Mġarr
Mosta
Mqabba
Msida
Mtarfa
Naxxar
Paola
Pembroke
Pietà
Qormi
Qrendi
Rabat
Safi
St. Julian's
San Ġwann
St. Paul's Bay
Santa Luċija
Santa Venera
Siġġiewi
Sliema
Swieqi
Tarxien
Ta' Xbiex
Valletta
Xgħajra
Żabbar
Żebbuġ
Żejtun
Żurrieq
MaltaAdministrative committees
Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq
Baħrija
Bubaqra
Burmarrad &amp; Wardija
Fleur-de-Lys
Gwardamanġa
Ħal Farruġ
Kappara
Madliena
Paceville
San Pietru
Swatar
Tal-Virtù
GozoLocal councils
Fontana
Għajnsielem
Għarb
Għasri
Kerċem
Munxar
Nadur
Qala
Rabat (Victoria)
San Lawrenz
Sannat
Xagħra
Xewkija
Żebbuġ
GozoAdministrative committees
Marsalforn
Santa Luċija
Xlendi
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Għaxaq&amp;oldid=950341372"
		Categories: GħaxaqTowns in MaltaLocal councils of MaltaHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with style issues from March 2016All articles with style issuesUse dmy dates from December 2013Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCoordinates on WikidataPages using infobox settlement with possible demonym listPages using infobox settlement with unknown parametersArticles containing Maltese-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2019Articles with unsourced statements from April 2019Commons category link from Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàCebuanoDeutschЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoLietuviųMagyarMaltiNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaРусскийSicilianuŚlůnskiSvenskaاردو中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 11 April 2020, at 15:45 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
