	Jacques Maritain
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		French philosopher
It has been suggested that Integral humanism (Maritain) be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since June 2020.
This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations.  (November 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Jacques MaritainMaritain in the 1930sBorn(1882-11-18)18 November 1882Paris, FranceDied28 April 1973(1973-04-28) (aged 90)Toulouse, FranceAlma materUniversity of ParisSpouse(s)Raïssa Maritain
   ​ ​(m. 1904; died 1960)​Era20th-century philosophyRegionWestern philosophySchoolExistential ThomismMain interestsPhilosophy of religionpolitical theoryphilosophy of sciencemetaphysics
Influences
Thomas AquinasAristotleCharles BaudelaireÉtienne GilsonCharles Maurras
Influenced
Mortimer J. AdlerYves CongarJean DaujatJohn HaddoxIvan IllichJohn F. X. KnasasEmmanuel Mounier[1]Yves Simon
Part of a series onChristian democracy
Organizations
List of Christian democratic parties
Centrist Democrat International
Christian Democrat Organization of America
European People's Party
European Christian Political Movement
Konrad Adenauer Foundation
Conservative Christian Fellowship
Centre for European Studies
Center for Public Justice
Ideas
Catholic social teaching
Christian corporatism
Christian ethics
Communitarianism
Consistent life ethic
Cultural mandate
Dignity of labor
Distributism
Just war theory
Neo-Calvinism
Neo-scholasticism
Popolarismo
Progressive conservatism
Social conservatism
Social market economy
Solidarity
Sphere sovereignty
Stewardship
Subsidiarity
Documents
Rerum novarum
Kuyper's Stone Lectures on Calvinism
Graves de communi re
Quadragesimo anno
Laborem exercens
Sollicitudo rei socialis
Centesimus annus
Laudato si'
People
Guillaume Groen van Prinsterer
Herman Dooyeweerd
Konrad Adenauer
Giulio Andreotti
Alcide De Gasperi
Eduardo Frei Montalva
Keith Joseph
Wilhelm Emmanuel von Ketteler
Helmut Kohl
Abraham Kuyper
Pope Leo XIII
Jacques Maritain
Pope Pius XI
Robert Schuman
Luigi Sturzo
José María Arizmendiarrieta
.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}Politics portalvte
Part of a series onCatholic philosophy  Aquinas, Scotus, and Ockham
Ethics
Cardinal virtues
Just price
Just war
Probabilism
Natural law
Personalism
Social teaching
Virtue ethics
Schools
Augustinianism
Cartesianism
Molinism
Occamism
Salamanca
Scholasticism
Neo-scholasticism
Scotism
Thomism
Philosophers
Ancient
Ambrose
Athanasius the Great
Augustine of Hippo
Clement of Alexandria
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Gregory of Nyssa
Irenaeus of Lyons
Jerome
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Justin Martyr
Origen
Paul the Apostle
Tertullian
Postclassical
Pseudo-Dionysius
Boethius
Isidore of Seville
Scotus Eriugena
Bede
Anselm of Canterbury
Hildegard of Bingen
Peter Abelard
Symeon the New Theologian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hugh of Saint Victor
Thomas Aquinas
Benedict of Nursia
Pope Gregory I
Peter Lombard
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Duns Scotus
Roger Bacon
Giles of Rome
James of Viterbo
Giambattista Vico
Gregory of Rimini
William of Ockham
Catherine of Siena
Paul of Venice
Modern
Baltasar Gracián
Erasmus of Rotterdam
Thomas Cajetan
Nicholas of Cusa
Luis de Molina
Teresa of Ávila
Thomas More
Francis de Sales
Francisco de Vitoria
Domingo de Soto
Martín de Azpilcueta
Tomás de Mercado
Antoine Arnauld
René Descartes
Robert Bellarmine
Ignacy Krasicki
Hugo Kołłątaj
François Fénelon
Alphonsus Liguori
Nicolas Malebranche
Blaise Pascal
Francisco Suárez
Giovanni Botero
Felicité de Lamennais
Antonio Rosmini
John Henry Newman
Contemporary
Pope Benedict XVI
Pope John Paul II
G. E. M. Anscombe
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Maurice Blondel
G. K. Chesterton
Yves Congar
Henri de Lubac
John Finnis
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Étienne Gilson
René Girard
Nicolás Gómez Dávila
Romano Guardini
John Haldane
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Bernard Lonergan
Marshall McLuhan
Alasdair MacIntyre
Gabriel Marcel
Jean-Luc Marion
Jacques Maritain
Emmanuel Mounier
Josef Pieper
Karl Rahner
Edith Stein
Charles Taylor
 Catholicism portal
 Philosophy portalvte
Jacques Maritain (French: [maʁitɛ̃]; 18 November 1882 – 28 April 1973) was a French Catholic philosopher. Raised Protestant, he was agnostic before converting to Catholicism in 1906. An author of more than 60 books, he helped to revive Thomas Aquinas for modern times, and was influential in the development and drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Pope Paul VI presented his "Message to Men of Thought and of Science" at the close of Vatican II to Maritain, his long-time friend and mentor. The same pope had seriously considered making him a lay cardinal, but Maritain rejected it.[2] Maritain's interest and works spanned many aspects of philosophy, including aesthetics, political theory, philosophy of science, metaphysics, the nature of education, liturgy and ecclesiology.
Contents
1 Life
2 Work
3 Metaphysics and epistemology
4 Ethics
5 Political theory
5.1 Criticism
6 Sayings
7 Writings
7.1 Significant works in English
7.2 Other works in English
7.3 Original works in French
8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 Further reading
12 External links
Life[edit]
Maritain was born in Paris, the son of Paul Maritain, who was a lawyer, and his wife Geneviève Favre, the daughter of Jules Favre, and was reared in a liberal Protestant milieu. He was sent to the Lycée Henri-IV. Later, he attended the Sorbonne, studying the natural sciences: chemistry, biology and physics.
At the Sorbonne, he met Raïssa Oumançoff, a Russian Jewish émigré. They married in 1904. A noted poet and mystic, she participated as his intellectual partner in his search for truth. Raïssa's sister, Vera Oumançoff, lived with Jacques and Raïssa for almost all their married life.
At the Sorbonne, Jacques and Raïssa soon became disenchanted with scientism, which could not, in their view, address the larger existential issues of life. In 1901, in light of this disillusionment, they made a pact to commit suicide together if they could not discover some deeper meaning to life within a year. They were spared from following through on this because, at the urging of Charles Péguy, they attended the lectures of Henri Bergson at the Collège de France. Bergson's critique of scientism dissolved their intellectual despair and instilled in them "the sense of the absolute." Then, through the influence of Léon Bloy, they converted to the Roman Catholic faith in 1906.[3]
In the fall of 1907 the Maritains moved to Heidelberg, where Jacques studied biology under Hans Driesch. Hans Driesch's theory of neo-vitalism attracted Jacques because of its affinity with Henri Bergson. During this time, Raïssa fell ill, and during her convalescence, their spiritual advisor, a Dominican friar named Humbert Clérissac, introduced her to the writings of Thomas Aquinas. She read them with enthusiasm and, in turn, exhorted her husband to examine the saint's writings. In Thomas, Maritain found a number of insights and ideas that he had believed all along. He wrote:
Thenceforth, in affirming to myself, without chicanery or diminution, the authentic value of the reality of our human instruments of knowledge, I was already a Thomist without knowing it ... When several months later I came to the Summa Theologiae, I would construct no impediment to its luminous flood.
From the Angelic Doctor (the honorary title of Aquinas), he was led to "The Philosopher", as Aquinas called Aristotle. Still later, to further his intellectual development, he read the neo-Thomists.
Beginning in 1912, Maritain taught at the Collège Stanislas. He later moved to the Institut Catholique de Paris. For the 1916–1917 academic year, he taught at the Petit Séminaire de Versailles.  In 1930 Maritain and Étienne Gilson received honorary doctorates in philosophy from the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum.[4] In 1933, he gave his first lectures in North America in Toronto at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies. He also taught at Columbia University; at the Committee on Social Thought, University of Chicago; at the University of Notre Dame, and at Princeton University.
From 1945 to 1948, he was the French ambassador to the Holy See.
Afterwards, he returned to Princeton University where he achieved the "Elysian status" (as he put it) of a professor emeritus in 1956. Raïssa Maritain died in 1960. After her death, Jacques published her journal under the title "Raïssa's Journal." For several years Maritain was an honorary chairman of the Congress for Cultural Freedom, appearing as a keynote speaker at its 1960 conference in Berlin.[5]
From 1961, Maritain lived with the Little Brothers of Jesus in Toulouse, France. He had an influence on the order since its foundation in 1933. He became a Little Brother in 1970[6]. In a 1938 interview published by the Commonweal magazine, they asked if he was a freemason. Maritain replied:That question offends me, for I should have a horror of belonging to Freemasonry. So much the worse for well-intentioned people whose anxiety and need for explanations would have been satisfied by believing me to be one.[7]  Tomb of Raïssa and Jacques Maritain
Jacques and Raïssa Maritain are buried in the cemetery of Kolbsheim, a little French village in Alsace where he had spent many summers at the estate of his friends, Antoinette and Alexander Grunelius.[8]
A cause for beatification of him and his wife Raïssa is being planned.[9]
Work[edit]
The foundation of Maritain's thought is Aristotle, Aquinas, and the Thomistic commentators, especially John of St. Thomas. He is eclectic in his use of these sources. Maritain's philosophy is based on evidence accrued by the senses and acquired by an understanding of first principles. Maritain defended philosophy as a science against those who would degrade it and promoted philosophy as the "queen of sciences".
In 1910, Jacques Maritain completed his first contribution to modern philosophy, a 28-page article titled, "Reason and Modern Science" published in Revue de Philosophie (June issue). In it, he warned that science was becoming a divinity, its methodology usurping the role of reason and philosophy. Science was supplanting the humanities in importance.[10]
In 1917, a committee of French bishops commissioned Jacques to write a series of textbooks to be used in Catholic colleges and seminaries. He wrote and completed only one of these projects, titled Elements de Philosophie (Introduction of Philosophy) in 1920. It has been a standard text ever since in many Catholic seminaries. He wrote in his introduction:
If the philosophy of Aristotle, as revived and enriched by Thomas Aquinas and his school, may rightly be called the Christian philosophy, both because the church is never weary of putting it forward as the only true philosophy and because it harmonizes perfectly with the truths of faith, nevertheless it is proposed here for the reader's acceptance not because it is Christian, but because it is demonstrably true. This agreement between a philosophic system founded by a pagan and the dogmas of revelation is no doubt an external sign, an extra-philosophic guarantee of its truth; but from its own rational evidence, that it derives its authority as a philosophy
During the Second World War, Jacques Maritain protested the policies of the Vichy government while teaching at the Pontifical Institute for Medieval Studies in Canada. "Moving to New York, Maritain became deeply involved in rescue activities, seeking to bring persecuted and threatened academics, many of them Jews, to America. He was instrumental in founding the École Libre des Hautes Études, a kind of university in exile that was, at the same time, the center of Gaullist resistance in the United States". After the war, in a papal audience on 16 July 1946, he tried unsuccessfully to have Pope Pius XII officially denounce anti-semitism.[11]
Many of his American papers are held by the University of Notre Dame, which established The Jacques Maritain Center in 1957. The Cercle d'Etudes Jacques &amp; Raïssa Maritain is an association founded by the philosopher himself in 1962 in Kolbsheim (near Strasbourg, France), where the couple is also buried. The purpose of these centers is to encourage study and research of Maritain's thought and expand upon them. It is also absorbed in translating and editing his writings.
Metaphysics and epistemology[edit]
Maritain's philosophy is based on the view that metaphysics is prior to epistemology. Being is first apprehended implicitly in sense experience, and is known in two ways. First, being is known reflexively by abstraction from sense experience. One experiences a particular being, e.g. a cup, a dog, etc. and through reflexion ("bending back") on the judgement, e.g. "this is a dog", one recognizes that the object in question is an existent. Second, in light of attaining being reflexively through apprehension of sense experience one may arrive at what Maritain calls "an Intuition of Being". For Maritain this is the point of departure for metaphysics; without the intuition of being one cannot be a metaphysician at all. The intuition of being involves rising to the apprehension of ens secundum quod est ens (being insofar as it is a being). In Existence and the Existent he explains:
"It is being, attained or perceived at the summit of an abstractive intellection, of an eidetic or intensive visualization which owes its purity and power of illumination only to the fact that the intellect, one day, was stirred to its depths and trans-illuminated by the impact of the act of existing apprehended in things, and because it was quickened to the point of receiving this act, or hearkening to it, within itself, in the intelligible and super-intelligible integrity of the tone particular to it." (p. 20)
In view of this priority given to metaphysics, Maritain advocates an epistemology he calls "Critical Realism". Maritain's epistemology is not "critical" in Kant's sense, which held that one could only know anything after undertaking a thorough critique of one's cognitive abilities. Rather, it is critical in the sense that it is not a naive or non-philosophical realism, but one that is defended by way of reason. Against Kant's critical project Maritain argues that epistemology is reflexive; you can only defend a theory of knowledge in light of knowledge you have already attained. Consequently, the critical question is not the question of modern philosophy – how do we pass from what is perceived to what is. Rather, "Since the mind, from the very start, reveals itself as warranted in its certitude by things and measured by an esse[clarification needed] independent of itself, how are we to judge if, how, on what conditions, and to what extent it is so both in principle and in the various moments of knowledge?"
In contrast idealism inevitably ends up in contradiction, since it does not recognize the universal scope of the first principles of identity, contradiction, and finality. These become merely laws of thought or language, but not of being, which opens the way to contradictions being instantiated in reality.
Maritain's metaphysics ascends from this account of being to a critique of the philosophical aspects of modern science, through analogy to an account of the existence and nature of God as it is known philosophically and through mystical experience.
Ethics[edit]
Maritain was a strong defender of a natural law ethics. He viewed ethical norms as being rooted in human nature. For Maritain the natural law is known primarily, not through philosophical argument and demonstration, but rather through "Connaturality". Connatural knowledge is a kind of knowledge by acquaintance. We know the natural law through our direct acquaintance with it in our human experience. Of central importance, is Maritain's argument that natural rights are rooted in the natural law. This was key to his involvement in the drafting of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Another important aspect of his ethics was his insistence upon the need for moral philosophy to be conducted in a theological context. While a Christian could engage in speculative thought about nature or metaphysics in a purely rational manner and develop an adequate philosophy of nature of metaphysics, this is not possible with ethics. Moral philosophy must address the actual state of the human person, and this is a person in a state of grace. Thus, "moral philosophy adequately considered" must take into account properly theological truths. It would be impossible, for instance, to develop an adequate moral philosophy without giving consideration to properly theological facts such as original sin and the supernatural end of the human person in beatitude. Any moral philosophy that does not take into account these realities that are only known through faith would be fundamentally incomplete.[12]
Political theory[edit]
Maritain advocated what he called "Integral Humanism". He argued that secular forms of humanism were inevitably anti-human in that they refused to recognize the whole person. Once the spiritual dimension of human nature is rejected, we no longer have an integral, but merely partial humanism, one which rejects a fundamental aspect of the human person. Accordingly, in Integral Humanism he explores the prospects for a new Christendom, rooted in his philosophical pluralism, in order to find ways Christianity could inform political discourse and policy in a pluralistic age. In this account he develops a theory of cooperation, to show how people of different intellectual positions can nevertheless cooperate to achieve common practical aims. Maritain's political theory was extremely influential, and was a primary source behind the Christian Democratic movement.
Maritain also corresponded with, and was a friend of[13] the American radical community organizer Saul Alinsky[14] and French Prime Minister Robert Schuman.[15]
In the study The Radical Vision of Saul Alinsky, author P. David Finks noted that "For years Jacques Maritain had spoken approvingly to Montini of the democratic community organizations built by Saul Alinsky". Accordingly, in 1958 Maritain arranged for a series of meetings between Alinsky and Archbishop Montini in Milan. Before the meetings, Maritain had written to Alinsky: "the new cardinal was reading Saul’s books and would contact him soon".[16]
In an interview from 2016, Pope Francis praised Maritain among a small list of French liberal thinkers.[17]
Criticism[edit]
Major criticisms of Maritain have included: 
An overdependence upon late scholastic commentators at the expense of fidelity to Aquinas' own text. However, Maritain is frequently developing his own thought to address contemporary problems. His work is that of a philosopher who makes use of historical sources to develop his own positions rather than that of a historian of philosophy.[citation needed]
Santiago Ramírez[who?] argued that Maritain's moral philosophy adequately considered could not be distinguished in any meaningful way from moral theology as such.[18]
Tracey Rowland, a theologian at the University of Notre Dame (Australia) has argued that the lack of a fully developed philosophy of culture in Maritain and others (notably Rahner) was responsible for an inadequate notion of culture in the documents of Vatican II and thereby for much of the misapplication of the conciliar texts in the life of the church following the council.[19]
Maritain's political theory has been criticized for a democratic pluralism that appeals to something very similar to the later liberal philosopher John Rawls' conception of an overlapping consensus of reasonable views. It is argued that such a view illegitimately presupposes the necessity of pluralistic conceptions of the human good.[20]
Sayings[edit]
"Vae mihi si non-Thomistizavero" [Woe to me if I do not Thomisticize].[21]
"Je n’adore que Dieu" [I adore only God].
"The artist pours out his creative spirit into a work; the philosopher measures his knowing spirit by the real."
"I do not know if Saul Alinsky knows God. But I assure you that God knows Saul Alinsky."
"We do not need a truth to serve us, we need a truth that we can serve"
Writings[edit]
Significant works in English[edit]
Introduction to Philosophy, Christian Classics, Inc., Westminster, MD, 1st. 1930, 1991.
The Degrees of Knowledge, orig. 1932
Integral Humanism, orig. 1936
An Introduction to Logic (1937)
A Preface To Metaphysics (1939) (1939)
Education at the Crossroads, engl. 1942
The Person and the Common Good, fr. 1947
Art and Scholasticism with other essays, Sheed and Ward, London, 1947
Existence and the Existent, (fr. 1947) trans. by Lewis Galantiere and Gerald B. Phelan, Image Books division of Doubleday &amp; Co., Inc., Garden City, NY, 1948, Image book, 1956. .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 978-0-8371-8078-6
Philosophy of Nature (1951)
The Range of Reason, engl. 1952
Approaches to God, engl. 1954
Creative Intuition in Art and Poetry, engl. 1953
Man and The State, (orig.) University of Chicago Press, Chicago, ILL, 1951.
A Preface to Metaphysics, engl. 1962
God and the Permission of Evil, trans. Joseph W. Evans, The Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee, WI, 1966 (orig. 1963).
Moral Philosophy, 1964
The Peasant of the Garonne, An Old Layman Questions Himself about the Present Time, trans. Michael Cuddihy and Elizabeth Hughes, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, NY, 1968; orig. 1966.
The Education of Man, The Educational Philosophy of Jacques Maritain., ed. D./I. Gallagher, Notre Dame/Ind. 1967
Other works in English[edit]
Religion and Culture (1931)
The Things that are Not Caesar's (1931)
Theonas; Conversations of a Sage (1933)
Freedom in the Modern World (1935)
True Humanism (1938) (Integral Humanism, 1968)
A Christian Looks at the Jewish Question (1939)
The Twilight of Civilization (1939)
Scholasticism and Politics, New York 1940
Science and Wisdom (1940)
Religion and the Modern World (1941)
France, My Country Through the Disaster (1941)
The Living Thoughts of St. Paul (1941)
France, My Country, Through the Disaster (1941)
Ransoming the Time (1941)
Christian Humanism (1942)
Saint Thomas and the problem of evil, Milwaukee 1942;
Essays in Thomism, New York 1942;
The Rights of Man and Natural Law (1943)
Prayer and Intelligence (1943)
Give John a Sword (1944)
The Dream of Descartes (1944)
Christianity and Democracy (1944)
Messages 1941–1944, New York 1945;
A Faith to Live by (1947)
The Person and the Common Good (1947)
Art &amp; Faith (with Jean Cocteau 1951)
The Pluralist Principle in Democracy (1952)
Creative Intuition in Art and History (1953)
An Essay on Christian Philosophy (1955)
The Situation of Poetry with Raïssa Maritain, 1955)
Bergsonian Philosophy (1955)
Reflections on America (1958)
St. Thomas Aquinas (1958)
The Degrees of Knowledge (1959)
The Sin of the Angel: An Essay on a Re-interpretation of some Thomistic Positions (1959)
Liturgy and Contemplation (1960)
The Responsibility of the Artist (1960)
On the Use of Philosophy (1961)
God and the Permission of Evil (1966)
Challenges and Renewals, ed. J.W. Evans/L.R. Ward, Notre Dame/Ind. 1966
On the Grace and Humanity of Jesus (1969)
On the Church of Christ: The Person of the Church and her Personnel (1973)
Notebooks (1984)
Natural Law: reflections on theory and practice (ed. with Introductions and notes, by William Sweet), St. Augustine's Press [distributed by University of Chicago Press], 2001; Second printing, corrected, 2003.
Original works in French[edit]
La philosophie bergsonienne, 1914 (1948)
Eléments de philosophie, 2 volumes, Paris 1920/23
Art et scolastique, 1920
Théonas ou les entretiens d’un sage et de deux philosophes sur diverses matières inégalement actuelles, Paris, Nouvelle librairie nationale, 1921
Antimoderne, Paris, Édition de la Revue des Jeunes, 1922
Réflexions sur l’intelligence et sur sa vie propre, Paris, Nouvelle librairie nationale, 1924.
Trois réformateurs : Luther, Descartes, Rousseau, avec six portraits, Paris [Plon], 1925
Réponse à Jean Cocteau, 1926
Une opinion sur Charles Maurras et le devoir des catholiques, Paris [Plon], 1926
Primauté du spirituel, 1927
Pourquoi Rome a parlé (coll.), Paris, Spes, 1927
Quelques pages sur Léon Bloy, Paris 1927
Clairvoyance de Rome (coll.), Paris, Spes, 1929
Le docteur angélique, Paris, Paul Hartmann, 1929
Religion et culture, Paris, Desclée de Brouwer, 1930 (1946)
Le thomisme et la civilisation, 1932
Distinguer pour unir ou Les degrés du savoir, Paris 1932
Le songe de Descartes, Suivi de quelques essais, Paris 1932
De la philosophie chrétienne, Paris, Desclée de Brouwer, 1933
Du régime temporel et de la liberté, Paris, DDB, 1933
Sept leçons sur l'être et les premiers principes de la raison spéculative, Paris 1934
Frontières de la poésie et autres essais, Paris 1935
La philosophie de la nature, Essai critique sur ses frontières et son objet, Paris 1935 (1948)
Lettre sur l’indépendance, Paris, Desclée de Brouwer, 1935.
Science et sagesse, Paris 1935
Humanisme intégral. Problèmes temporels et spirituels d'une nouvelle chrétienté; zunächst spanisch 1935), Paris (Fernand Aubier), 1936 (1947)
Les Juifs parmi les nations, Paris, Cerf, 1938
Situation de la Poesie, 1938
Questions de conscience : essais et allocutions, Paris, Desclée de Brouwer, 1938
La personne humaine et la societé, Paris 1939
Le crépuscule de la civilisation, Paris, Éd. Les Nouvelles Lettres, 1939
Quattre essais sur l'ésprit dans sa condition charnelle, Paris 1939 (1956)
De la justice politique, Notes sur le présente guerre, Paris 1940
A travers le désastre, New York 1941 (1946)
Conféssion de foi, New York 1941
La pensée de St.Paul, New York 1941 (Paris 1947)
Les Droits de l'Homme et la Loi naturelle, New York 1942 (Paris 1947)
Christianisme et démocratie, New York 1943 (Paris 1945)
Principes d'une politique humaniste, New York 1944 (Paris 1945);
De Bergson à Thomas d'Aquin, Essais de Métaphysique et de Morale, New York 1944 (Paris 1947)
A travers la victoire, Paris 1945;
Pour la justice, Articles et discours 1940–1945, New York 1945;
Le sort de l'homme, Neuchâtel 1945;
Court traité de l'existence et de l'existent, Paris 1947;
La personne et le bien commun, Paris 1947;
Raison et raisons, Essais détachés, Paris 1948
La signification de l'athéisme contemporain, Paris 1949
Neuf leçons sur les notions premières de la philosophie morale, Paris 1951
Approaches de Dieu, Paris 1953.
L'Homme et l'Etat (engl.: Man and State, 1951) Paris, PUF, 1953
Pour une philosophie de l'éducation, Paris 1959
Le philosophe dans la Cité, Paris 1960
La philosophie morale, Vol. I: Examen historique et critique des grands systèmes, Paris 1960
Dieu et la permission du mal, 1963
Carnet de notes, Paris, DDB, 1965
L'intuition créatrice dans l'art et dans la poésie, Paris, Desclée de Brouwer, 1966 (engl. 1953)
Le paysan de la Garonne. Un vieux laïc s’interroge à propos du temps présent, Paris, DDB, 1966
De la grâce et de l'humanité de Jésus, 1967
De l'Église du Christ. La personne de l'église et son personnel, Paris 1970
Approaches sans entraves, posthum 1973.
La loi naturelle ou loi non écrite, texte inédit, établi par Georges Brazzola. Fribourg, Suisse: Éditions universitaires, 1986. [Lectures on Natural Law. Tr. William Sweet. In The Collected Works of Jacques Maritain, Vol. VI, Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, (forthcoming).]
Oeuvres complètes de Jacques et Raïssa Maritain, 16 Bde., 1982–1999.
See also[edit]
Personalism
Notes[edit]
^ Deweer, Dries (2013). "The Political Theory of Personalism: Maritain and Mounier on Personhood and Citizenship" (PDF). International Journal of Philosophy and Theology. 74 (2): 115. doi:10.1080/21692327.2013.809869. ISSN 2169-2335.
^ Donald DeMarco. "The Christian Personalism of Jacques Maritain". EWTN. Archived from the original on 5 December 2000.
^ Hanna 1996, p. 39
^ Piero Viotto, Grandi amicizie: i Maritain e i loro contemporanei, 38, https://books.google.com/books?id=aonOg8KLOdIC&amp;pg=PA38 Accessed 28 February 2016. Jean Leclercq, Di grazia in grazia: memorie, 60. https://books.google.com/books?id=jxKnMfTj81AC&amp;pg=PA60 Accessed 28 February 2016
^ "What was the Congress for Cultural Freedom?". www.newcriterion.com.
^ Picón, María Laura (2009). "«Jacques Maritain y los Pequeños Hermanos de Jesús»". Studium Filosofía y Teología (in Spanish). T.12, Fasc. 24: 403–414. ISSN 0329-8930.
^ "An Interview with Jacques Maritain | Commonweal Magazine". www.commonwealmagazine.org. Retrieved 21 November 2019.
^ The most comprehensive biography of the Maritians is: Jean-Luc Barre, "Jacques And Raissa Maritain: Beggars For Heaven", University of Notre Dame Press.
^ Beatification process for Jacques and Raissa Maritain could begin on YouTube (8 February 2011)
^ Hanna 1996, p. 40
^ Richard Francis Crane (2011). "Heart-Rending Ambivalence: Jacques Maritain and the Complexity of Postwar Catholic Philosemitism". Studies in Christian-Jewish Relations. 6: 8–9.
^ Maritain, An Essay on Christian Philosophy, (NY: Philosophical Library, 1955), pp. 38 ff.
^ "Wolfe, C.J. "Lessons from the Friendship of Jacques Maritain with Saul Alinsky" he Catholic Social Science Review 16 (2011): 229–240" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 April 2014.
^ Doering, Bernard E. (1987). "Jacques Maritain and His Two Authentic Revolutionaries" (PDF).  In Kennedy, Leonard A (ed.). Thomistic Papers. 3. Houston, Tex.: Center for Thomistic Studies. pp. 91–116. ISBN 0-268-01865-0. OCLC 17307550.
^ Fimister, Alan Paul (2008). Robert Schuman: Neo-Scholastic Humanism and the Reunification of Europe. p. 131. ISBN 978-90-5201-439-5. OCLC 244339575.
^ Ferrara, Christopher A. "Saul Alinsky and 'Saint' Pope Paul VI: Genesis of the Conciliar Surrender to the World". The Remnant Newspaper. Retrieved 21 November 2019.
^ "INTERVIEW Pope Francis". La Croix (in French). 17 May 2016. ISSN 0242-6056. Retrieved 21 November 2019.
^ Denis J. M. Bradley. Aquinas on the Twofold Human Good: Reason and Human Happiness in Aquinas's Moral Science. Washington: The Catholic University of America Press, 1997.
^ Tracey Rowland, "Culture and the Thomist Tradition: After Vatican II" (Routledge Radical Orthodoxy)
^ Thaddeus J. Kozinski, The Political Problem of Religious Pluralism: And Why Philosophers Can't Solve It, (Lexington Books, 2013)
^ Maritain, Jacques (1946). St. Thomas Aquinas: Angel of the Schools. J. F. Scanlan (trans.). London: Sheed &amp; Ward. p. viii.
References[edit]
G. B. Phelan, Jacques Maritain, NY, 1937.
J.W. Evans in Catholic Encyclopaedia Vol XVI Supplement 1967–1974.
Michael R. Marrus, "The Ambassador &amp; The Pope; Pius XII, Jacques Maritain &amp; the Jews", Commonweal, 22 October 2004
H. Bars, Maritain en notre temps, Paris, 1959.
D. and I. Gallagher, The Achievement of Jacques and Raïssa Maritain: A Bibliography, 1906–1961, NY, 1962.
J. W. Evans, ed., Jacques Maritain: The Man and His Achievement, NY, 1963.
C. A. Fecher, The Philosophy of Jacques Maritain, Westminster, MD, 1963.
Jude P. Dougherty, Jacques Maritain: An Intellectual Profile, Catholic University of America Press, 2003
Ralph McInerny, The Very Rich Hours of Jacques Maritain: A Spiritual Life, University of Notre Dame Press, 2003
Hanna, Martha (1996). The Mobilization of Intellect: French Scholars and Writers During the Great War. Harvard University Press. ISBN 0674577558.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Further reading[edit]
The Social and Political Philosophy of Jacques Maritain (1955)
W. Herberg (ed.), Four Existentialist Theologians (1958)
The Philosophy of Jacques Maritain (1953)
Jacques Maritain, Antimodern or Ultramodern?: An Historical Analysis of His Critics, His Thought, and His Life  (1974)
External links[edit]
 Quotations related to Jacques Maritain at Wikiquote
Études maritainiennes-Maritain Studies
Maritain Center, Kolbsheim (in French)
Cercle d'Etudes J. &amp; R. Maritain at Kolbsheim (France).
Jacques Maritain Center at the University of Notre Dame.
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Jacques Maritain by William Sweet.
International Jacques Maritain Institute.
どんな効果がある？ – 健康食品として知られるフコイダンとは of the primary and secondary literatures on Jacques Maritain.
Works by or about Jacques Maritain in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Jacques Maritain, Man and the State (1951)
vteAesthetics topicsPhilosophers
Abhinavagupta
Theodor W. Adorno
Leon Battista Alberti
Thomas Aquinas
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten
Clive Bell
Bernard Bosanquet
Edward Bullough
R. G. Collingwood
Ananda Coomaraswamy
Arthur Danto
John Dewey
Denis Diderot
Hubert Dreyfus
Curt John Ducasse
Thierry de Duve
Roger Fry
Nelson Goodman
Clement Greenberg
Georg Hegel
Martin Heidegger
David Hume
Immanuel Kant
Paul Klee
Susanne Langer
Theodor Lipps
György Lukács
Jean-François Lyotard
Joseph Margolis
Jacques Maritain
Thomas Munro
Friedrich Nietzsche
José Ortega y Gasset
Dewitt H. Parker
Stephen Pepper
David Prall
Jacques Rancière
Ayn Rand
Louis Lavelle
George Lansing Raymond
I. A. Richards
George Santayana
Friedrich Schiller
Arthur Schopenhauer
Roger Scruton
Irving Singer
Rabindranath Tagore
Giorgio Vasari
Morris Weitz
Johann Joachim Winckelmann
Richard Wollheim
more...
Theories
Classicism
Evolutionary aesthetics
Historicism
Modernism
New Classical
Postmodernism
Psychoanalytic theory
Romanticism
Symbolism
more...
Concepts
Aesthetic emotions
Aesthetic interpretation
Art manifesto
Avant-garde
Axiology
Beauty
Boredom
Camp
Comedy
Creativity
Cuteness
Disgust
Ecstasy
Elegance
Entertainment
Eroticism
Fun
Gaze
Harmony
Judgement
Kama
Kitsch
Life imitating art
Magnificence
Mimesis
Perception
Quality
Rasa
Recreation
Reverence
Style
Sthayibhava
Sublime
Taste
Work of art
Related
Aesthetics of music
Applied aesthetics
Architecture
Art
Arts criticism
Feminist aesthetics
Gastronomy
History of painting
Humour
Japanese aesthetics
Literary merit
Mathematical beauty
Mathematics and architecture
Mathematics and art
Medieval aesthetics
Music theory
Neuroesthetics
Painting
Patterns in nature
Philosophy of design
Philosophy of film
Philosophy of music
Poetry
Sculpture
Theory of painting
Theory of art
Tragedy
Visual arts
Index
Outline
Category
 Philosophy portal
vteSocial and political philosophyAncientphilosophers
Aristotle
Chanakya
Cicero
Confucius
Han Fei
Lactantius
Laozi
Mencius
Mozi
Origen
Plato
Polybius
Shang
Socrates
Sun Tzu
Tertullian
Thucydides
Valluvar
Xenophon
Xunzi
Medievalphilosophers
Alpharabius
Augustine
Averroes
Baldus
Bartolus
Bruni
Dante
Gelasius
al-Ghazali
Giles
Hostiensis
Ibn Khaldun
John of Paris
John of Salisbury
Latini
Maimonides
Marsilius
Nizam al-Mulk
Photios
Thomas Aquinas
Wang
William of Ockham
Early modernphilosophers
Beza
Bodin
Bossuet
Botero
Buchanan
Calvin
Cumberland
Duplessis-Mornay
Erasmus
Filmer
Grotius
Guicciardini
Harrington
Hayashi
Hobbes
Hotman
Huang
Leibniz
Locke
Luther
Machiavelli
Malebranche
Mariana
Milton
Montaigne
More
Müntzer
Naudé
Pufendorf
Rohan
Sansovino
Sidney
Spinoza
Suárez
18th–19th-centuryphilosophers
Bakunin
Bentham
Bonald
Bosanquet
Burke
Comte
Constant
Emerson
Engels
Fichte
Fourier
Franklin
Godwin
Hamann
Hegel
Herder
Hume
Jefferson
Justi
Kant
political philosophy
Kierkegaard
Le Bon
Le Play
Madison
Maistre
Marx
Mazzini
Mill
Montesquieu
Möser
Nietzsche
Novalis
Paine
Renan
Rousseau
Royce
Sade
Schiller
Smith
Spencer
Stirner
Taine
Thoreau
Tocqueville
Vico
Vivekananda
Voltaire
20th–21st-centuryphilosophers
Adorno
Ambedkar
Arendt
Aurobindo
Aron
Azurmendi
Badiou
Baudrillard
Bauman
Benoist
Berlin
Bernstein
Butler
Camus
Chomsky
De Beauvoir
Debord
Du Bois
Durkheim
Dworkin
Foucault
Gandhi
Gauthier
Gehlen
Gentile
Gramsci
Habermas
Hayek
Heidegger
Irigaray
Kautsky
Kirk
Kropotkin
Laclau
Lenin
Luxemburg
Mao
Mansfield
Marcuse
Maritain
Michels
Mises
Mou
Mouffe
Negri
Niebuhr
Nozick
Nursî
Oakeshott
Ortega
Pareto
Pettit
Plamenatz
Polanyi
Popper
Qutb
Radhakrishnan
Rand
Rawls
Rothbard
Russell
Santayana
Sartre
Scanlon
Schmitt
Searle
Shariati
Simmel
Simonović
Skinner
Sombart
Sorel
Spann
Spirito
Strauss
Sun
Taylor
Walzer
Weber
Žižek
Social theories
Anarchism
Authoritarianism
Collectivism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conflict theories
Confucianism
Consensus theory
Conservatism
Contractualism
Cosmopolitanism
Culturalism
Fascism
Feminist political theory
Gandhism
Individualism
Islam
Islamism
Legalism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Mohism
National liberalism
Republicanism
Social constructionism
Social constructivism
Social Darwinism
Social determinism
Socialism
Utilitarianism
Concepts
Civil disobedience
Democracy
Four occupations
Justice
Law
Mandate of Heaven
Peace
Property
Revolution
Rights
Social contract
Society
War
more...
Related articles
Jurisprudence
Philosophy and economics
Philosophy of education
Philosophy of history
Philosophy of love
Philosophy of sex
Philosophy of social science
Political ethics
Social epistemology
Category
vteHistory of Catholic theologyKey figuresGeneral
History of the Catholic Church
Timeline
History of the papacy
Papal primacy
Ecumenical councils
Catholic Bible
Vulgate
Biblical canon
History of Christian theology
Early Church
Paul
Clement of Rome
First Epistle of Clement
Didache
Ignatius of Antioch
Polycarp
Epistle of Barnabas
The Shepherd of Hermas
Aristides of Athens
Justin Martyr
Epistle to Diognetus
Irenaeus
Montanism
Tertullian
Origen
Antipope Novatian
Cyprian
Constantine toPope Gregory I
Eusebius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Arianism
Pelagianism
Nestorianism
Monophysitism
Ephrem the Syrian
Hilary of Poitiers
Cyril of Jerusalem
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Ambrose
John Chrysostom
Jerome
Augustine of Hippo
John Cassian
Orosius
Cyril of Alexandria
Peter Chrysologus
Pope Leo I
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Pope Gregory I
Early Middle Ages
Isidore of Seville
John Climacus
Maximus the Confessor
Monothelitism
Ecthesis
Bede
John of Damascus
Iconoclasm
Transubstantiation dispute
Predestination disputes
Paulinus II of Aquileia
Alcuin
Benedict of Aniane
Rabanus Maurus
Paschasius Radbertus
John Scotus Eriugena
High Middle Ages
Roscellinus
Gregory of Narek
Berengar of Tours
Peter Damian
Anselm of Canterbury
Joachim of Fiore
Peter Abelard
Decretum Gratiani
Bernard of Clairvaux
Peter Lombard
Anselm of Laon
Hildegard of Bingen
Hugh of Saint Victor
Dominic de Guzmán
Robert Grosseteste
Francis of Assisi
Anthony of Padua
Beatrice of Nazareth
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Thomism
Roger Bacon
Mysticism and reforms
Ramon Llull
Duns Scotus
Dante Alighieri
William of Ockham
Richard Rolle
John of Ruusbroec
Catherine of Siena
Bridget of Sweden
Meister Eckhart
Johannes Tauler
Walter Hilton
The Cloud of Unknowing
Heinrich Seuse
Geert Groote
Devotio Moderna
Julian of Norwich
Thomas à Kempis
Nicholas of Cusa
Marsilio Ficino
Girolamo Savonarola
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
ReformationCounter-Reformation
Erasmus
Thomas Cajetan
Thomas More
John Fisher
Johann Eck
Francisco de Vitoria
Thomas of Villanova
Ignatius of Loyola
Francisco de Osuna
John of Ávila
Francis Xavier
Teresa of Ávila
Luis de León
John of the Cross
Peter Canisius
Luis de Molina (Molinism)
Robert Bellarmine
Francisco Suárez
Lawrence of Brindisi
Francis de Sales
Baroque period toFrench Revolution
Tommaso Campanella
Pierre de Bérulle
Pierre Gassendi
René Descartes
Mary of Jesus of Ágreda
António Vieira
Jean-Jacques Olier
Louis Thomassin
Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet
François Fénelon
Cornelius Jansen (Jansenism)
Blaise Pascal
Nicolas Malebranche
Giambattista Vico
Alphonsus Liguori
Louis de Montfort
Maria Gaetana Agnesi
Alfonso Muzzarelli
Johann Michael Sailer
Clement Mary Hofbauer
Bruno Lanteri
19th century
Joseph Görres
Felicité de Lamennais
Luigi Taparelli
Antonio Rosmini
Ignaz von Döllinger
John Henry Newman
Henri Lacordaire
Jaime Balmes
Gaetano Sanseverino
Giovanni Maria Cornoldi
Wilhelm Emmanuel Freiherr von Ketteler
Giuseppe Pecci
Joseph Hergenröther
Tommaso Maria Zigliara
Matthias Joseph Scheeben
Émile Boutroux
Modernism
Neo-Scholasticism
Léon Bloy
Désiré-Joseph Mercier
Friedrich von Hügel
Vladimir Solovyov
Marie-Joseph Lagrange
George Tyrrell
Maurice Blondel
Thérèse of Lisieux
20th century
G. K. Chesterton
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Joseph Maréchal
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
Jacques Maritain
Étienne Gilson
Ronald Knox
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Gabriel Marcel
Marie-Dominique Chenu
Romano Guardini
Edith Stein
Fulton Sheen
Henri de Lubac
Daniel-Rops
Jean Guitton
Josemaría Escrivá
Nouvelle théologie
Karl Rahner
Yves Congar
Bernard Lonergan
Emmanuel Mounier
Jean Daniélou
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Alfred Delp
Thomas Merton
René Girard
Johann Baptist Metz
Jean Vanier
Henri Nouwen
21st century
Carlo Maria Martini
Pope Benedict XVI
Walter Kasper
Raniero Cantalamessa
Michał Heller
Peter Kreeft
Jean-Luc Marion
Tomáš Halík
Scott Hahn
 Catholicism portal
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 90271989
BNE: XX834616
BNF: cb119146209 (data)
CANTIC: a10416559
CiNii: DA00343958
GND: 118731033
ISNI: 0000 0001 2098 8923
LCCN: n80067092
LNB: 000010581
MusicBrainz: c2115ac4-fa35-43d8-9eca-a6a87f4a3e3a
NDL: 00448853
NKC: skuk0000829
NLA: 36583695
NLI: 000089150
NLK: KAC199617735
NSK: 000037289
NTA: 068410670
RERO: 02-A003562607
SNAC: w6s184s9
SUDOC: 027010562
Trove: 1305777
ULAN: 500322114
VcBA: 495/86653
VIAF: 7393855
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n80067092
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jacques_Maritain&amp;oldid=981877319"
		Categories: 1882 births1973 deathsWriters from ParisLycée Henri-IV alumniFrench political philosophersFrench Roman Catholic writersFrench Roman CatholicsCatholic philosophersEpistemologistsMetaphysiciansThomist philosophersVirtue ethicists20th-century French philosophersBenedictine oblatesChristian humanistsAmbassadors of France to the Holy SeeConverts to Roman Catholicism from atheism or agnosticismCommittee on Social ThoughtFrench male writersCritics of atheismCorresponding Fellows of the Medieval Academy of AmericaHidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1: long volume valueCS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles to be merged from June 2020All articles to be mergedArticles lacking in-text citations from November 2010All articles lacking in-text citationsUse dmy dates from December 2019Articles with hCardsWikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2014All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2015All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2019CS1 maint: ref=harvWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with CINII identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with LNB identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with NLK identifiersWikipedia articles with NSK identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with RERO identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote
		Languages
		العربيةAzərbaycancaБеларускаяCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschEestiEspañolEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaItalianoҚазақшаKiswahiliLatinaMagyarമലയാളംمصرىNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeУкраїнськаYorùbá中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 4 October 2020, at 23:10 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
