	Boethius
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Roman senator, magister officiorum and philosopher of the early 6th century
For other people named Boethius, see Boethius (disambiguation).
Anicius Manlius Severinus BoëthiusBoethius teaching his students(initial in a 1385 Italian manuscript of the Consolation of Philosophy)Bornc.  477[1]Rome, Kingdom of OdoacerDied524 (aged about 44)Pavia, Ostrogothic KingdomNotable workThe Consolation of PhilosophyEraMedieval philosophyRegionWestern philosophySchoolNeoplatonismMain interestsproblem of universals, theology, musicNotable ideasThe Wheel of Fortune
Influences
Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Seneca, Plotinus, Porphyry, Saint Augustine, Proclus
Influenced
All Medieval philosophy (notably Johannes Scotus Eriugena, Peter Abelard, Anselm of Canterbury,[2] Saint Albert the Great, Saint Thomas Aquinas, Dante Alighieri)
Saint Severinus BoethiusBornRome, Kingdom of OdoacerDiedPavia, Ostrogothic KingdomVenerated inRoman Catholic Diocese of PaviaMajor shrineSan Pietro in Ciel d'Oro, Pavia, ItalyFeast23 October (Orthodox Tradition)InfluencesAugustine of HippoInfluencedThomas Aquinas
Part of a series onNeoplatonismReconstructed bust believed to represent Plotinus
Concepts
Theory of Forms
Form of the Good
Demiurge
Henosis
Microcosm and macrocosm
Nous
Arche
Logos
Hypostasis
Works
Enneads
De Mysteriis Aegyptiorum
Liber de Causis
The City of God
The Consolation of Philosophy
De Coelesti Hierarchia
De divisione naturae
People
Plato
Ammonius Saccas
Plotinus (disciples)
Origen
Porphyry
Iamblichus
Julian the Apostate
Sallustius
Hypatia
Plutarch of Athens
Macrobius
Augustine of Hippo
Syrianus
Proclus
Pseudo-Dionysius
Damascius
Simplicius of Cilicia
Boethius
Maximus the Confessor
Johannes Scotus Eriugena
Al-Farabi
Brethren of Purity
Solomon ibn Gabirol
Isaac the Blind
Thierry of Chartres
Gemistus Pletho
Marsilio Ficino
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
Giordano Bruno
Cambridge Platonists
Thomas Taylor
Roman Ingarden
Edward N. Zalta
Related topics
Platonism (in the Renaissance)
Platonic Academy
Middle Platonism
Kabbalah
Spirituality
Isma'ilism
Druze
Allegorical interpretations of Plato
Plato's unwritten doctrines
Neoplatonism andChristianity / Gnosticism
 Philosophy portalvte
Anicius Manlius Severinus Boëthius,[a] commonly called Boethius[b] (/boʊˈiːθiəs/; also Boetius /-ʃəs/; c. 477 – 524 AD), was a Roman senator, consul, magister officiorum, and philosopher of the early 6th century. He was born about a year after Odoacer deposed the last Western Roman Emperor and declared himself King of Italy.
Boethius entered public service under Ostrogothic King Theodoric the Great, who later imprisoned and executed him in 524 on charges of conspiracy to overthrow him.[4]
While jailed, Boethius composed his Consolation of Philosophy, a philosophical treatise on fortune, death, and other issues, which became one of the most popular and influential works of the Middle Ages. As the author of numerous handbooks and translator of Plato and Aristotle, he became the main intermediary between Classical antiquity and following centuries.
Contents
1 Early life and rise to power
2 Fall and death
3 Works
3.1 De consolatione philosophiae
3.2 De topicis differentiis
3.3 De arithmetica
3.4 De institutione musica
3.5 Opuscula sacra
4 History of reception
5 Veneration
6 In popular culture
7 See also
8 Notes
9 References
9.1 Works available online
9.2 Bibliography
10 External links
10.1 Works
10.2 On Boethius' life and works
10.3 On Boethius' logic and philosophy
Early life and rise to power[edit]
Boethius was born in Rome to a patrician family around 480,[5] but his exact birth date is unknown.[3] His family, the Anicii, included emperors Petronius Maximus and Olybrius and many consuls.[3] His grandfather, a senator by the same name, was appointed as Praetorian Prefect of Italy. He died in 454, during the palace plot against magister militum Flavius Aetius.[6] Boethius' father, Manlius Boethius, who was appointed consul in 487, died while Boethius was young. Another patrician, Quintus Aurelius Memmius Symmachus, adopted and raised Boethius, instilling in him a love for literature and philosophy.[7]
Both Memmius Symmachus and Boethius were fluent in Greek, an increasingly rare skill at the time in the Western Empire; for this reason, some scholars believe that Boethius was educated in the East. According to John Moorhead, the traditional view is that Boethius studied in Athens, based on Cassiodorus' rhetoric describing Boethius' learning in one of his letters, though this does appear to be a misreading of the text for Boethius' simple facility with the works of Greek philosophers.[8]
Pierre Courcelle has argued that Boethius studied at Alexandria with the Neo-Platonist philosopher Ammonius Hermiae. However, Moorhead observes that the evidence supporting Boethius having studied in Alexandria "is not as strong as it may appear", and adds that Boethius may have been able to acquire his formidable learning without travelling.[9]
On account of his erudition, Boethius entered the service of Theodoric the Great at a young age and was already a senator by the age of 25.[10] His earliest documented acts on behalf of the Ostrogothic ruler were to investigate allegations that the paymaster of Theodoric's bodyguards had debased the coins of their pay; to produce a waterclock for Theodoric to give to king Gundobad of the Burgunds; and to recruit a lyre-player to perform for Clovis, king of the Franks.[11]
Boethius married his foster-father's daughter, Rusticiana; their children included two boys, Symmachus and Boethius.
During Theodoric's reign, Boethius held many important offices, including the consulship in the year 510, but Boethius confesses in his De consolatione philosophiae that his greatest achievement was to have both his sons made co-consuls for the same year (522),[12] one representing the east and the other the west, and finding himself sitting "between the two consuls and as if it were a military triumph [letting his] largesse fulfill the wildest expectations of the people packed in their seats around [him]".[13]
In 522, the same year his two sons were appointed joint consuls, Boethius accepted the appointment to the position of magister officiorum, the head of all the government and court services.[14]
Fall and death[edit]
  Boethius imprisoned, from a 1385 manuscript of the Consolation.
In 520 Boethius was working to revitalize the relationship between the Roman See and the Constantinopolitan See; though still both a part of the same Church, disagreements had begun to emerge between them. This may have set in place a course of events that would lead to loss of royal favour.[14] Five hundred years later, this continuing disagreement led to the East–West Schism in 1054, in which communion between the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodox Church was broken.
In 523 Boethius fell from power. After a period of imprisonment in Pavia for what was deemed a treasonable offence, he was executed in 524.[5][15] The primary sources are in general agreement over the facts of what happened. At a meeting of the Royal Council in Verona, the referendarius Cyprianus accused the ex-consul Caecina Decius Faustus Albinus of treasonous correspondence with Justin I. Boethius leapt to his defense, crying, "The charge of Cyprianus is false, but if Albinus did that, so also have I and the whole senate with one accord done it; it is false, my Lord King."[16]
Cyprianus then also accused Boethius of the same crime and produced three men who claimed they had witnessed the crime. Boethius and Basilius were arrested. First the pair were detained in the baptistery of a church, then Boethius was exiled to the Ager Calventianus, a distant country estate, where he was put to death. Not long afterwards Theodoric had Boethius' father-in-law Symmachus put to death, according to Procopius, on the grounds that he and Boethius together were planning a revolution, and confiscated their property.[17]
"The basic facts in the case are not in dispute," writes Jeffrey Richards. "What is disputed about this sequence of events is the interpretation that should be put on them."[18] Boethius claims his crime was seeking "the safety of the Senate". He describes the three witnesses against him as dishonorable: Basilius had been dismissed from Royal service for his debts, while Venantius Opilio and Gaudentius had been exiled for fraud.[19] However, other sources depict these men in a far more positive light. For example, Cassiodorus describes Cyprianus and Opilio as "utterly scrupulous, just and loyal" and mentions they are brothers and grandsons of the consul Opilio.[20]
Theodoric was feeling threatened by international events. The Acacian Schism had been resolved, and the Nicene Christian aristocrats of his kingdom were seeking to renew their ties with Constantinople. The Catholic Hilderic had become king of the Vandals and had put Theodoric's sister Amalafrida to death,[21] and Arians in the East were being persecuted.[22] Then there was the matter that with his previous ties to Theodahad, Boethius apparently found himself on the wrong side in the succession dispute following the untimely death of Eutharic, Theodoric's announced heir.
The method of Boethius' execution varies in the sources. Perhaps he was killed with an axe or a sword, or possibly he was clubbed to death, or possibly hanged.[23] According to another version a rope was attached round his head and tightened till his eyes bulged out; then his skull was cracked. In any case, his remains were entombed in the church of San Pietro in Ciel d'Oro in Pavia, also the resting place of Augustine of Hippo. In Dante's The Divine Comedy, Paradise, Canto X, lines 121–29, the spirit of Boethius is pointed out by Saint Thomas Aquinas:
Now if thy mental eye conducted beFrom light to light, as I resound their frame,The eighth well worth attention thou wilt see.The soul who pointed out the world's dark ways,To all who listen, its deceits unfolding.Beneath in Cieldauro lies the frameWhence it was driven; -from woe and exile, toThis fair abode of peace and bliss it came.
Past historians have had a hard time accepting a sincere Christian who was also a serious Hellenist.[24] Arnaldo Momigliano argues that "many people have turned to Christianity for consolation. Boethius turned to paganism. His Christianity collapsed—it collapsed so thoroughly that perhaps he did not even notice its disappearance." However, this view does not reflect the majority of current scholarship on the matter.[25] The community that he was part of valued both classical and Christian culture.[26]
Works[edit]
  Narius Manilas Boethius, the father of Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius.
Dates of composition[27]
Mathematical works
De arithmetica (On Arithmetic, c. 500) adapted translation of the Introductionis Arithmeticae by Nicomachus of Gerasa (c. 160 – c. 220).
De musica (On Music, c. 510), based on a lost work by Nicomachus of Gerasa and on Ptolemy's Harmonica.
Possibly a treatise on geometry, extant only in fragments.[28]
Logical Works
A) Translations
Porphyry's Isagoge
In Categorias Aristotelis: Aristotle's Categories
De interpretatione vel periermenias: Aristotle's De Interpretatione
Interpretatio priorum Analyticorum (two versions): Aristotle's Prior Analytics
Interpretatio Topicorum Aristotelis: Aristotle's Topics
Interpretatio Elenchorum Sophisticorum Aristotelis: Aristotle's Sophistical Refutations
B) Commentaries
In Isagogen Porphyrii commenta (two commentaries, the first based on a translation by Marius Victorinus, (c. 504–05); the second based on Boethius' own translation (507–509).
In Categorias Aristotelis (c. 509–11)
In librum Aristotelis de interpretatione Commentaria minora (not before 513)
In librum Aristotelis de interpretatione Commentaria majora  (c. 515–16)
In Aristotelis Analytica Priora (c. 520–523)
Commentaria in Topica Ciceronis (incomplete: the end the sixth book and the seventh are missing)
Original Treatises
De divisione (515–520?)
De syllogismo cathegorico (505–506)
Introductio ad syllogismos cathegoricos (c. 523)
De hypotheticis syllogismis (516–522)
De topicis differentiis (c. 522–23)
Opuscula Sacra (Theological Treatises)
De Trinitate (c. 520–21)
Utrum Pater et Filius et Spiritus Sanctus de divinitate substantialiter praedicentur (Whether Father and Son and Holy Spirit are Substantially Predicated of the Divinity)
Quomodo substantiae in eo quod sint bonae sint cum non sint substantialia bona [also known as De hebdomadibus] (How Substances are Good in that they Exist, when They are not Substantially Good)
De fide Catholica
Contra Eutychen et Nestorium (Against Eutyches and Nestorius)
De consolatione Philosophiae (524–525).
De consolatione philosophiae[edit]
  Lady Philosophy and Boethius from the Consolation, (Ghent, 1485)
Boethius's best known work is the Consolation of Philosophy (De consolatione philosophiae), which he wrote most likely while in exile under house arrest or in prison while awaiting his execution.[29] This work represented an imaginary dialogue between himself and philosophy, with philosophy personified as a woman.[29] The book argues that despite the apparent inequality of the world, there is, in Platonic fashion, a higher power and everything else is secondary to that divine Providence.[4]
Several manuscripts survived and these were widely edited, translated and printed throughout the late 15th century and later in Europe.[29] Beyond Consolation of Philosophy, his lifelong project was a deliberate attempt to preserve ancient classical knowledge, particularly philosophy. Boethius intended to translate all the works of Aristotle and Plato from the original Greek into Latin.[30][31][32]
De topicis differentiis[edit]
His completed translations of Aristotle's works on logic were the only significant portions of Aristotle available in Latin Christendom from the sixth century until the 12th century. However, some of his translations (such as his treatment of the topoi in The Topics) were mixed with his own commentary, which reflected both Aristotelian and Platonic concepts.[29]
Unfortunately, the commentaries themselves have been lost.[33] In addition to his commentary on the Topics, Boethius composed two treatises on Topical argumentation, In Ciceronis Topica and De topicis differentiis. The first work has six books, and is largely a response to Cicero's Topica.[34] The first book of In Ciceronis Topica begins with a dedication to Patricius. It includes distinctions and assertions important to Boethius's overall philosophy, such as his view of the role of philosophy as "establish[ing] our judgment concerning the governing of life",[35] and definitions of logic from Plato, Aristotle and Cicero. He breaks logic into three parts: that which defines, that which divides, and that which deduces.[35]
He asserts that there are three types of arguments: those of necessity, of ready believability, and sophistry.[36] He follows Aristotle in defining one sort of Topic as the maximal proposition, a proposition which is somehow shown to be universal or readily believable.[37] The other sort of Topic, the differentiae, are "Topics that contain and include the maximal propositions"; means of categorizing the Topics which Boethius credits to Cicero.[38]
Book II covers two kinds of topics: those from related things and those from extrinsic topics. Book III discusses the relationship among things studied through Topics, Topics themselves, and the nature of definition. Book IV analyzes partition, designation and relationships between things (such as pairing, numbering, genus, and species, etc.). After a review of his terms, Boethius spends Book V discussing Stoic logic and Aristotelian causation. Book VI relates the nature of the Topic to causes.
In Topicis Differentiis has four books; Book I discusses the nature of rhetorical and dialectical Topics together, Boethius's overall purpose being "to show what the Topics are, what their differentiae are, and which are suited for what syllogisms."[39] He distinguishes between argument (that which constitutes belief) and argumentation (that which demonstrates belief). Propositions are divided into three parts: those that are universal, those that are particular, and those that are somewhere in between.[40] These distinctions, and others, are applicable to both types of Topical argument, rhetorical and dialectical. Books II and III are primarily focused on Topics of dialectic (syllogisms), while Book IV concentrates on the unit of the rhetorical Topic, the enthymeme. Topical argumentation is at the core of Boethius's conception of dialectic, which "have categorical rather than conditional conclusions, and he conceives of the discovery of an argument as the discovery of a middle term capable of linking the two terms of the desired conclusion."[41]
Not only are these texts of paramount importance to the study of Boethius, they are also crucial to the history of topical lore. It is largely due to Boethius that the Topics of Aristotle and Cicero were revived, and the Boethian tradition of topical argumentation spans its influence throughout the Middle Ages and into the early Renaissance: "In the works of Ockham, Buridan, Albert of Saxony, and the Pseudo-Scotus, for instance, many of the rules of consequence bear a strong resemblance to or are simply identical with certain Boethian Topics ... Boethius's influence, direct and indirect, on this tradition is enormous."[42]
It was also in De Topicis Differentiis that Boethius made a unique contribution to the discourse on dialectic and rhetoric. Topical argumentation for Boethius is dependent upon a new category for the topics discussed by Aristotle and Cicero, and "[u]nlike Aristotle, Boethius recognizes two different types of Topics. First, he says, a Topic is a maximal proposition (maxima propositio), or principle; but there is a second kind of Topic, which he calls the differentia of a maximal proposition ..."[43] Maximal propositions are "propositions [that are] known per se, and no proof can be found for these."[44]
This is the basis for the idea that demonstration (or the construction of arguments) is dependent ultimately upon ideas or proofs that are known so well and are so fundamental to human understanding of logic that no other proofs come before it. They must hold true in and of themselves. According to Stump, "the role of maximal propositions in argumentation is to ensure the truth of a conclusion by ensuring the truth of its premises either directly or indirectly."[45] These propositions would be used in constructing arguments through the Differentia, which is the second part of Boethius' theory. This is "the genus of the intermediate in the argument."[46] So maximal propositions allow room for an argument to be founded in some sense of logic while differentia are critical for the demonstration and construction of arguments.
Boethius' definition of "differentiae" is that they are "the Topics of arguments ... The Topics which are the Differentiae of [maximal] propositions are more universal than those propositions, just as rationality is more universal than man."[47] This is the second part of Boethius' unique contribution to the field of rhetoric. Differentia operate under maximal propositions to "be of use in finding maximal propositions as well as intermediate terms," or the premises that follow maximal propositions.[48]
Though Boethius is drawing from Aristotle's Topics, Differentiae are not the same as Topics in some ways. Boethius arranges differentiae through statements, instead of generalized groups as Aristotle does. Stump articulates the difference. They are "expressed as words or phrases whose expansion into appropriate propositions is neither intended nor readily conceivable", unlike Aristotle's clearly defined four groups of Topics. Aristotle had hundreds of topics organized into those four groups, whereas Boethius has twenty-eight "Topics" that are "highly ordered among themselves."[49] This distinction is necessary to understand Boethius as separate from past rhetorical theories.
Maximal propositions and Differentiae belong not only to rhetoric, but also to dialectic. Boethius defines dialectic through an analysis of "thesis" and hypothetical propositions. He claims that "[t]here are two kinds of questions. One is that called, 'thesis' by the [Greek] dialecticians. This is the kind of question which asks about and discusses things stripped of relation to other circumstances; it is the sort of question dialecticians most frequently dispute about—for example, 'Is pleasure the greatest good?' [or] 'Should one marry?'."[50] Dialectic has "dialectical topics" as well as "dialectical-rhetorical topics", all of which are still discussed in De Topicis Differentiis.[43] Dialectic, especially in Book I, comprises a major component of Boethius' discussion on Topics.
Boethius planned to completely translate Plato's Dialogues, but there is no known surviving translation, if it was actually ever begun.[51]
De arithmetica[edit]
Boethius chose to pass on the great Greco-Roman culture to future generations by writing manuals on music, astronomy, geometry and arithmetic.[10]
Several of Boethius' writings, which were hugely influential during the Middle Ages, drew on the thinking of Porphyry and Iamblichus.[52] Boethius wrote a commentary on the Isagoge by Porphyry,[53] which highlighted the existence of the problem of universals: whether these concepts are subsistent entities which would exist whether anyone thought of them, or whether they only exist as ideas. This topic concerning the ontological nature of universal ideas was one of the most vocal controversies in medieval philosophy.
Besides these advanced philosophical works, Boethius is also reported to have translated important Greek texts on the topics of the quadrivium [51] His loose translation of Nicomachus's treatise on arithmetic (De institutione arithmetica libri duo) and his textbook on music (De institutione musica libri quinque, unfinished) contributed to medieval education.[53] De arithmetica begins with modular arithmetic, such as even and odd, evenly even, evenly odd, and oddly even. He then turns to unpredicted complexity by categorizing numbers and parts of numbers.[54] His translations of Euclid on geometry and Ptolemy on astronomy,[55] if they were completed, no longer survive. Boethius made Latin translations of Aristotle's De interpretatione and Categories with commentaries.[14] In his article The Ancient Classics in the Mediaeval Libraries, James Stuart Beddie cites Boethius as the reason Aristotle's works were popular in the Middle Ages, as Boethius preserved many of the philosopher's works.[56]
De institutione musica[edit]
Boethius' De institutione musica was one of the first musical works to be printed in Venice between the years of 1491 and 1492. It was written toward the beginning of the sixth century and helped medieval authors during the ninth century understand Greek music.[57] Like his Greek predecessors, Boethius believed that arithmetic and music were intertwined, and helped to mutually reinforce the understanding of each, and together exemplified the fundamental principles of order and harmony in the understanding of the universe as it was known during his time.[58]
In "De Musica", Boethius introduced the threefold classification of music:[59]
Musica mundana – music of the spheres/world; this "music" was not actually audible and was to be understood rather than heard
Musica humana – harmony of human body and spiritual harmony
Musica instrumentalis – instrumental music
  Boethius, Arithmetica Geometrica Musica (1492 first printed edition, from Hans Adler Collection)
In De musica I.2, Boethius describes 'musica instrumentis' as music produced by something under tension (e.g., strings), by wind (e.g., aulos), by water, or by percussion (e.g., cymbals). Boethius himself doesn't use the term 'instrumentalis', which was used by Adalbold II of Utrecht (975–1026) in his Epistola cum tractatu.[full citation needed]  The term is much more common in the 13th century and later.[citation needed] It is also in these later texts that musica instrumentalis is firmly associated with audible music in general, including vocal music. Scholars have traditionally assumed that Boethius also made this connection, possibly under the header of wind instruments ("administratur ... aut spiritu ut tibiis"[c] [60]), but Boethius himself never writes about "instrumentalis" as separate from "instrumentis" explicitly in his very brief description.
In one of his works within De institutione musica, Boethius said that "music is so naturally united with us that we cannot be free from it even if we so desired."[61]
During the Middle Ages, Boethius was connected to several texts that were used to teach liberal arts. Although he did not address the subject of trivium, he did write many treatises explaining the principles of rhetoric, grammar, and logic. During the Middle Ages, his works of these disciplines were commonly used when studying the three elementary arts.[55] The historian R. W. Southern called Boethius "the schoolmaster of medieval Europe."[62]
An 1872 German translation of "De Musica" was the magnum opus of Oscar Paul.[63]
Opuscula sacra[edit]
Boethius also wrote Christian theological treatises, which supported Catholicism and condemned Arianism and other heterodox forms of Christianity.[64]
Five theological works are known:[65]
De Trinitate – "The Trinity", where he defends the Council of Chalcedon Trinitarian position, that God is in three persons who have no differences in nature. He argues against the Arian view of the nature of God, which put him at odds with the faith of the Arian King of Italy.
Utrum Pater et filius et Spiritus Sanctus de divinitate substantialiter praedicentur – "Whether Father, Son and Holy Spirit are Substantially Predicated of the Divinity," a short work where he uses reason and Aristotelian epistemology to argue that the Catholic views of the nature of God are correct.[66]
Quomodo substantiae
De fide catholica – "On the Catholic Faith"
Contra Eutychen et Nestorium – "Against Eutyches and Nestorius," from around 513, which dates it as the earliest of his theological works. Eutyches and Nestorius were contemporaries from the early to mid-5th century who held divergent Christological theologies. Boethius argues for a middle ground in conformity with Roman Catholic faith.
His theological works played an important part during the Middle Ages in philosophical thought, including the fields of logic, ontology, and metaphysics.[67]
History of reception[edit]
Part of a series onScholasticism
Scholastic schools
Thomism
Scotism
Occamism
Major scholastic works
Summa Theologica
Cur Deus Homo
Summa Grammatica
Summa logicae
Opus Oxoniense
Libri Quattuor Sententiarum
Precursors
Augustine of Hippo
Boethius
Pope Gregory I
Alcuin of York
John Scotus Eriugena
People
Thomas Aquinas ("Doctor Angelicus")
Duns Scotus ("Doctor Subtilis")
William of Ockham ("Doctor Invincibilis")
Francisco Suárez ("Doctor Eximius")
Averroes ("The Commentator")
Albertus Magnus ("Doctor Universalis")
Peter Lombard ("The Master")
Bonaventure ("Doctor Seraphicus")
Anselm of Canterbury ("Doctor Marianus")
Peter Abelard ("Doctor Scholasticus")
Related
Philosophy
Aristotelianism
Dominican Order
Franciscan Order
Catholic theology
Islamic philosophy
Empiricism
Neoplatonism
Neo-Thomism
Problem of universals
 Philosophy portal
 Catholicism portalvte
Lorenzo Valla described Boethius as the last of the Romans and the first of the scholastic philosophers.[12] Despite the use of his mathematical texts in the early universities, it is his final work, the Consolation of Philosophy, that assured his legacy in the Middle Ages and beyond. This work is cast as a dialogue between Boethius himself, at first bitter and despairing over his imprisonment, and the spirit of philosophy, depicted as a woman of wisdom and compassion. "Alternately composed in prose and verse,[52] the Consolation teaches acceptance of hardship in a spirit of philosophical detachment from misfortune".[68]
Parts of the work are reminiscent of the Socratic method of Plato's dialogues, as the spirit of philosophy questions Boethius and challenges his emotional reactions to adversity. The work was translated into Old English by King Alfred, although Alfred's authorship of this Old English translation has recently been questioned,[citation needed] and into later English by Chaucer and Queen Elizabeth.[64] Many manuscripts survive and it was extensively edited, translated and printed throughout Europe from the 14th century onwards.[69] Many commentaries on it were compiled, and it has been one of the most influential books in European culture. No complete bibliography has ever been assembled, but it would run into thousands of items.[68][failed verification]
"The Boethian Wheel" is a model for Boethius' belief that history is a wheel,[70] a metaphor that Boethius uses frequently in the Consolation; it remained very popular throughout the Middle Ages, and is still often seen today. As the wheel turns, those who have power and wealth will turn to dust; men may rise from poverty and hunger to greatness, while those who are great may fall with the turn of the wheel. It was represented in the Middle Ages in many relics of art depicting the rise and fall of man. Descriptions of "The Boethian Wheel" can be found in the literature of the Middle Ages from the Romance of the Rose to Chaucer.[71]
De topicis differentiis was the basis for one of the first works of logic in a western European vernacular, a selection of excerpts translated into Old French by John of Antioch in 1282.[72]
Veneration[edit]
  The Tomb of Boethius in San Pietro in Ciel d'Oro, Pavia.
Boethius is recognized as a martyr for the Catholic faith by the Roman Martyrology, though to Watkins "his status as martyr is dubious".[73] His cult is held in Pavia, where Boethius's status as a saint was confirmed in 1883, and in the Church of Santa Maria in Portico in Rome. His feast day is 23 October.[74][73][75]  In the current Martyrologium Romanum, his feast is still restricted to that diocese.[76] Pope Benedict XVI explained the relevance of Boethius to modern day Christians by linking his teachings to an understanding of Providence.[10] He is also venerated in the Eastern Orthodox Church.[77]
In popular culture[edit]
In the novel A Confederacy of Dunces by John Kennedy Toole, Boethius is the favorite philosopher of main character Ignatius J. Reilly. "The Boethian Wheel" is a theme throughout the book, which won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1981.[78]
Peter Glassgold translated Boethius's poems on the consolation of philosophy "out of the original Latin into a diverse historical Englishings diligently collaged," (Sun and Moon Press, 1994).[79]
C.S. Lewis references Boethius in chapter 27 of the Screwtape Letters. [80]
Boethius also appears in the 2002 film "24 Hour Party People" where he is played by Christopher Eccleston. As Tony Wilson passes by, Boethius (disguised as a beggar) says, "It's my belief that history is a wheel. "Inconstancy is my very essence" -says the wheel- "Rise up on my spokes if you like, but don't complain when you are cast back down into the depths. Good times pass away, but then so do the bad. Mutability is our tragedy, but it is also our hope. The worst of times, like the best, are always passing away."
See also[edit]
De Fide Catolica
Notes[edit]
^ The name Anicius demonstrated his connection with a noble family of the Lower Empire, while Manlius claims lineage from the Manlii Torquati of the Republic. The name Severinus was given to him in honour of Severinus of Noricum.[3]
^ In English, the o and e in Boethius are pronounced separately: /boʊˈiːθiəs/. It is hence traditionally written with a diæresis, viz. "Boëthius", a spelling which has been disappearing due to the limitations of typewriters.
^ "Haec vero administratur aut intentione ut nervis, aut spiritu ut tibiis, vel his, quae ad aquam moventur, aut percussione quadam, ut in his, quae in concava quaedam aerea feriuntur, atque inde diversi efficiuntur soni." Translated: "This, however, is operated by the motion of a string, or the wind of a pipe, or to those, which are moved by the water, or the beat of time, as in the following, which is striking a kind of brass hollow, and in the other are made of a corresponding sound."
References[edit]
^ Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
^ A.D. Smith, Anselm's Other Argument, Harvard University Press, 2014, p. 66.
^ a b c Hodgkin, Thomas (2001), Italy and Her Invaders, London: Adamant Media Corporation.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}.
^ a b "Boethius", The Online Library of Liberty, retrieved 23 October 2017.
^ a b Noel Harold Kaylor; Philip Edward Phillips (2012), A Companion to Boethius in the Middle Ages, Brill, pp. 1–, ISBN 978-90-04-18354-4, retrieved 19 January 2013
^ Heather, P. J. (Peter J.) (2006). The fall of the Roman Empire : a new history of Rome and the Barbarians. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 244–245. ISBN 9780199978618. OCLC 806039879.
^ Boethius (1969), De consolatione philosophiae, translated by Watts, V.E., Harmonsworth: Penguin, 2.3, p. 59.
^ Noel Harold Kaylor; Philip Edward Phillips (2012), A Companion to Boethius in the Middle Ages, Brill, pp. 4–, ISBN 978-90-04-18354-4, retrieved 19 January 2013
^ Moorhead (2009), "Boethius' life and the world of late antique philosophy",  in Marenbon, John (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to Boethius, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p. 29.
^ a b c Pope Benedict XVI (12 March 2008), Boethius and Cassiodorus, archived from the original on 28 December 2008, retrieved 4 November 2009.
^ Cassiodorus (1992), Variae, translated by Barnish, S.J.B., Liverpool: University Press, I.10, pp. 12–14; I.45, 20–23; II.40, 38–43.
^ a b Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus. The Theological Tractates and The Consolation of Philosophy. Translated by H. F. Steward and E. K. Rand. Cambridge: The Project Gutenberg, 2004.
^ De consolatione philosophiae, 2.3; translated by Watts, p. 60
^ a b c "Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius", MacTutor History of Mathematicas archive, U of St Andrews, 2000, retrieved 4 November 2009.
^ Boethius (2007), The Theological Tractates and The Consolation of Philosophy, Digireads.com, pp. 5–, ISBN 978-1-4209-2975-1, retrieved 22 January 2013
^ Anonymous Valesianus, 14.85; text and English translation of this document is in J. C. Rolfe (trans.), Ammianus Marcellinus (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1972), vol. 3 pp. 562ff
^ History of the Wars, 5.1.34. Text and translation in H. B. Dewing, Procopius (London: Heinemann, 1968), vol. 3 p. 12f
^ Richards, The Popes and the Papacy in the Early Middle Ages (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1979), p. 114
^ De consolatione I.4.3; translated by V. E. Watts, Boethius: The consolation of philosophy (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1969), p. 42
^ Cassiodorus, Variae, V.40, 41
^ Bury, J. B., History of the Later Roman Empire, p.158, Macmillan &amp; Co., Ltd. 1923
^ Richards, Popes and the Papacy, p. 119
^ Fried, Johannes (2015). The Middle Ages (third ed.). Cambridge, MA and London: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-674-05562-9.
^ Lindberg, David C. (1980), Science in the Middle Ages, University of Chicago Press, pp. 10–, ISBN 978-0-226-48233-0, retrieved 12 January 2013
^ Walsh, P.G. (2000), "Introduction", The Consolation of Philosophy, Oxford: Oxford U. Press, p. xxvii.
^ Noel Harold Kaylor; Philip Edward Phillips (2012), A Companion to Boethius in the Middle Ages, Brill, pp. 14–, ISBN 978-90-04-18354-4, retrieved 19 January 2013
^ Phillips, Philip Edward (2012), "Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius: A Chronology and Selected Annotated Bibliography",  in Noel Harold Kaylor Jr.; Philip Edward Phillips (eds.), A Companion to Boethius in the Middle Ages, Leiden: Brill, pp. 551–589.
^ Folkerts, Menso, ed. (1970), Boethius' Geometrie II. Ein mathematisches Lehrbuch des Mittelalters, Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner
^ a b c d Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus. Consolation of Philosophy. Translated by Joel Relihan. Norton: Hackett Publishing Company, 2001.
^ Spade, Paul Vincent (15 March 2016), "Medieval Philosophy", Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, retrieved 23 October 2017
^ Thomas Aquinas; Frederick Christian Bauerschmidt (2005), Holy Teaching: Introducing the Summa Theologiae of St. Thomas Aquinas, Brazos Press, pp. 14–, ISBN 978-1-58743-035-0, retrieved 22 March 2013
^ Rubenstein, Richard E. (2004). Aristotle's Children. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. pp. 62–. ISBN 978-0-547-35097-4. Retrieved 22 March 2013.
^ Stump, Eleonore (1988), Introduction, In Ciceronis Topica, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 3, ISBN 978-0801489341
^ Stump, Eleanor (1988), Introduction, In Ciceronis Topica, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 22, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ a b Boethius (1988), In Ciceronis Topica, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University, p. 25
^ Stump, Eleanor (1988), Introduction, In Ciceronis Topica, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 26, ISBN 978-0801489341
^ Boethius. In Ciceronis Topica. 34
^ Boethius. In Ciceronis Topica. 35
^ Boethius (1978), De topicis differentiis, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University Press, p. 29, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Boethius (1978), De topicis differentiis, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University Press, p. 31, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), Introduction, De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 6, ISBN 9780801489334
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), Introduction, De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, pp. 7, 9–8, ISBN 978-0801489334.
^ a b Stump, Eleonore (1978), "Dialectic and Boethius's De topicis differentiis", De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 180, ISBN 978-0801489334.
^ Boethius (1978), De topicis differentiis, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University Press, p. 33, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), "Dialectic and Boethius's De topicis differentiis", De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 181, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), "Dialectic and Boethius's De topicis differentiis", De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 198, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Boethius (1978), De topicis differentiis, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University Press, p. 48, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), "Dialectic and Boethius's De topicis differentiis", De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 204, ISBN 978-0801489334.
^ Stump, Eleonore (1978), "Dialectic and Boethius's De topicis differentiis", De topicis differentiis, by Boethius, Cornell University Press, p. 205, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ Boethius (1978), De topicis differentiis, translated by Stump, Eleonore, Cornell University Press, p. 35, ISBN 978-0801489334
^ a b Cassiodorus (1992), Variae, translated by Barnish, S.J.B., Liverpool: University Press, I.45.4.
^ a b Marenbon, John (2016), "Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius", Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, retrieved 23 October 2017
^ a b Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company..
^ Schrader, Dorothy V (1968), "De Arithmetica, Book I, of Boethius", Mathematics Teacher, 61: 615–28.
^ a b Masi, Michael (1979), "The Liberal Arts and Gerardus Ruffus' Commentary on the Boethian De Arithmetica", The Sixteenth Century Journal, 10 (2): 24, doi:10.2307/2539405, JSTOR 2539405.
^ Beddie, James Stuart (1930), "The Ancient Classics in the Mediaeval Libraries", Speculum, 5 (1): 3–20, doi:10.2307/2846353, JSTOR 2846353, p. 3
^ Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus (1989),  Palisca, Claude V. (ed.), Fundamentals of Music, translated by Bower, Calvin M., New Haven: Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0300039436.
^ Grout, Donald (1980). A History of Western Music (3rd ed.). New York: W.W. Norton &amp; Company. p. 24. ISBN 978-0393951363.
^ Bower, Calvin M. (2006), "The transmission of ancient music theory into the Middle Ages",  in Christensen, Thomas (ed.), The Cambridge History of Western Music Theory, Cambridge University Press, pp. 136–167, ISBN 978-0521686983, p. 146.
^ Boethius 1867, p. 189. sfn error: multiple targets (2×): CITEREFBoethius1867 (help)
^ Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus (1989),  Palisca, Claude V. (ed.), Fundamentals of Music, translated by Bower, Calvin M., New Haven: Yale University Press, p. 8, ISBN 978-0300039436.
^ Herman, Arthur (2013). The Cave and the Light. Random House. ISBN 978-0553807301.
^ Paul, Oscar (1872), Boetius und die griechische Harmonik (in German), Leipzig: F.E.C. Leuckart.
^ a b Cooper, W.V. (1902), "Editorial Note", Consolation of Philosophy, by Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus, translated by W.V. Cooper, London: J.M. Dent and Company.
^ Noel Harold Kaylor; Philip Edward Phillips (2012), A Companion to Boethius in the Middle Ages, Brill, pp. 15–, ISBN 978-90-04-18354-4, retrieved 19 January 2013
^ Speer, Andreas (2011), "The Division of Metaphysical Discourses: Boethius, Thomas Aquinas, and Meister Eckhart",  in Emery, Kent; Friedman, Russell; Speer, Andreas (eds.), Philosophy and Theology in the Long Middle Ages: A Tribute to Stephen F. Brown, Leiden: Brill, pp. 91–116, ISBN 978-90-04-16942-5, p. 95
^ Bradshaw, David (2009), "The Opuscula sacra: Boethius and theology",  in Marenbon, John (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to Boethius, pp. 105–128, doi:10.1017/CCOL9780521872669.006, ISBN 978-1139002493
^ a b James, H.R. (2007), Preface, Consolation of Philosophy, by Boethius, translated by H.R. James, Adelaide: The University of Adelaide.
^ Dwyer, Richard A. (1976), Boethian Fictions: Narratives in the Medieval French Versions of the Consolatio Philosophiae, Medieval Academy of America.
^ Boethius (1999), Consolation of Philosophy, translated by Watts, Victor (Rev ed.), Penguin, p. 24, n. 1.
^ Carroll-Clark, Susan (1994), "The Wheel of Fortune", The Middle Ages.net.
^ Jonathan Rubin (2018), "John of Antioch and the Perceptions of Language and Translation in Thirteenth-Century Acre",  in John France (ed.), Acre and Its Falls: Studies in the History of a Crusader City, Brill, p. 93.
^ a b Watkins, Basil (2016). The Book of Saints. St. Augustine's Abbey of Ramsgate, England (8th ed.). London: Bloomsbury. p. 108. ISBN 978-0567664150. OCLC 908373623.
^ Farmer, David Hugh (2011). The Oxford Dictionary of Saints (5th ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 53. ISBN 978-0199596607. OCLC 726871260.
^ Martirologio (in Italian), translated by Stefano Calvi, archived from the original on 7 December 2010.
^ Martyrologium Romanum (2nd ed.). Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana. 2004. p. 586. ISBN 978-8820972103.
^ Latin Saints of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Rome
^ Miller, Karl (1999-03-05). "An American tragedy. A lifetime of rejection broke John Kennedy Toole. But his aged mother believed in his talent, found a publisher for his novel and rescued his memory from oblivion". www.newstatesman.com. Retrieved 2018-06-09.
^ Glassgold, Peter. "Beothius: The Poems from on the Consolation of Philosophy Translated out of the original Latin into diverse historical Englishings diligently collaged". Amazon. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
^ Lewis, Clive (1942). The Screwtape Letters. Faded Page. p. 57. Retrieved 28 April 2019.
Works available online[edit]
  Dialectica, 1547
James, H.R. (translator) [1897] (2007), The Consolation of Philosophy of Boethius, The University of Adelaide: eBooks @ Adelaide, archived from the original on 2007-04-27.
Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus (1867). "De institutione arithmetica libri duo".  In Gottfried Friedlein (ed.). Anicii Manlii Torquati Severini Boetii De institutione arithmetica libri duo: De institutione musica libri quinque. Accedit geometria quae fertur Boetii (in Latin). in aedibus B.G. Teubneri. pp. 1–173. Retrieved 2008-08-03.
Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus (1867). "De institutione musica libri quinque".  In Gottfried Friedlein (ed.). Anicii Manlii Torquati Severini Boetii De institutione arithmetica libri duo: De institutione musica libri quinque. Accedit geometria quae fertur Boetii (in Latin). in aedibus B.G. Teubneri. pp. 177–371. Retrieved 2015-10-08.
Bibliography[edit]
Attwater, Donald; Catherine Rachel John (1995), The Penguin Dictionary of Saints, London: Penguin Books, ISBN 978-0-14-051312-7, OCLC 34361179.
Baird, Forrest E.; Walter Kaufmann (2008), From Plato to Derrida, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall, ISBN 978-0-13-158591-1.
Boethius, Anicius Manlius Severinus (1926), trans., H.F. Stewart, E.K. Rand, and "I.T.". The Theological Tractates and The Consolation of Philosophy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard, Loeb Classical Library, parallel text.
Chadwick, Henry (1981), Boethius, the Consolations of Music, Logic, Theology, and Philosophy, Oxford: Clarendon Press, ISBN 978-0-19-826549-8, OCLC 8533668.
Colish, Marcia L. (2002), Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition, 400–1400, New Haven: Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0-300-07852-7, OCLC 185694056.
Magee, John (1989), Boethius on Signification and Mind, Leiden: Brill, ISBN 978-90-04-09096-5.
Marenbon, John (2004), Boethius, Oxford: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-513407-0, OCLC 186379876.
Marenbon, John (2009), The Cambridge Companion to Boethius, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-87266-9.
Papahagi, Adrian (2010). Boethiana Mediaevalia – A Collection of Studies on the Early Medieval Fortune of Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy. Bucharest: Zeta Books. ISBN 978-973-1997-79-7.
Suto, Taki (2011), Boethius on Mind, Grammar and Logic. A Study of Boethius' Commentaries on Peri Hermeneias, Cambridge: Brill, ISBN 978-90-04-21418-7.
Westfall, Joseph (2008), "Boethius: Kierkegaard and The Consolation",  in Stewart, Jon (ed.), Kierkegaard and the Patristic and Medieval Traditions, Ashgate, pp. 207–222, ISBN 978-0-7546-6391-1.
Library resources about  Boethius 
Online books
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
By Boethius
Online books
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
External links[edit]
Works[edit]
Wikisource has original works written by or about:Boethius
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Boethius
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Anicius Manlius Torquatus Severinus Boethius.
Latin Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Anicius Manlius Torquatus Severinus Boethius 
Works by Boethius at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Boethius at Internet Archive
Works by Boethius at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
{en} De Trinitate (On the Holy Trinity) – Boethius, Erik Kenyon (trans.)
{en} Theological Tractates; Christian Classics Ethereal Library
A 10th-century manuscript of Institutio Arithmetica is available online from Lund University, Sweden
The Geoffrey Freudlin 1885 edition of the Arithmetica, from the Cornell Library Historical Mathematics Monographs
Online Galleries, History of Science Collections, University of Oklahoma Libraries High resolution images of works by Boethius in .jpg and .tiff format.
Codices Boethiani: A Conspectus of Manuscripts of the Work of Boethius
Works by Boethius at Perseus Digital Library
MS 1083/30 Regiment of princes; Consolation of philosophy at OPenn
MS 484/15 Commentum super libro Porphyrii Isagoge; De decim predicamentis at OPenn
On Boethius' life and works[edit]
Blessed Severinus Boethius at Patron Saints Index
Blackwood, Stephen. The Meters of Boethius: Rhythmic Therapy in the Consolation of Philosophy.
Blackwood, Stephen (2015). The Consolation of Boethius as Poetic Liturgy. Oxford Early Christian Studies. Oxford University Press. p. 398. ISBN 978-0-19-871831-4.
O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Boethius", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews.
Phillips, Philip Edward. Boethius: A Selected Bibliography for Students
Boethius at The Online Library of Liberty
On Boethius and Cassiodorus – Pope Benedict XVI
On Boethius' logic and philosophy[edit]
Marenbon, John. "Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius".  In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
The Philosophical Works of Boethius. Editions and Translations
Boethius' Logic and Metaphysics. An Annotated Bibliography
Preceded byFlavius Inportunus (alone)
 Consul of the Roman Empire510
Succeeded byArcadius Placidus Magnus Felix, Flavius Secundinus
vteAncient Greek and Hellenistic mathematics (Euclidean geometry)Mathematicians(timeline)
Anaxagoras
Anthemius
Archytas
Aristaeus the Elder
Aristarchus
Apollonius
Archimedes
Autolycus
Bion
Bryson
Callippus
Carpus
Chrysippus
Cleomedes
Conon
Ctesibius
Democritus
Dicaearchus
Diocles
Diophantus
Dinostratus
Dionysodorus
Domninus
Eratosthenes
Eudemus
Euclid
Eudoxus
Eutocius
Geminus
Heron
Hipparchus
Hippasus
Hippias
Hippocrates
Hypatia
Hypsicles
Isidore of Miletus
Leon
Marinus
Menaechmus
Menelaus
Metrodorus
Nicomachus
Nicomedes
Nicoteles
Oenopides
Pappus
Perseus
Philolaus
Philon
Philonides
Porphyry
Posidonius
Proclus
Ptolemy
Pythagoras
Serenus 
Simplicius
Sosigenes
Sporus
Thales
Theaetetus
Theano
Theodorus
Theodosius
Theon of Alexandria
Theon of Smyrna
Thymaridas
Xenocrates
Zeno of Elea
Zeno of Sidon
Zenodorus
Treatises
Almagest
Archimedes Palimpsest
Arithmetica
Conics (Apollonius)
Catoptrics
Data (Euclid)
Elements (Euclid)
Measurement of a Circle
On Conoids and Spheroids
On the Sizes and Distances (Aristarchus)
On Sizes and Distances (Hipparchus)
On the Moving Sphere (Autolycus)
Euclid's Optics
On Spirals
On the Sphere and Cylinder
Ostomachion
Planisphaerium
Sphaerics
The Quadrature of the Parabola
The Sand Reckoner
Problems
Angle trisection
Doubling the cube
Squaring the circle
Problem of Apollonius
Concepts/Definitions
Circles of Apollonius
Apollonian circles
Apollonian gasket
Circumscribed circle
Commensurability
Diophantine equation
Doctrine of proportionality
Golden ratio
Greek numerals
Incircle and excircles of a triangle
Method of exhaustion
Parallel postulate
Platonic solid
Lune of Hippocrates
Quadratrix of Hippias
Regular polygon
Straightedge and compass construction
Triangle center
ResultsIn Elements
Angle bisector theorem
Exterior angle theorem
Euclidean algorithm
Euclid's theorem
Geometric mean theorem
Greek geometric algebra
Hinge theorem
Inscribed angle theorem
Intercept theorem
Pons asinorum
Pythagorean theorem
Thales's theorem
Theorem of the gnomon
Apollonius
Apollonius's theorem
Other
Aristarchus's inequality
Crossbar theorem
Heron's formula
Irrational numbers
Menelaus's theorem
Pappus's area theorem
Ptolemy's inequality
Ptolemy's table of chords
Ptolemy's theorem
Spiral of Theodorus
Centers
Cyrene
Library of Alexandria
Platonic Academy
Other
Ancient Greek astronomy
Greek numerals
Latin translations of the 12th century
Neusis construction
vtePlatonistsAcademicsOld
Plato
Aristotle
Eudoxus
Philip of Opus
Aristonymus
Coriscus and Erastus of Scepsis
Demetrius of Amphipolis
Euaeon of Lampsacus
Heraclides and Python of Aenus
Hestiaeus of Perinthus
Lastheneia of Mantinea
Timolaus of Cyzicus
Speusippus
Axiothea of Phlius
Heraclides Ponticus
Menedemus of Pyrrha
Xenocrates
Crantor
Polemon
Crates of Athens
SkepticsMiddle
Arcesilaus
Diocles of Cnidus
Lacydes
Telecles and Evander
Hegesinus
New
Carneades
Hagnon of Tarsus
Metrodorus of Stratonicea
Clitomachus
Charmadas
Aeschines of Neapolis
Philo of Larissa
Cicero
Dio of Alexandria
Middle Platonists
Antiochus
Philo of Alexandria
Plutarch
Justin Martyr
Gaius
Albinus
Alcinous
Apuleius
Atticus
Maximus of Tyre
Numenius of Apamea
Longinus
Clement of Alexandria
Origen the Pagan
Calcidius
NeoplatonistsAncient
Ammonius Saccas
Plotinus
Disciples
Origen
Amelius
Porphyry
Iamblichus
Sopater
Eustathius of Cappadocia
Sosipatra
Aedesius
Dexippus
Chrysanthius
Theodorus of Asine
Julian
Sallustius
Maximus of Ephesus
Eusebius of Myndus
Priscus of Epirus
Antoninus
Gregory of Nyssa
Hypatia
Augustine
Macrobius
Academy
Plutarch of Athens
Asclepigenia
Hierocles
Syrianus
Hermias
Aedesia
Proclus
Ammonius Hermiae
Asclepiodotus
Hegias
Zenodotus
Marinus
Agapius
Isidore
Damascius
Simplicius
Priscian
Medieval
Boethius
John Philoponus
Olympiodorus
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
John Scotus Eriugena
Islamic Golden Age
Al-Farabi
Anselm
Peter Abelard
Chartres
Bernard
Gilbert
Thierry
Henry of Ghent
Bonaventure
Theodoric of Freiberg
Meister Eckhart
Berthold of Moosburg
Paul of Venice
ModernRenaissanceFlorentine Academy
Plethon
Marsilio Ficino
Cristoforo Landino
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
Cambridge
Ralph Cudworth
Henry More
Anne Conway
Petrus Ramus
Giordano Bruno
Blaise Pascal
Emanuel Swedenborg
German idealists
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
Christian Wolff
Moses Mendelssohn
Immanuel Kant
Johann Gottlieb Fichte
Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling
Arthur Schopenhauer
G. W. F. Hegel
Hermann Lotze
Otto Weininger
Thomas Taylor
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Josiah Royce
Søren Kierkegaard
Henri Bergson
Aleksei LosevContemporary
Bernard Bolzano
Analytic
Gottlob Frege
G. E. Moore
Kurt Gödel
Alonzo Church
Roderick Chisholm
Michael Dummett
W. V. O. Quine
David Kaplan
Saul Kripke
Alvin Plantinga
Peter van Inwagen
Nicholas Wolterstorff
Crispin Wright
Edward N. Zalta
Continental
Edmund Husserl
Roman Ingarden
Leo Strauss
Miscellaneous
Philip K. Dick
Joseph Ratzinger
Categories
►  Platonism
vteMedieval philosophersIslamicEarly
Al-Jahiz
Alkindus
Ibn al-Rawandi
Al-Razi (Rhazes)
Al-Farabi (Alpharabius)
Ibn Masarra
Al Amiri
Ebn Meskavayh 
Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen)
Abu Rayhan Biruni
"Brethren of Purity"
High
Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna)
Ibn Hazm
Al-Ghazali (Algazel)
Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī
Ibn Bajjah (Avempace)
Ayn al-Quzat Hamadani 
Ibn Tufail
Ibn Rushd (Averroes)
Late
Ibn Sab'in
Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi
Fakhr ad-Din ar-Razi
Rashid al-Din
Ibn Arabi
Zachariah Kazwin
Abd-el-latif
Athīr al-Dīn al-Abharī
Nasir al-Din al-Tusi
Ibn al-Nafis
Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi
Ibn Taymiyyah
Ibn Khaldun
JewishMedieval
Isaac Israeli ben Solomon
Saadia Gaon
Solomon ibn Gabirol
Judah Halevi
Abraham ibn Daud
Maimonides
Nachmanides
Gersonides
Hasdai Crescas
Joseph Albo
ChristianEarly
"Church Fathers"
Augustine of Hippo
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Isidore of Seville
Johannes Scotus Eriugena
Alcuin
11–12thcentury
"Scholasticism"
Anselm of Canterbury
Peter Abelard
Anselm of Laon
Hugh of Saint Victor
Richard of Saint Victor
Roscelin
Peter Lombard
Alexander of Hales
Bernard of Chartres
Dominicus Gundissalinus
Gilbert de la Porrée
Alain de Lille
13–14thcentury
Robert Grosseteste
Albertus Magnus
Bonaventure
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Roger Bacon
John Peckham
Ramon Llull
Petrus Aureolus
Petrus Peregrinus de Maricourt
Durandus
Giles of Rome
Godfrey of Fontaines
Duns Scotus
William of Ockham
Late
Jean Buridan
Nicole Oresme
Albert of Saxony
Francesc Eiximenis
Vincent Ferrer
Paul of Venice
Lambertus de Monte
John Hennon
See also Renaissance philosophy
vteCatholic philosophyEthics
Cardinal virtues
Divine command
Just price
Just war
Probabilism
Natural law
Personalism
Seven virtues
Social teaching
Theological virtues
Virtue ethics
SchoolsMedieval
Augustinianism
Scholasticism
Thomism
Scotism
Occamism
Modern
Salamanca
Christian humanism
Cartesianism
Molinism
Neo-scholasticism
Analytical Thomism
Universals
Augustinian realism
Nominalism
Conceptualism
Moderate realism
Scotistic realism
Other
Theological intellectualism
Theological voluntarism
Foundationalism
Philosophers
Clement
Augustine
Boethius
Dionysius
Isidore
Eriugena
Alcuin
Anselm
Abelard
Lombard
Albertus
Bonaventure
Aquinas
Llull
Scotus
Occam
Ficino
Pico
Erasmus
Cusa
Luis
More
Suárez
Descartes
Pierre
Montaigne
Pascal
Krasicki
Kołłątaj
Staszic
Newman
Scheler
Chesterton
Maritain
Stein
Mortimer
Rahner
Anscombe
MacIntyre
Wojtyla
Ratzinger
Concepts
Actus purus
Actus Essendi
Actus primus
Quinque viae
Theodicy
Augustinian
Irenaean
Formal distinction
Univocity
Head of a pin
Occam's razor
Augustinian values
Principle of double effect
Seven deadly sins
Quiddity
Cardinal virtues
Stratification of emotional life
Disputation
Evil demon
Aevum
Haecceity
Cartesian dualism
Divine illumination
Peripatetic axiom
Memento mori
Ressentiment
Rota Fortunae
Double truth
Ontological argument
Utopia
Trademark argument
Pascal's wager
Dehellenization
Differentia
Homo unius libri
Cogito, ergo sum
Infused righteousness
Related
Catholic theology
Platonism
Aristotelianism
Neoplatonism
Islamic philosophy
Doctor of the Church
Renaissance
Rationalism
Empiricism
Phenomenology
 Catholicism portal
 Philosophy portal
vtePhilosophy of religionConcepts in religion
Afterlife
Euthyphro dilemma
Faith
Intelligent design
Miracle
Problem of evil
Religious belief
Soul
Spirit
Theodicy
Theological veto
Conceptions of God
Aristotelian view
Brahman
Demiurge
Divine simplicity
Egoism
Holy Spirit
Misotheism
Pandeism
Personal god
Process theology
Supreme Being
Unmoved mover
God in
Abrahamic religions
Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Jainism
Judaism
Mormonism
Sikhism
Baháʼí Faith
Wicca
Existence of GodFor
Beauty
Christological
Consciousness
Cosmological
Kalam
Contingency
Degree
Desire
Experience
Fine-tuning of the universe
Love
Miracles
Morality
Necessary existent
Ontological
Pascal's wager
Proper basis
Reason
Teleological
Natural law
Watchmaker analogy
Transcendental
Against
747 gambit
Atheist's Wager
Evil
Free will
Hell
Inconsistent revelations
Nonbelief
Noncognitivism
Occam's razor
Omnipotence
Poor design
Russell's teapot
Theology
Acosmism
Agnosticism
Animism
Antireligion
Atheism
Creationism
Dharmism
Deism
Demonology
Divine command theory
Dualism
Esotericism
Exclusivism
Existentialism
Christian
Agnostic
Atheistic
Feminist theology
Thealogy
Womanist theology
Fideism
Fundamentalism
Gnosticism
Henotheism
Humanism
Religious
Secular
Christian
Inclusivism
Theories about religions
Monism
Monotheism
Mysticism
Naturalism
Metaphysical
Religious
Humanistic
New Age
Nondualism
Nontheism
Pandeism
Panentheism
Pantheism
Perennialism
Polytheism
Possibilianism
Process theology
Religious skepticism
Spiritualism
Shamanism
Taoic
Theism
Transcendentalism
more...
Religious language
Eschatological verification
Language game
Logical positivism
Apophatic theology
Verificationism
Problem of evil
Augustinian theodicy
Best of all possible worlds
Euthyphro dilemma
Inconsistent triad
Irenaean theodicy
Natural evil
Theodicy
Philosophersof religion(by date active)Ancient andmedieval
Anselm of Canterbury
Augustine of Hippo
Avicenna
Averroes
Boethius
Erasmus
Gaunilo of Marmoutiers
Pico della Mirandola
Heraclitus
King James VI and I
Marcion of Sinope
Thomas Aquinas
Maimonides
Early modern
Augustin Calmet
René Descartes
Blaise Pascal
Baruch Spinoza
Nicolas Malebranche
Gottfried W Leibniz
William Wollaston
Thomas Chubb
David Hume
Baron d'Holbach
Immanuel Kant
Johann G Herder
18001850
Friedrich Schleiermacher
Karl C F Krause
Georg W F Hegel
William Whewell
Ludwig Feuerbach
Søren Kierkegaard
Karl Marx
Albrecht Ritschl
Afrikan Spir
18801900
Ernst Haeckel
W K Clifford
Friedrich Nietzsche
Harald Høffding
William James
Vladimir Solovyov
Ernst Troeltsch
Rudolf Otto
Lev Shestov
Sergei Bulgakov
Pavel Florensky
Ernst Cassirer
Joseph Maréchal
1920postwar
George Santayana
Bertrand Russell
Martin Buber
René Guénon
Paul Tillich
Karl Barth
Emil Brunner
Rudolf Bultmann
Gabriel Marcel
Reinhold Niebuhr
Charles Hartshorne
Mircea Eliade
Frithjof Schuon
J L Mackie
Walter Kaufmann
Martin Lings
Peter Geach
George I Mavrodes
William Alston
Antony Flew
197019902010
William L Rowe
Dewi Z Phillips
Alvin Plantinga
Anthony Kenny
Nicholas Wolterstorff
Richard Swinburne
Robert Merrihew Adams
Ravi Zacharias
Peter van Inwagen
Daniel Dennett
Loyal Rue
Jean-Luc Marion
William Lane Craig
Ali Akbar Rashad
Alexander Pruss
Related topics
Criticism of religion
Ethics in religion
Exegesis
History of religion
Religion
Religious language
Religious philosophy
Relationship between religion and science
Faith and rationality
more...
 Portal
 Category
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 90083479
BNE: XX859481
BNF: cb14840639m (data)
CANTIC: a10490036
CiNii: DA01010815
GND: 11851282X
ICCU: IT\ICCU\CFIV\082200
ISNI: 0000 0001 2283 4442
LCCN: n79029805
LNB: 000002771
MusicBrainz: febb8d96-761d-4c19-b0c3-cb53d8a2dd52
NDL: 00434105
NKC: jn19981000321
NLA: 35019855
NLG: 77346
NLI: 001790325
NLK: KAC199602875
NSK: 000232260
NTA: 068554923
RERO: 02-A000021134
SELIBR: 224936
SNAC: w6s75djd
SUDOC: 026650045
Trove: 794148
VcBA: 495/44468
VIAF: 100218964
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79029805
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Boethius&amp;oldid=979470413"
		Categories: 477 births524 deaths5th-century Italo-Roman people6th-century Christian saints6th-century Christian theologians6th-century Italo-Roman people6th-century Italian writers6th-century Latin writers6th-century mathematicians6th-century philosophersAncient Roman rhetoriciansAniciiAugustinian philosophersBurials at San Pietro in Ciel d'OroDeaths by blade weaponsExecuted ancient Roman peopleExecuted philosophersExecuted writersGreek–Latin translatorsImperial Roman consulsLast of the RomansLatin commentators on AristotleMagistri officiorumManliiMusic theoristsPeople of the Ostrogothic KingdomPhilosophers of Roman ItalyCatholic philosophersNeoplatonistsRoman-era philosophersItalian logiciansHidden categories: Articles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource referenceHarv and Sfn multiple-target errorsCS1 German-language sources (de)CS1 Italian-language sources (it)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles with hCardsAll articles with incomplete citationsArticles with incomplete citations from October 2015All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2013Articles with unsourced statements from October 2017All articles with failed verificationArticles with failed verification from October 2017CS1 Latin-language sources (la)Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with Project Gutenberg linksArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with CINII identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ICCU identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with LNB identifiersWikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NLG identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with NLK identifiersWikipedia articles with NSK identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with RERO identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiersAC with 26 elements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikisource
		Languages
		ÆngliscالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSarduScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 20 September 2020, at 23:59 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
