	Pontifical university
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
University established or approved by the Roman Catholic Church
A pontifical university is an ecclesiastical university established or approved directly by the Holy See, composed of three main ecclesiastical faculties (Theology, Philosophy and Canon Law) and at least one other faculty. These academic institutes deal specifically with Christian revelation and related disciplines, and the Church's mission of spreading the Gospel, as proclaimed in the apostolic constitution Sapientia christiana.[1] As of 2018, they are governed by the apostolic constitution Veritatis gaudium issued by Pope Francis on 8 December 2017.
Contents
1 Quality and ranking
2 List of pontifical universities
2.1 Former pontifical universities
3 Pontifical faculties
4 Ecclesiastical faculties
5 Pontifical colleges
6 See also
7 References
Quality and ranking[edit]
Pontifical universities follow a European system of study hour calculation, granting the baccalaureate, the licentiate, and the ecclesiastical doctorate. These ecclesiastical degrees are prerequisites to certain offices in the Roman Catholic Church, especially considering that bishop candidates are selected mainly from priests who are doctors of sacred theology (S.T.D.) or canon law (J.C.D.) and that ecclesiastical judges and canon lawyers must have at least the Licentiate of Canon Law (J.C.L.).
Pontifical colleges and universities are generally nondenominational, in that they accept anyone regardless of academic merit, religion or denominational affiliation, race or ethnicity, nationality, or civil status, provided the admission or enrollment requirements and legal documents are submitted, and the campus regulations are obeyed. However, some faculties or degrees and disciplines may be for Catholics only, and non-Catholics, whether Christian or not, may be exempted from participating in otherwise required campus activities, particularly those of a religious nature.
In 2003 the Holy See took part in the Bologna Process, a series of meetings and agreements between European states designed to foster comparable quality standards in higher education, and in the "Bologna Follow-up Group". Pope Benedict XVI established the Agency for the Evaluation and Promotion of Quality in Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties (AVEPRO), an attempt to promote and develop a culture of quality within the ecclesiastical institutions and enable them to aim in developing internationally valid quality criteria.[2]
Compared to secular universities, which are academic institutions for the study and teaching of a broad range of disciplines, ecclesiastical or pontifical universities are "usually composed of three principal ecclesiastical faculties, theology, philosophy, and canon law, and at least one other faculty. A pontifical university specifically addresses Christian revelation and disciplines correlative to the evangelical mission of the Church as set out in the apostolic constitution Sapientia christiana".[3][2]
List of pontifical universities[edit]
Argentina
Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina, Buenos Aires
Austria:
International Theological Institute
Pontifical Athenaeum, Heiligenkreuz Abbey, Heiligenkreuz
Belgium
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven
Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve
Brazil
Main category: Pontifical universities in Brazil
Pontifical Catholic University of Campinas, Campinas
Pontifical Catholic University of Goiás, Goiânia
Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte
Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo, São Paulo
Pontifical Catholic University of Paraná, Curitiba
Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro[4]
Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre
Canada
Dominican University College, Ottawa
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto
Regis College, Toronto
Saint Paul University, Ottawa
Chile
Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, Santiago
Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaiso, Valparaiso
Colombia
Pontifical Bolivarian University, Medellín
Pontifical Xavierian University, Bogotá
Dominican Republic
Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra, Santo Domingo, Santiago de Los Caballeros, and Puerto Plata.
Ecuador
Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador, Quito
France
Catholic University of Lyon, Lyon
Catholic University of Toulouse, Toulouse
Catholic University of the West, Angers
Institut Catholique de Paris, Paris
Université Catholique de Lille, Lille
Germany
Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt, Eichstätt &amp; Ingolstadt
Munich University of Philosophy, Munich
Guatemala
Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala, Guatemala City
Ireland
St Patrick's College, Maynooth, Maynooth; Pontifical University charter 1896[5]
Italy
Main article: Pontifical universities in Rome
Pontifical Atheneum of St. Anselm (Sant'Anselmo), Rome
Pontifical Athenaeum Regina Apostolorum, Rome
Pontifical Gregorian University (Gregorianum), Rome
Pontifical Lateran University, Rome
Pontifical University of the Holy Cross, Rome
Pontifical University of St. Anthony, Rome
Pontifical University of St. Bonaventure (Seraphicum), Rome
Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (Angelicum), Rome
Pontifical Urbaniana University, Rome
Salesian Pontifical University, Rome
Pontificia Università della Santa Croce (Holy Cross), (Pope John Paul II, 1998[6]
Ivory Coast
Université Catholique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, Abidjan
Kenya
Catholic University of Eastern Africa, Nairobi
Lebanon
Holy Spirit University of Kaslik
Saint Joseph University, Beirut
Mexico
Pontifical University of Mexico, Mexico City
Panama
Universidad Católica Santa María La Antigua, Panama City
Paraguay
Universidad Católica Nuestra Señora de la Asunción, Asuncion
Peru
Pontifical Catholic University of Peru (Pontificia Universidad Católica del Peru), Lima
Philippines
The Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas, Manila
Poland
Pontifical University of John Paul II, Krakow
Portugal
Catholic University of Portugal, Lisbon
Puerto Rico
Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico, Ponce
Spain
Comillas Pontifical University, Madrid
Pontifical University of Salamanca
University of Deusto, Bilbao
University of Navarra, Pamplona
Taiwan
Fu Jen Catholic University
United Kingdom
"Mater Ecclesiae College" within St Mary's University, Twickenham since 2019.[7]
United States
International Marian Research Institute at the University of Dayton, Dayton, OH
John Paul II Institute, Washington, DC
Pontifical College Josephinum, Columbus, Ohio (Pope Leo XIII, 1892)[8]
St. Mary's Seminary and University, Baltimore, MD
Additionally, numerous other United States institutions have arrangements by which they may grant pontifical degrees, including:
Sacred Heart Major Seminary, Detroit, MI; offers the Baccalaureate in Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) which is conferred by the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome (Angelicum) through the faculty of SHMS.[9]
Saint Patrick's Seminary and University, Menlo Park, CA; offers the STB through the Pontifical Faculty of the Immaculate Conception.[10]
Kenrick–Glennon Seminary, Shrewsbury, MO; offers the STB through the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.[11]
Mount St. Mary's University Seminary, Emmitsburg, MD; offers the STB through the Pontifical Faculty of the Immaculate Conception.[12]
Mount Angel Abbey's Seminary, Saint Benedict, OR; offers the STB through the Pontifical Athenaeum of Sant’ Anselmo in Rome.[13]
St. Bernard's Seminary, Rochester, NY; was granted by Pope Leo XIII the ability to award pontifical degrees up to and including the Doctorate in Theology and Philosophy.[14]
Uruguay
Universidad Católica del Uruguay Dámaso Antonio Larrañaga, Montevideo
Former pontifical universities[edit]
Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany, until the German Reformation
Heythrop College, University of London; Bellarmine Institute, London, United Kingdom.
Lund Studium Generale, Lund, Sweden, until the Danish Reformation[15]
Royal and Pontifical University of Córdoba, Córdoba, Argentina, until 1856, during the presidency of Justo José de Urquiza
Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico, until the Mexican War of Independence
Universidad Católica de Santo Tomás de Villanueva, Havana, Cuba, until 1961, after the Cuban Revolution
Universidad de San Ignacio, Manila, Philippines, until 1768, after the Expulsion of the Jesuits
Universidad Santo Tomás de Aquino, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic (then in Haiti), until 1823, during the Unification of Hispaniola
University of Aberdeen, Old Aberdeen, Scotland, until the Scottish Reformation
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England, until the English Reformation
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany, until the French Revolutionary Wars
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, until the Danish Reformation
University of Erfurt, until the German Reformation
University of Freiburg, until the Suppression of the Society of Jesus
University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, until the Scottish Reformation
University of Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany, until the German Reformation
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany, until the German Reformation
University of Mainz, until the French Revolutionary Wars
University of Oxford, Oxford, England, until the English Reformation
University of Paris, Paris, France, until the French Revolution
University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany, until the German Reformation
University of Saint Andrews, Saint Andrews, Scotland, until the Scottish Reformation
University of San Marcos, Lima, Peru, until the Peruvian War of Independence
University of Tübingen, until the German Reformation
University of Wittenberg, until the German Reformation
University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany, until the Napoleonic Wars
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden, until the Swedish Reformation
Pontifical faculties[edit]
School of Theology and Religious Studies, The Catholic University of America, Washington, DC[16]
Pontifical Faculty of the Immaculate Conception at the Dominican House of Studies, Washington, D.C.[17]
Theological Faculty, Catholic-Theological Private University Linz, Linz
Facoltà di Teologia di Lugano, Lugano[18]
Marianum Theological Faculty, Rome
Pontifical Faculty at the University of Saint Mary of the Lake (Mundelein Seminary), Mundelein, IL
Pontifical Faculty of the Immaculate Conception (PFIC), Dominican House of Studies, Washington, DC
Wedabhakti Pontifical Faculty of Theology, Sanata Dharma University, Yogyakarta
Ecclesiastical faculties[edit]
Catholic Institute of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
School of Canon Law, Catholic University of America[19]
Pontifical colleges[edit]
Main article: Roman Colleges
A number of national Roman Colleges designated as Pontifical Colleges serve primarily as residence halls for seminarians sent by the bishops of a particular country to study there, such as the Belgian Pontifical College. It may also provide housing for priests pursuing advanced degrees. Students may take classes at the Gregorian, the Angelicum or other universities in Rome. In addition, other members of the clergy may reside there when in Rome.
See also[edit]
Catholic university
Doctor of Canon Law
Ecclesiastical university
Licentiate of Sacred Theology
List of Roman Catholic seminaries
Pontifical universities in Rome
References[edit]
Matthew Bunson, ed. (2010). Catholic Almanac 2010. Our Sunday Visitor. pp. 546–550..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "AVEPRO". avepro.va. Archived from the original on 8 October 2012. Retrieved 1 November 2012.
^ a b Agenzia della Santa Sede per la Valutazione e la Promozione della Qualità delle Università e Facoltà Ecclesiastiche (AVEPRO), http://www.avepro.va/ Archived 8 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine  Accessed 1 November. 2012
^ "Sapientia Christiana (April 15, 1979) | John Paul II". www.vatican.va. Archived from the original on 20 September 2012. Retrieved 24 June 2011.
^ PUC-Rio
^ Pontifical University St. Patrick's College Maynooth
^ Pontifical University of the Holy Cross Fdn
^ "Mater Ecclesiae College – Ecclesiastical Faculties at St Mary's University".
^ PCJ
^ "Baccalaureate in Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) – Sacred Heart Major Seminary". shms.edu. Archived from the original on 20 June 2018. Retrieved 20 June 2018.
^ University, St. Patrick's Seminary &amp; (30 July 2018). "St. Patrick's Seminary – St. Patrick's Seminary &amp; University". St. Patrick's Seminary &amp; University. Archived from the original on 20 June 2018. Retrieved 20 June 2018.
^ "STB". kenrick.edu. Archived from the original on 20 June 2018. Retrieved 20 June 2018.
^ User, Administrative. "Bachelor of Sacred Theology – Mount St. Mary's University". Archived from the original on 20 June 2018. Retrieved 20 June 2018.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 7 September 2015. Retrieved 20 June 2018.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ Zwierlein, Frederick. The Life and Letters of Bishop McQuaid: Prefaced with the History of Catholic Rochester Before His Episcopate, Volume 3 (Rochester, 1927), p. 454–455.
^ Denmark ruled Lund till the Great Northern War; Andrina Stiles (1992), Sweden and the Baltic, 1523–1721, London:  Hodder &amp; Stoughton.
^ Pontifical Status, CUA
^ Dominican House of Studies, Washington DC
^ Offers the S.T.B., according to "Gradi accademici" (in Italian). Lugano, Switzerland: Faculty of Theology. Archived from the original on 16 August 2016. Retrieved 4 July 2016.
^ School of Canon law, CUA
vtePontifical universities and institutions of higher education in RomeUniversities
Antonianum
Gregorian University
Lateran University
Salesian University
University of the Holy Cross
University of Saint Thomas Aquinas
Urban University
Academies
Arcadia
Alphonsian
 Ecclesiastical
Fine Arts and Letters of the Virtuosi al Pantheon
Sciences
Theology
Archaeology
Martyrs
Saint Thomas Aquinas
Immaculate Conception
Mary
Life
Social Sciences
Latin
Other
Pontifical Athenaeum Regina Apostolorum
Pontificio Ateneo Sant Anselmo
Pontifical Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies
Pontifical Biblical Institute
Pontifical Colleges
Institute of the Theology of the Consecrated Life Claretianum
Pontifical Theological Faculty Marianum
John Paul II Pontifical Theological Institute for Marriage and Family Sciences
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pastorale Universitaria
Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music
Pontifical Theological Faculty Teresianum
Patristic Institute Augustinianum
 Education portal
 Catholicism portal
vtePapacyEpiscopate of the bishop of RomeJurisdictionHoly See(Full communion)
Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Primacy
History
Vatican City (Index, Outline)
enclaved in Rome, Italy
Lateran Treaty 1929
along with extraterritorial properties of the Holy See
Headquarters
Vatican City:
Apostolic Palace
Papal apartments
Sistine Chapel
Cathedra:
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Major basilicas
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
TitlesPapal names
His Holiness
Bishop of Rome
Vicar of Jesus Christ
Successor of the Prince of the Apostles
Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church
Patriarch of the West
Primate of Italy
Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province
Sovereign of the Vatican City State
Servant of the servants of God
Symbols
Coats of arms
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
Cross
Keys of Heaven
Regalia and insignia
Rota
Umbraculum
Proclamations
Infallibility
Apostolic constitution
Bull
List
Encyclical
Apostolic exhortation
Ecclesiastical letter
Interdict
Activities
Arbitration
Deposition
Blessing
"Pontifical"
Urbi et Orbi
Conclave
List
Coronation
Consistory
Diplomacy
Inauguration
Mass
High Mass
Oath
Travel
Vestments
Camauro
Falda
Fanon
Ferula
Flabellum
Mantle
Mitre
Mozzetta
Pallium
Ring of the Fisherman
Shoes
Slippers
Sub-cinctorium
Tiara
List
Zucchetto
Transportation
Popemobile
Sedia gestatoria
Household
Camerlengo
Commander of the Swiss Guard
Chaplain
Palatinus
Papal majordomo
Gentlemen
Preacher
Prefect
Prelate of Honour
Prince assistant
Theologian
Staff
College of Cardinals
Cardinal
List
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Synods
Cappella Giulia
Sistine Chapel Choir
See also
Papal nobility
"Black"
Orders of chivalry
Pontifical academy
Pontifical university
in Rome
Pontifical colleges in Rome
Major Seminary
Swiss Guard
Papabile
Canonised popes
Legends
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pontifical_university&amp;oldid=983002323"
		Categories: Pontifical universitiesCatholic seminariesCatholic universities and collegesTypes of university or collegeHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: archived copy as titleCS1 Italian-language sources (it)Use dmy dates from July 2018Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAC with 0 elements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةCatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolEsperantoFrançaisHrvatskiItalianoעברית日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSuomiУкраїнська中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 11 October 2020, at 17:32 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
