	Holy See
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the Holy See of Rome. For other uses, see Holy See (disambiguation).
Not to be confused with Vatican City.
Episcopal jurisdiction of the Catholic Church in Rome, Italy
Holy SeeSancta Sedes  (Latin)Santa Sede  (Italian)
            Flag
             Coat of arms
    CapitalVatican City (de facto)(with extraterritorial properties around Rome, Italy)41°54.2′N 12°27.2′E﻿ / ﻿41.9033°N 12.4533°E﻿ / 41.9033; 12.4533Coordinates: 41°54.2′N 12°27.2′E﻿ / ﻿41.9033°N 12.4533°E﻿ / 41.9033; 12.4533Ecclesiastical jurisdictionDiocese of Rome(universal full communion)Latin ChurchCatholic ChurchOfficial languageLatinWorking languagesItalianFrench (diplomatic)[1]Religion Catholic ChurchDemonym(s)PapalPontificalTypeApostolic episcopal see of the Bishop of Rome, the pope, head of the worldwide Catholic ChurchGovernmentUnitary Christian absolute monarchy[2] (under an ecclesiastical[3] and elective[4] theocracy[5])• Pope Francis• Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Sovereign subject of international law• Apostolic see 1st century by Saint Peter("Prince of the Apostles")• Papal primacy Early Church – Antiquity(Canon law; legal history)• Donation of Sutri 728 (territory in Duchy of Rome by Lombard King Liutprand)• Donation of Pepin 756 (sovereignty in Duchy of Rome reaffirmed by Frankish King Pepin)• Papal States 756–18701075: Dictatus papae1177: Treaty of Venice (sovereignty reaffirmed by Emperor Frederick I of the Holy Roman Empire)• Prisoner in the Vatican 1870–1929(under the Kingdom of Italy)• Vatican City 1929–(Lateran Treaty with Italy)
WebsiteVatican.va
The Holy See (Latin: Sancta Sedes, Ecclesiastical Latin: [ˈsaŋkta ˈsedes]; Italian: Santa Sede [ˈsanta ˈsɛːde]), also called the See of Rome, is the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Rome, known as the pope, which includes the apostolic episcopal see of the Diocese of Rome with universal ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the worldwide Catholic Church, as well as a sovereign entity of international law, governing the Vatican City.
According to Catholic tradition it was founded in the first century by Saints Peter and Paul, by virtue of Petrine and papal primacy, and it is the focal point of full communion for Catholic Christians around the world. As a sovereign entity, the Holy See is headquartered in, operates from, and exercises "exclusive dominion" over the independent Vatican City State enclave in Rome, of which the pope is sovereign. It is organized into polities of the Latin Church and the 23 Eastern Catholic Churches, and their dioceses and religious institutes.
The Holy See is administered by the Roman Curia (Latin for Roman Court), which is the central government of the Catholic Church.[6][7] The Roman Curia includes various dicasteries, comparable to ministries and executive departments, with the Cardinal Secretary of State as its chief administrator. Papal elections are carried out by the College of Cardinals.
Although the Holy See is sometimes metonymically referred to as the "Vatican", the Vatican City State was distinctively established with the Lateran Treaty of 1929, between the Holy See and Italy, to ensure the temporal, diplomatic, and spiritual independence of the papacy.[citation needed] As such, papal nuncios, who are papal diplomats to states and international organizations, are recognized as representing the Holy See not the Vatican City State, as prescribed in the Canon law of the Catholic Church. The Holy See is thus viewed as the central government of the Catholic Church.[7] The Catholic Church, in turn, is the largest non-government provider of education and health care in the world.[8] The diplomatic status of the Holy See facilitates the access of its vast international network of charities.
The Holy See maintains bilateral diplomatic relations with 183 sovereign states, signs concordats and treaties, and performs multilateral diplomacy with multiple intergovernmental organizations, including the United Nations and its agencies, the Council of Europe, the European Communities, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, and the Organization of American States.[9][10]
Contents
1 Terminology
2 History
3 Organization
4 Status in international law
4.1 Diplomacy
4.2 Relationship with the Vatican City and other territories
5 Military
6 Coat of arms
7 See also
8 Notes
9 References
10 Further reading
11 External links
Terminology[edit]
  The papal throne (cathedra), in the apse of Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran, symbolises the Holy See.
The word "see" comes from the Latin word sedes, meaning 'seat', which refers to the episcopal throne (cathedra). The term "Apostolic See" can refer to any see founded by one of the Twelve Apostles, but, when used with the definite article, it is used in the Catholic Church to refer specifically to the see of the Bishop of Rome, whom that Church sees as successor of Saint Peter.[11] While Saint Peter's Basilica in Vatican City is perhaps the church most associated with the papacy, the actual cathedral of the Holy See is the Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran in the city of Rome.[note 1]
Every see is considered holy. In Greek, the adjective "holy" or "sacred" (ἱερά transliterated as hiera) is constantly applied to all such sees as a matter of course. In the West, the adjective is not commonly added, but it does form part of an official title of two sees: besides the Holy See, the Bishopric of Mainz (the former Archbishopric of Mainz, which was also of electoral and primatial rank) bears the title of "the Holy See of Mainz" (Latin: Sancta Sedes Moguntina).[12]
History[edit]
Further information: History of the papacy, Papal primacy, and Temporal power (papal)
The apostolic see of Diocese of Rome was established in the 1st century by Saint Peter and Saint Paul, then the capital of the Roman Empire, according to Catholic tradition. The legal status of the Catholic Church and its property was recognised by the Edict of Milan in 313 by Roman Emperor Constantine the Great, and it became the state church of the Roman Empire by the Edict of Thessalonica in 380 by Emperor Theodosius I.
After the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476, the temporal legal jurisdisction of the papal primacy was further recognised as promulgated in Canon law. The Holy See was granted territory in Duchy of Rome by the Donation of Sutri in 728 of King Liutprand of the Lombards, and sovereignty by the Donation of Pepin in 756 by King Pepin of the Franks.
The Papal States thus held extensive territory and armed forces in 756–1870. Pope Leo III crowned Charlemagne as Roman Emperor by translatio imperii in 800. The pope's temporal power peaked around the time of the papal coronations of the emperors of the Holy Roman Empire from 858, and the Dictatus papae in 1075, which conversely also described Papal deposing power. Several modern states still trace their own sovereignty to recognition in medieval papal bulls.
The sovereignty of the Holy See was retained despite multiple sacks of Rome during the Early Middle Ages. Yet, relations with the Kingdom of Italy and the Holy Roman Empire were at times strained, reaching from the Diploma Ottonianum and Libellus de imperatoria potestate in urbe Roma regarding the "Patrimony of Saint Peter" in the 10th century, to the Investiture Controversy in 1076–1122, and settled again by the Concordat of Worms in 1122. The exiled Avignon Papacy during 1309–1376 also put a strain on the Papacy, which however finally returned to Rome. Pope Innocent X was critical of the Peace of Westphalia in 1648 as it weakened the authority of the Holy See throughout much of Europe. Following the French Revolution, the Papal States were briefly occupied as the "Roman Republic" from 1798 to 1799 as a sister republic of the First French Empire under Napoleon, before their territory was reestablished.
Notwithstanding, the Holy See was represented in and identified as a "permanent subject of general customary international law vis-à-vis all states" in the Congress of Vienna (1814–1815).[13] The Papal States were recognised under the rule of the Papacy and largely restored to their former extent. Despite the Capture of Rome in 1870 by the Kingdom of Italy and the Roman Question during the Savoyard era (which made the pope a "prisoner in the Vatican" from 1870 to 1929), its international legal subject was "constituted by the ongoing reciprocity of diplomatic relationships" that not only were maintained but multiplied.
The Lateran Treaty on 11 February 1929 between the Holy See and Italy recognised Vatican City as an independent city-state, along with extraterritorial properties around the region. Since then, Vatican City is distinct from yet under "full ownership, exclusive dominion, and sovereign authority and jurisdiction" of the Holy See (Latin: Sancta Sedes).[note 2][citation needed]
Organization[edit]
Part of a series on theCatholic ChurchSt. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City
Overview
Pope: Francis
Hierarchy
History (Timeline)
Theology
Liturgy
Sacraments
Mary
Background
Jesus
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Ascension
Early Christianity
Peter
Paul
Fathers
History of the Catholic Church
History of the papacy
Ecumenical councils
Magisterium
Four Marks of the Church
One true church
Apostolic succession
Organisation
Holy See
Roman Curia
College of Cardinals
Ecumenical councils
Episcopal polity
Latin Church
Eastern Churches
Canon law
TheologiesDoctrine
God
Trinity
Father
Son
Holy Ghost
Consubstantialitas
Filioque
Divinum illud munus
Divine Law
Decalogus
Ex Cathedra
Deificatio
Realms beyond the States of the Church
Heaven
Purgatory
Limbo
Hell
Paschal mystery
Passion of Jesus
Crucifixion of Jesus
Harrowing of Hell
Resurrection
Ascension
Blessed Virgin Mary
Mariology
Veneration
Immaculate Conception
Mater Dei
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Dormition
Titles
Queen
Apparition
Mediatrix
Salvation
Baptism of desire
Divine grace
Outside the Church there is no salvation
Infused righteousness
Invincible ignorance
Justification
Means of grace
Merit
Mortal sin
Satisfaction
Moral influence
Sanctification
Synergism
Venial sin
Ecclesiology
College of Bishops
Deposit of faith
Infallibility of the Church
Mystical Body of Christ
Papal primacy
People of God
Perfect community
Subsistit in
Other teachings
Josephology
Morality
Body
Lectures
Sexuality
Apologetics
Amillennialism
Original sin
Hypostatic union
Predestination
Seven deadly sins
Beatific vision
Saints
Dogma
Texts
Bible
Old Testament
New Testament
Official Bible
Vulgate
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Peshitta
Apostles' Creed
Nicene Creed
Athanasian Creed
Catechism of the Catholic Church
Papal bull
Apostolic exhortation
Epistula Encyclica
Philosophy
Cardinal Virtues
Just war
Natural law
Catholic ethics
Personalism
Probabilism
Social teaching
Philosophy of canon law
Philosophers
Virtue ethics
Schools
Augustinianism
Scholasticism
Thomism
Scotism
Occamism
Christian humanism
Molinism
Neo-scholasticism
Worship
Liturgy
Mass
Divine Liturgy
Holy Qurbana
Divine Office
Liturgical year
Sacraments
Baptism
Penance
Eucharist
Confirmation
Anointing of the Sick
Matrimony
Holy orders
Prayer
Devotions
Bible
Biblical canon
Rites
Latin
Roman
Post-Vatican II
Tridentine
Anglican Use
Zaire Use
Gallican
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Eastern
Antiochene
Maronite
West Syriac
Syro-Malankara
Chaldean
East Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Byzantine
Armenian
Alexandrian
Ethiopic
Miscellaneous
Antipopes
Anti-Catholicism
Criticism
Deism/Pandeism
Ecumenism
Monasticism
Relations with:
Islam
Judaism
Protestantism
Societal issues
Art
Evolution
Health care
HIV/AIDS
Homosexuality
Music
Nazi Germany
Politics (in the United States)
Role in civilization
Science
Sex and gender roles
Slavery
the Age of Discovery
Links and resources
Index
Outline
Glossary
 Category
 Media
 Templates
 WikiProject
 Book
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portalvte
Main article: Roman Curia
The Holy See is one of the last remaining seven absolute monarchies in the world, along with Saudi Arabia, Eswatini, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Brunei and Oman.[3][14][15] The pope governs the Catholic Church through the Roman Curia. The Curia consists of a complex of offices that administer church affairs at the highest level, including the Secretariat of State, nine Congregations, three Tribunals, eleven Pontifical Councils, and seven Pontifical Commissions. The Secretariat of State, under the Cardinal Secretary of State, directs and coordinates the Curia. The incumbent, Cardinal Pietro Parolin,[16] is the See's equivalent of a prime minister. Archbishop Paul Gallagher, Secretary of the Section for Relations with States of the Secretariat of State, acts as the Holy See's minister of foreign affairs. Parolin was named in his role by Pope Francis on 31 August 2013.
  Vatican City, the Holy See's sovereign territory
The Secretariat of State is the only body of the Curia that is situated within Vatican City. The others are in buildings in different parts of Rome that have extraterritorial rights similar to those of embassies.
Among the most active of the major Curial institutions are the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which oversees the Catholic Church's doctrine; the Congregation for Bishops, which coordinates the appointment of bishops worldwide; the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples, which oversees all missionary activities; and the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, which deals with international peace and social issues.
Three tribunals exercise judicial power. The Roman Rota handles normal judicial appeals, the most numerous being those that concern alleged nullity of marriage.[17] The Apostolic Signatura is the supreme appellate and administrative court concerning decisions even of the Roman Rota and administrative decisions of ecclesiastical superiors (bishops and superiors of religious institutes), such as closing a parish or removing someone from office. It also oversees the work of other ecclesiastical tribunals at all levels.[18] The Apostolic Penitentiary deals not with external judgments or decrees, but with matters of conscience, granting absolutions from censures, dispensations, commutations, validations, condonations, and other favors; it also grants indulgences.[19]
The Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See coordinates the finances of the Holy See departments and supervises the administration of all offices, whatever be their degree of autonomy, that manage these finances. The most important of these is the Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See.
The Prefecture of the Papal Household is responsible for the organization of the papal household, audiences, and ceremonies (apart from the strictly liturgical part).
The Holy See does not dissolve upon a pope's death or resignation. It instead operates under a different set of laws sede vacante. During this interregnum, the heads of the dicasteries of the Curia (such as the prefects of congregations) cease immediately to hold office, the only exceptions being the Major Penitentiary, who continues his important role regarding absolutions and dispensations, and the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church, who administers the temporalities (i.e., properties and finances) of the See of St. Peter during this period. The government of the See, and therefore of the Catholic Church, then falls to the College of Cardinals. Canon law prohibits the College and the Camerlengo from introducing any innovations or novelties in the government of the Church during this period.
In 2001, the Holy See had a revenue of 422.098 billion Italian lire (about US$202 million at the time), and a net income of 17.720 billion Italian lire (about US$8 million).[20] According to an article by David Leigh in the Guardian newspaper, a 2012 report from the Council of Europe identified the value of a section of the Vatican's property assets as an amount in excess of €680m (£570m); as of January 2013, Paolo Mennini, a papal official in Rome, manages this portion of the Holy See's assets—consisting of British investments, other European holdings and a currency trading arm. The Guardian newspaper described Mennini and his role in the following manner: "... Paolo Mennini, who is in effect the pope's merchant banker. Mennini heads a special unit inside the Vatican called the extraordinary division of APSA – Amministrazione del Patrimonio della Sede Apostolica – which handles the "patrimony of the Holy See"."[21]
The Orders, decorations, and medals of the Holy See are conferred by the pope as temporal sovereign and fons honorum of the Holy See, similar to the orders awarded by other heads of state.
Status in international law[edit]
Main article: Legal status of the Holy See
The Holy See has been recognized, both in state practice and in the writing of modern legal scholars, as a subject of public international law, with rights and duties analogous to those of States. Although the Holy See, as distinct from the Vatican City State, does not fulfill the long-established criteria in international law of statehood—having a permanent population, a defined territory, a stable government and the capacity to enter into relations with other states[22]—its possession of full legal personality in international law is shown by the fact that it maintains diplomatic relations with 180[23] states, that it is a member-state[24] in various intergovernmental international organizations, and that it is: "respected by the international community of sovereign States and treated as a subject of international law having the capacity to engage in diplomatic relations and to enter into binding agreements with one, several, or many states under international law that are largely geared to establish and preserving peace in the world."[25]
Diplomacy[edit]
Main article: Foreign relations of the Holy See
Further information: Diplomatic missions of the Holy See, Holy See and the United Nations, and Multilateral foreign policy of the Holy See
  Foreign relations with the Holy See. .mw-parser-output .legend{page-break-inside:avoid;break-inside:avoid-column}.mw-parser-output .legend-color{display:inline-block;min-width:1.25em;height:1.25em;line-height:1.25;margin:1px 0;text-align:center;border:1px solid black;background-color:transparent;color:black}.mw-parser-output .legend-text{}  Diplomatic relations   Other relations   No relations
Since medieval times the episcopal see of Rome has been recognized as a sovereign entity. The Holy See (not the State of Vatican City) maintains formal diplomatic relations with and for the most recent establishment of diplomatic relations with 183 sovereign states,[23] and also with the European Union, and the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, as well as having relations of a special character with the Palestine Liberation Organization;[26][27] 69 of the diplomatic missions accredited to the Holy See are situated in Rome. The Holy See maintains 180 permanent diplomatic missions abroad, of which 74 are non-residential, so that many of its 106 concrete missions are accredited to two or more countries or international organizations. The diplomatic activities of the Holy See are directed by the Secretariat of State (headed by the Cardinal Secretary of State), through the Section for Relations with States. There are 13 internationally recognized states with which the Holy See does not have relations.[note 3] The Holy See is the only European subject of international law that has diplomatic relations with the government of the Republic of China (Taiwan) as representing China,[29][30] rather than the government of the People's Republic of China (see Holy See–Taiwan relations).
The British Foreign and Commonwealth Office speaks of Vatican City as the "capital" of the Holy See, although it compares the legal personality of the Holy See to that of the Crown in Christian monarchies and declares that the Holy See and the state of Vatican City are two international identities. It also distinguishes between the employees of the Holy See (2,750 working in the Roman Curia with another 333 working in the Holy See's diplomatic missions abroad) and the 1,909 employees of the Vatican City State.[31] The British Ambassador to the Holy See uses more precise language, saying that the Holy See "is not the same as the Vatican City State. … (It) is the universal government of the Catholic Church and operates from the Vatican City State."[32] This agrees exactly with the expression used by the website of the United States Department of State, in giving information on both the Holy See and the Vatican City State: it too says that the Holy See "operates from the Vatican City State".[33]
The Holy See is a member of various international organizations and groups including the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), International Telecommunication Union, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The Holy See is also a permanent observer in various international organizations, including the United Nations General Assembly, the Council of Europe, UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), the World Trade Organization (WTO), and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
Relationship with the Vatican City and other territories[edit]
This article is part of a series onVatican City
History
Duchy of Rome 533–751
Donation of Pepin 750s
Papal States      754–1870
Annates
Congregation for Borders
Fundamental Statute for the Secular Government of the States of the Church
Capture of Rome   1870
"Prisoner in the Vatican" 1870–1929
Roman Question
Law of Guarantees
Lateran Treaty    1929
Vatican City      1929–present
Governor of Vatican City
2010 Vatican sex scandal
History of the Catholic Church since 1962
History of the Papacy
Roman Historical Institutes
Savoyard Era
Vatileaks scandal
Vatican Historical Museum
Vatican City during World War II
Law
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Fundamental Law of Vatican City State
Capital punishment in Vatican City
Crime in Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
Legal status of the Holy See
(Alperin v. Vatican Bank)
(Doe v. Holy See)
Temporal power of the Holy See
Tribunal of Vatican City State
Canon law
1983 Code of Canon Law
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Apostolic Constitution Pastor Bonus
LGBT rights in Vatican City
Pontifical Swiss Guard
Corps of Firefighters of the Vatican City State
Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City
Politics and government
Archives
Association of Vatican Lay Workers
Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State
President
President: Giuseppe Bertello
Pontifical Commission
Secretariat for Communications
Holy See Press Office
L'Osservatore Romano (Vatican City newspaper)
L'Osservatore della Domenica
List of newspapers in Vatican City
Vatican Radio lawsuit
Vatican Information Service
.va (Vatican City internet sites)
Vatican Publishing House
Vatican Radio
Vatican Television Center
Secretariat of State
Secretary: Pietro Parolin
Fabric of Saint Peter
Foreign relations of the Holy See
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Holy See–Israel relations
Holy See–Italy relations
Holy See–Palestine relations
Papal apocrisiarius
Governorate of Vatican City
Governor of Vatican City
Military of Vatican City
Noble Guard
College of Cardinals
Camerlengo (Chamberlain)
Dean
Vical General
Court of Cassation
President: Dominique Mamberti
Court of Appeals
President: Pio Vito Pinto
Tribunale
President: G.  di Sanguinetto
Papacy
Pope
Popemobile
Catholic Church
Latin Church
Holy See
Diocese of Rome
Roman Curia
Universi Dominici Gregis
Papal conclave (Papal elections)
Universi Dominici gregis
Recent conclaves
1978 (Oct)20052013
Papal household
Papal Gentleman
Prefecture of the Pontifical Household
Foreign relations
Section for Relations with States
Concordats
Multilateral foreign policy
Status in international law
Lateran Treaty
Section for Relations with States (Roman Curia)
Secretary for Relations with States: Paul Gallagher
Undersecretaries for Relations with States: Antoine Camilleri
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Nuncios
Vatican and Holy See passports
Visa requirements
Visa policy
The Holy See and the United Nations
Economy
Institute for the Works of Religion
Telephone numbers in Vatican City
Tourism in Vatican City
Transport in Vatican City
Rail transport in Vatican City
Secretariat for the Economy
Financial Information Authority
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Vatican euro coins
Vatican lira
Properties of the Holy See
Symbols
Flag
List of Papal Flags
Anthem
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
00120 (Vatican postcode)
Papal tiara
Papal coronation
Culture
Vatican museums
Vatican Library
Music of Vatican City
Sistine Chapel Choir
Languages of Vatican City
Women in Vatican City
Vatican Christmas Tree
Vatican City football team
Vatican Cricket Team
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Public holidays in Vatican City
Pontifical Academy of Sciences
Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences
The Story of the Vatican, 1941 documentary
Buildings/geography
Apostolic Nunciature
Apostolic Palace
Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore
Borgia Apartments
Bramante Staircase
Domus Sanctae Marthae
Fountains of St. Peter's Square
Gardens of Vatican City
Geography of Vatican City
Gregorian Tower
Mater Ecclesiae (monastery)
Monument to the Royal Stuarts
Palace of the Holy Office
Palazzi Pontifici
Papal Apartments
Saint Peter's Basilica
Saint Peter's Square
Saint Peter's tomb
Lateran Basilica
Lateran Palace
Leonine City
Niccoline Chapel
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Papal tombs
Papal tombs in Old St. Peter's Basilica
Paul VI Audience Hall
Tomb of the Julii
Torre San Giovanni
Scala Regia
Via della Conciliazione
Vatican Climate Forest
Vatican Heliport
Vatican Hill
Vatican Necropolis
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Public holidays in Vatican City
Vatican Secret Archives
St. Peter's Baldachin
Sala Regia
San Pellegrino in Vaticano
Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri
Santa Maria della Pietà in Camposanto dei Teutonici
Vatican Advanced Technology Telescope
Vatican Observatory
Vatican Pharmacy
Bibliotheca Palatina
Cappella Giulia
Cappella Paolina
Cardinal Secretary of State
Casina Pio IV
Circus of Nero
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Saints Martin and Sebastian of the Swiss
Santo Stefano degli Abissini
Santo Stefano degli Ungheresi
Teutonic Cemetery
Cortile del Belvedere
Passetto di Borgo
Porta San Pellegrino
Vatican Museums
Vatican Museums
Gallery of Maps
Gallery of Sistine Chapel ceiling
Collection of Modern Religious Art
Raphael Rooms
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes
Sistine Chapel
Sistine Chapel ceiling
The Last Judgment by Michelangelo
Outline
Index
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portalvte
The Holy See participates as an observer to African Union, Arab League, Council of Europe, Organization of American States, International Organization for Migration, and in the United Nations and its agencies FAO, ILO, UNCTAD, UNEP, UNESCO, UN-HABITAT, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNWTO, WFP, WHO, WIPO. It participates as a guest in the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), and as a full member in IAEA, OPCW, Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).
Although the Holy See is closely associated with the Vatican City, the independent territory over which the Holy See is sovereign, the two entities are separate and distinct. After the Italian seizure of the Papal States in 1870, the Holy See had no territorial sovereignty. In spite of some uncertainty among jurists as to whether it could continue to act as an independent personality in international matters, the Holy See continued in fact to exercise the right to send and receive diplomatic representatives, maintaining relations with states that included the major powers Russia, Prussia, and Austria-Hungary. Where, in accordance with the decision of the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the Nuncio was not only a member of the Diplomatic Corps but its dean, this arrangement continued to be accepted by the other ambassadors. In the course of the 59 years during which the Holy See held no territorial sovereignty, the number of states that had diplomatic relations with it, which had been reduced to 16, actually increased to 29.[34]
The State of the Vatican City was created by the Lateran Treaty in 1929 to "ensure the absolute and visible independence of the Holy See" and "to guarantee to it indisputable sovereignty in international affairs." Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran, the Holy See's former Secretary for Relations with States, said that the Vatican City is a "minuscule support-state that guarantees the spiritual freedom of the pope with the minimum territory".[35]
The Holy See, not the Vatican City, maintains diplomatic relations with states.[36] Foreign embassies are accredited to the Holy See, not to the Vatican City, and it is the Holy See that establishes treaties and concordats with other sovereign entities. When necessary, the Holy See will enter a treaty on behalf of the Vatican City.
Under the terms of the Lateran Treaty, the Holy See has extraterritorial authority over various sites in Rome and two Italian sites outside of Rome, including the Pontifical Palace at Castel Gandolfo. The same authority is extended under international law over the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See in a foreign country.
Military[edit]
See also: Military in Vatican City
Though, like various European powers, earlier popes recruited Swiss mercenaries as part of an army, the Pontifical Swiss Guard was founded by Pope Julius II on 22 January 1506 as the personal bodyguards of the pope and continues to fulfill that function.[37] It is listed in the Annuario Pontificio under "Holy See", not under "State of Vatican City".[38] At the end of 2005, the Guard had 134 members. Recruitment is arranged by a special agreement between the Holy See and Switzerland. All recruits must be Catholic, unmarried males with Swiss citizenship who have completed their basic training with the Swiss Armed Forces with certificates of good conduct, be between the ages of 19 and 30,[39] and be at least 175 cm (5 ft 9 in) in height. Members are armed with small arms and the traditional halberd (also called the Swiss voulge),[40] and trained in bodyguarding tactics.[41]
The police force within Vatican City, known as the Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City, belongs to the city state, not to the Holy See.
Holy See signed the UN treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, a binding agreement for negotiations for the total elimination of nuclear weapons.[42][43]
Coat of arms[edit]
.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{display:flex;flex-direction:column}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{display:flex;flex-direction:row;clear:left;flex-wrap:wrap;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{margin:1px;float:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .theader{clear:both;font-weight:bold;text-align:center;align-self:center;background-color:transparent;width:100%}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbcaption{background-color:transparent}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-left{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-right{text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-center{text-align:center}@media all and (max-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;max-width:none!important;align-items:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{justify-content:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{float:none!important;max-width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle .thumbcaption{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow>.thumbcaption{text-align:center}}Coat of arms of the Holy SeeArms of Vatican City State
Main article: Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
The difference between the two coats of arms is that the arms of the Holy See have the gold key in bend and the silver key in bend sinister[44][45] (as in the sede vacante coat of arms and in the external ornaments of the papal coats of arms of individual popes), while the reversed arrangement of the keys was chosen for the arms of the newly founded Vatican City State in 1929.[46]
See also[edit]
Global organisation of the Catholic Church
Index of Vatican City-related articles
Patriarchate
Pontifical academy
Sovereign Military Order of Malta
Notes[edit]
^ Although Saint John Lateran is legally within Rome, it is one of the properties of the Holy See granted extraterritorial privileges.
^ The Holy See is the central governing body of the Catholic Church and a sovereign entity recognized by international law, consisting of the pope and the Roman Curia. It is also commonly referred to as "the Vatican", especially when used as a metonym for the hierarchy of the Catholic Church.
^ Afghanistan, Bhutan, Brunei, Comoros, Laos, the Maldives, North Korea, Oman, the People's Republic of China, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Tuvalu and Vietnam.[28]
References[edit]
^ "About the Holy See"..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Internet portal of Vatican City State". Vatican City State. Archived from the original on 24 May 2011. Retrieved 9 July 2011.
^ a b "CIA's factbook Vatican State".
^ Robbers, Gerhard (2006) Encyclopedia of World Constitutions. Infobase Publishing. ISBN 978-0-81606078-8. p. 1009.
^ Nick Megoran (2009) "Theocracy", p. 226 in International Encyclopedia of Human Geography, vol. 11, Elsevier ISBN 978-0-08-044911-1
^ "Code of Canon Law: text – IntraText CT".
^ a b United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs (1989). "The Holy See". Backgr Notes Ser: 1–4. PMID 12178005.
^ Agnew, John (12 February 2010). "Deus Vult: The Geopolitics of Catholic Church". Geopolitics. 15 (1): 39–61. doi:10.1080/14650040903420388. S2CID 144793259.
^ "Holy See's Presence in the International Organizations". www.vatican.va. Retrieved 3 September 2019.
^ "Holy See". Archived from the original on 31 December 2010. Retrieved 5 February 2016.
^ "Catholic Encyclopedia: St. Peter, Prince of the Apostles".
^ Kersting, Hans (2003). MAINZ – tours on foot. 4. Bayerische Verlagsanstalt. ISBN 978-3-89889-078-6.
^ "'Moral Diplomacy' of the Holy See: Multi-Level Diplomacy of a Transnational Actor".
^ "State and Government". www.vaticanstate.va. Retrieved 1 April 2018.
^ "These 7 nations are ruled by an absolute monarchy!". Stories of World. 22 December 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2018.
^ "Dichiarazione Di S.E. Mons. Pietro Parolin in Occasione della sua Nomina a Segretario di Stato". Archived from the original on 22 September 2013. Retrieved 28 October 2013.
^ Code of Canon Law, canons 1443–1444 Archived 8 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Vatican.va. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ Code of Canon Law, canon 1445 Archived 8 January 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Vatican.va. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ ''Pastor bonus'', articles 117–120 Archived 23 February 2001 at the Wayback Machine. The Vatican. (28 June 1988). Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ "Economic Report of the Holy See for 2000" Zenit 6 July 2001
^ David Leigh (21 January 2013). "How the Vatican built a secret property empire using Mussolini's millions". The Guardian. Retrieved 23 January 2013.
^ These criteria for statehood were first authoritatively enunciated at the Montevideo Convention on Rights and Duties of States, signed by American states on 26 December 1933.
^ a b "Bilateral and Multilateral Relations of the Holy See, update on October 22, 2009". Archived from the original on 9 July 2014.
^ e.g. IAEA, OSCE, IOM Archived 12 December 2007 at the Wayback Machine
^ Robert Araujo and John Lucal, Papal Diplomacy and the Quest for Peace, the Vatican and International Organizations from the early years to the League of Nations, Sapienza Press (2004), ISBN 1-932589-01-5, p. 16. See also James Crawford, The Creation of States in International Law, (1979) p. 154.
^ Bilateral and Multilateral Relations of the Holy See Archived 12 October 2010 at the Wayback Machine. The Vatican. (31 May 2007). Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ "179 states have full diplomatic relations with the Holy See". Zenit News Agency. 11 January 2012. Archived from the original on 16 January 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2012.
^ "Mission Impossible: Eject the Holy See from the United Nations". chiesa: News, analysis, and documents on the Catholic Church, by Sandro Magister. 21 August 2007. Retrieved 3 October 2007.
^ Holy See Press Office: "Bilateral and Multilateral Relations of the Holy See" Archived 6 September 2014 at the Wayback Machine
^ Annuario Pontificio 2013 (Libreria Editrice Vaticana, 2013, ISBN 978-88-209-9070-1), pp. 1307 (Rappresentanze Pontificie) and 1338 (Corpo Diplomatico presso la Santa Sede)
^ Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office: Travel &amp; living abroad Retrieved 8 January 2011 Archived 31 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine
^ Ambassador's Address on UK-Holy See Relations Archived 13 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine (emphasis added)
^ Background Note: Holy See. State.gov (8 March 2011). Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ Lecture by Archbishop Giovanni Lajolo, 16 February 2006 Archived 27 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine. 30giorni.it. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ Lecture by Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran, 22 April 2002 Archived 15 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine. Vatican.va. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ Bilateral and Multilateral Relations of the Holy See Archived 9 July 2014 at the Wayback Machine. Vatican.va. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ "Päpstliche Schweizergarde: 1506 Foundation". 30 October 2013. Archived from the original on 30 October 2013.
^ Annuario Pontificio 2013 (Libreria Editrice Vaticana 2013), p. 1269
^ "Päpstliche Schweizergarde: Conditions". 21 April 2013. Archived from the original on 21 April 2013.
^ "Swiss Voulge".
^ See videos at Pontifical Swiss Guards, Gallery
^ "Chapter XXVI: Disarmament – No. 9 Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons". United Nations Treaty Collection. 7 July 2017.
^ "Holy See urges ratification of Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty". Vatican News. 23 October 2018.
^ Galbreath, Donald Lindsay (13 September 1930). "A Treatise on Ecclesiastical Heraldry". W. Heffer and sons, Limited – via Google Books.
^ "The golden key, which points upwards on the dexter side, signifies the power that extends even to Heaven. The silver key, which must point up to the sinister side, symbolizes the power over all the faithful on earth." Bruno Bernhard Heim, Heraldry in the Catholic Church: Its Origin, Customs and Laws (Van Duren 1978 ISBN 9780391008731), p. 54.
^ "Appendix B ("All. B. Stemma Ufficiale dello Stato della Città del Vaticano") of the Fundamental Law of Vatican City State, 7 June 1929" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 December 2013. Retrieved 7 February 2014.
Further reading[edit]
Köck, Heribert F. (1975). Die Völkerrechtliche Stellung Des Heiligen Stuhls: Dargestellt an Seiner Beziehungen Zu Staaten Und Internationalen Organisationen. Berlin: Duncker und Humblot. ISBN 978-3-428-03355-3.
Köck, Heribert F. (1995). "Holy See".  In Bernhardt, Rudolf; Macalister-Smith, Peter (eds.). Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law. 2. Amsterdam: North-Holland. ISBN 978-0-444-86245-7.
Brusher, Joseph S. (1959). Popes Through the Ages. Princeton, N.J: Van Nostrand. OCLC 742355324.
Chamberlin, E. R. (1969). The Bad Popes. New York: Dial Press. OCLC 647415773.
Dollison, John (1994). Pope-pourri. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-88615-8.
Maxwell-Stuart, P. G. (1997). Chronicle of the Popes: The Reign-by-Reign Record of the Papacy from St. Peter to the Present. London: Thames and Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-01798-2.
Norwich, John Julius (2011). The Popes: A History. London: Chatto &amp; Windus. ISBN 978-0-7011-8290-8.
Duffy, Eamon (1997). Saints and Sinners, a History of the Popes. Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-07332-4.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Durant, William James (1950). The Story of Civilization. IV. The Age of Faith: A History of Medieval Civilization – Christian, Islamic, and Judaic – from Constantine to Dante, A.D. 325–1300. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-01200-7.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Durant, William James (1957). The Story of Civilization. VI. The Reformation. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN 978-0-671-61050-0.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Franzen, August; Dolan, John (1969). A History of the Church. Herder and Herder.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Granfield, Patrick (1987). The Limits of the Papacy: Authority and Autonomy in the Church. New York: Crossroad. ISBN 978-0-8245-0839-5.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Grisar, Hartmann (1912). History of Rome and the Popes in the Middle Ages. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner. OCLC 11025456.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
John Paul II, Pope (22 February 1996). "Universi Dominici Gregis". Vatican Publishing House.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Kelly, J. N. (1986). Oxford Dictionary of the Popes. Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0-19-190935-1.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Kerr, William Shaw (1950). A Handbook on the Papacy. London: Marshall, Morgan &amp; Scott. OCLC 51018118.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Küng, Hans (2003). The Catholic Church: A Short History. Random House. ISBN 978-0-8129-6762-3.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Loomis, Louise Ropes (2006) [1916]. The Book of the Popes (Liber Pontificalis): To the Pontificate of Gregory I. Merchantville, New Jersey: Evolution Publishing. ISBN 978-1-889758-86-2.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Noble, Thomas; Strauss, Barry (2005). Western Civilization. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-618-43277-6.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
Orlandis, José (1993). A Short History of the Catholic Church. Scepter. ISBN 978-1-85182-125-9.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
La Due, William J. (1999). The Chair of Saint Peter: A History of the Papacy. Maryknoll, N.Y: Orbis Books. ISBN 978-1-57075-249-0.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Holy See.
Look up holy see in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
The Holy See
The Holy See News Portal (News.va)
The Vatican's channel on YouTube
Primacy of the Apostolic See
CIA World Factbook on Holy See
Between Venus and Mars, the Church of Rome Chooses Both—The Holy See's geopolitics analyzed in the light of the dominant doctrines
The Holy See in the course of time, from an Orthodox perspective
Inside the Vatican Documentary on National Geographic YouTube channel
vteHoly See
Apostolic episcopal see of Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Sovereign subject of international law
History
Apostolic see
Primacy of Peter
History of papal primacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Lateran Palace
Museum
Duchy of Rome
Donation of Sutri
Donation of Pepin
Avignon Papacy
Papal States
Temporal power
Investiture Controversy
Age of Revolution
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Savoyard era
Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
World War II
Warsaw Pact
Sovereignsubjectofinternationallaw(Legal status)Officials
Pope Francis
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Cardinals
List
Advisers
Governance
Secretariat of State
College of Cardinals
Papal conclave
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Foreign affairs(Multilateral policy)
Section for Relations with States
To the Holy See
Of the Holy See
Heads
Italy
United Nations
Permanent Observer
in Geneva
European Union
Permanent Observer to the Council of Europe
Apostolic Nunciature
Nuncio
Treaties
Concordats
Dioceseof Romewith  universalfull communion(Papal primacy)Synods
Ordinary general assemblies
Extraordinary general assemblies
Special assemblies
Ecclesiasticalprovince of Rome(Vicariate: Rome,Vatican City)Suburbicarian sees
Ostia
Velletri-Segni
Porto-Santa Rufina
Frascati
Palestrina
Albano
Sabina-Poggio Mirteto
Territorial abbeys
Montecassino
Subiaco
Suffragan dioceses
Gaeta
Anagni-Alatri
Civita Castellana
Civitavecchia-Tarquinia
Frosinone-Veroli-Ferentino
Latina-Terracina-Sezze-Priverno
Rieti
Sora-Cassino-Aquino-Pontecorvo
Tivoli
Viterbo
Propertiesincludingextra-territorialityInsideRome
Major basilicas
St. Peter's Basilica
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Lateran Palace
Lateran University
Scala Sancta
Adjoining buildings
Palace of Saint Callixtus
Gianicolo Hill area
Pontifical Urban University
Pontifical North American College
Bambino Gesù Hospital
Palazzo della Cancelleria
Palace of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples
Palace of the Holy Office
Palace of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches
Palazzo Pio
Palace of the Vicariate
Pontifical Minor Roman Seminary
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Benedictine monastery
Pontifical Oratory of San Paolo
Beda College
Paul VI Audience Hall
Non-extraterritorial
Palace of the Holy Apostles
Palace of San Carlo ai Catinari
Collegio Bellarmino
Archaeological Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pontifical Lombard Seminary
Russian College
Two Palaces of Sant'Apollinare
House of Retreat for the Clergy of Saints John and Paul
Nympheum of Nero
OutsideRome
Papal Palace of Castel Gandolfo
Papal farm
Gardens of the Villa Cybo
Villa Barberini
Adjacent gardens
Summer estate of Pontificio Collegio Urbano de Propaganda Fide
Vatican Radio antennae area of Santa Maria di Galeria
Non-extraterritorial
Basilica of the Holy House
Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua
See also
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Awards
Papal household
Peter's Pence
Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Swiss Guard
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vte Foreign relations of the Holy SeeAfrica
Algeria
Central African Republic
Congo, Democratic Republic of
Congo, Republic of
Ivory Coast
Americas
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Cuba
Mexico
Nicaragua
Peru
United States
Uruguay
Venezuela
Asia
Bangladesh
China
Georgia
India
Indonesia
Iran
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Kurdistan Region
Lebanon
Malaysia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pakistan
Palestine
Philippines
Saudi Arabia
South Korea
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Turkey
United Arab Emirates
Vietnam
Europe
European Union
Albania
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
France
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Italy
North Macedonia
Poland
Romania
Russia (Soviet Union)
Serbia
Spain
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Oceania
Papua New Guinea
Multinational
Observer to the Council of Europe
Observer to the OAS
Observer to the UN
Observer to the UN in Geneva
Related topics
Cardinal Secretary of State
Concordats
Diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Diplomatic missions to the Holy See
Heads of the diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Holy See and the United Nations
Legal status of the Holy See
Multilateral foreign policy of the Holy See
Secretariat of State
Section for Relations with States (Roman Curia)
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vte Orders, decorations, and medals of the Holy SeeOrdersof the Holy See
 Supreme Order of Christ
 Order of the Golden Spur
 Order of Pope Pius IX
 Order of St. Gregory the Great
 Order of Saint Sylvester
Ordersunder protectionof the Holy See(with distinctions) Order of the Holy Sepulchre ( Palm of Jerusalem,  Pilgrim Shell,  Cross of Merit)
 Sovereign Military Order of Malta ( Order pro Merito Melitensi,  Medal of the Order pro Merito Melitensi)Other distinctions
 Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice
 Benemerenti medal
 Jerusalem Pilgrim's Cross
Golden Rose
Defunct/dormantdistinctions(selection)
Order of Saint John of the Lateran
Order of Saint Cecilia (1870)
Order of the Moor (1870)
Order of Saint Sylvester and the Militia Aurata (1905)
Advocates of Saint Peter (1909)
Blessed sword and hat (1823)
 Pro Petri Sede (1860)
 Fidei et Virtuti (1867)
 Lauretan Cross (ca. 1980s)
 Papal Lateran Cross (1977)
See also
Papal household
Papal nobility
Black nobility
Pontifical academies
Swiss Guard
Other Catholic orders of chivaly
Catholic ecclesiastical decorations
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vtePapacyEpiscopate of the bishop of RomeJurisdictionHoly See(Full communion)
Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Primacy
History
Vatican City (Index, Outline)
enclaved in Rome, Italy
Lateran Treaty 1929
along with extraterritorial properties of the Holy See
Headquarters
Vatican City:
Apostolic Palace
Papal apartments
Sistine Chapel
Cathedra:
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Major basilicas
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
TitlesPapal names
His Holiness
Bishop of Rome
Vicar of Jesus Christ
Successor of the Prince of the Apostles
Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church
Patriarch of the West
Primate of Italy
Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province
Sovereign of the Vatican City State
Servant of the servants of God
Symbols
Coats of arms
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
Cross
Keys of Heaven
Regalia and insignia
Rota
Umbraculum
Proclamations
Infallibility
Apostolic constitution
Bull
List
Encyclical
Apostolic exhortation
Ecclesiastical letter
Interdict
Activities
Arbitration
Deposition
Blessing
"Pontifical"
Urbi et Orbi
Conclave
List
Coronation
Consistory
Diplomacy
Inauguration
Mass
High Mass
Oath
Travel
Vestments
Camauro
Falda
Fanon
Ferula
Flabellum
Mantle
Mitre
Mozzetta
Pallium
Ring of the Fisherman
Shoes
Slippers
Sub-cinctorium
Tiara
List
Zucchetto
Transportation
Popemobile
Sedia gestatoria
Household
Camerlengo
Commander of the Swiss Guard
Chaplain
Palatinus
Papal majordomo
Gentlemen
Preacher
Prefect
Prelate of Honour
Prince assistant
Theologian
Staff
College of Cardinals
Cardinal
List
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Synods
Cappella Giulia
Sistine Chapel Choir
See also
Papal nobility
"Black"
Orders of chivalry
Pontifical academy
Pontifical university
in Rome
Pontifical colleges in Rome
Major Seminary
Swiss Guard
Papabile
Canonised popes
Legends
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portal
vteRoman Curia of the Holy SeeDicasteriesSecretariatesSecretariat of State
Cardinal Secretary of State
Latin Letters Office
Secretary for Relations with States
Secretariat for the Economy
Council for the Economy
Peter's Pence
Congregations(Advocates)
Doctrine of the Faith
Archive
Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments
Evangelization of Peoples
Causes of Saints
Bishops
Clergy
Oriental Churches
Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life
Catholic Education
Tribunals
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Roman Rota
1983 Code of Canon Law
Councils
Christian Unity
Legislative Texts
Interreligious Dialogue
Culture
New Evangelization
Offices
Apostolic Camera
Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Departments
Laity, Family and Life
Integral Human Development
Communications
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
L'Osservatore Romano
Vatican Polyglot Press
Vatican Publishing House
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Vatican News App
Pope2you
Institutes
Prefecture of the Papal Household
Office for the Liturgical Celebrations of the Supreme Pontiff
Commissions
Sacred Archaeology
Biblical
International Theological
For the Catechism
For Vatican City State · For Latin America
Disciplinary of the Roman Curia
For the Protection of Minors
Committees
Historical Sciences
International Eucharistic Congresses
Academies
Arcadia
Alphonsian
 Ecclesiastical
Fine Arts and Letters of the Virtuosi al Pantheon
Sciences
Theology
Archaeology
Martyrs
Saint Thomas Aquinas
Immaculate Conception
Mary
Life
Social Sciences
Latin
OtherInstitutions
College of Cardinals
Vatican Library
Archives
Film
Agenzia Fides
.va
Fabric of Saint Peter
St. Peter's Basilica
Office of Papal Charities
Peregrinatio ad Petri Sedem
Vatican Observatory
Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music
Agency for the Evaluation and Promotion of Qualityin Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties
Organisations
Institute for the Works of Religion
Financial Information Authority
Labour Office of the Apostolic See
Synod of Bishops in the Catholic Church
Swiss Guard
Council of Cardinal Advisers
Diocese of Rome
Vicar General for Vatican City
Vicar General for the Diocese of Rome
Vice-President of the Diocese of Rome
Roman pilgrimage work
RomaSette
History
Roman Inquisition (16th century)
Immensa Aeterni Dei (1588)
Reform by Paul VI (1967)
Reform by John Paul II (1988)
Formerdicasteries
Congregation for Borders
Congregation of Ceremonies
Sacred Congregation of the Index
Congregation of the Vatican Press
Sacred Congregation of the Consulta
Sacred Congregation of Rites
Apostolic Chancery
Apostolic Dataria
Secretariate of Briefs to Princes and of Latin Letters
Special Administration of the Holy See
Pontifical Commission for the Cultural Heritage of the Church
Pontifical Commission Ecclesia Dei
Pontifical Council for Social Communications
Pontifical Council for the Family
Pontifical Council for the Laity
Cor Unum
Justice and Peace
Pastoral Care of Migrants and Itinerant People
Pastoral Assistance to Health Care Workers
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteVatican City articles
Index
Outline
Holy See
Properties
Pope: Francis
List of sovereigns
Vicar General for Vatican City
History
History of the papacy
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Circus of Nero
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Papal tombs
Leonine City
Cortile del Belvedere
Santo Stefano degli Ungheresi
Lateran Treaty
GeographyMajor basilicaSt. Peter's Basilica
Chair of Saint Peter
St. Peter's Baldachin
Pietà
Vatican Necropolis
Saint Peter's tomb
Papal tombs
Tomb of the Julii
Monument to the Royal Stuarts
Apostolic Palace
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Borgia Apartments
Clementine Hall
Papal apartments
Stufetta del cardinal Bibbiena
Cappella Paolina
Raphael Rooms
Niccoline Chapel
Sala Regia
Scala Regia
Sistine Chapel
altarpiece
ceiling
Vatican Museums
Historical
Paintings
Modern Religious
Pio-Clementino
Chiaramonti
Gregoriano Etrusco
Gregoriano Egiziano
Pio Cristiano
Bramante Staircase
Maps
Gregorian Tower
Casina Pio IV
Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri
Domus Sanctae Marthae
Holy Spirit Chapel
Gardens
Santa Maria della Pietà in Camposanto dei Teutonici
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Mater Ecclesiae Monastery
Sant'Egidio in Borgo
Santi Martino e Sebastiano degli Svizzeri
Paul VI Audience Hall
The Resurrection
Passetto di Borgo
San Pellegrino in Vaticano
St. Peter's Square
Via della Conciliazione
Fountains
Porta San Pellegrino
Saint John's Tower
Santo Stefano degli Abissini
Vatican Pharmacy
Vatican HillPolitics
Elections
Foreign relations
Vicar General
Law
Crime
Fundamental Law
Governance
Pope Francis
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Military
Corps of Gendarmerie
Swiss Guard
See also: Corps of Firefighters
Economy
Banking
Vatican euro coins
Communications
.va [Internet domain]
Poste Vaticane
Postage stamps and postal history
Secretariat for the Economy
Tourism
Infrastructure
Transport
Rail
Heliport
Culture
Academy of Sciences
AT telescope
observatory
Architecture
Demographics
Languages
Music
Sistine Chapel Choir
Philatelic and Numismatic Office
Public holidays
Vatican Library
film
Archives
Apostolic Archive
Vatican Climate Forest
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
L'Osservatore Romano
Vatican Polyglot Press
Vatican Publishing House
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Vatican News App
Pope2you
Religion
Catholic Church
Symbols
Anthem
Coats of arms
Flag
Sports
Amateur Sports Association
National football team (Men)
National football team (Women)
Vatican Athletics
Vatican Cricket Team
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
Links to related articles
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
vteLatin ChurchLatin Church, also known as the Western Church, the largest particular church sui iuris of the Catholic Church, and the original and still major part of Western ChristianityPatriarchates(by order of precedence)Current
Rome ("Patriarch of the West"): Pope Francis (with cathedra in Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran)
Jerusalem: Vacant
East Indies: Filipe Neri Ferrão
Lisbon: Manuel Clemente
Venice: Francesco Moraglia
Defunct
Carthage (−1964)
Alexandria (1276–1964)
Antioch (1098 -1964)
Constantinople (1204–1964)
West Indies (1524–1963)
Aquileia (560–1751)
Ethiopia (1555–1663)
Grado (560–1451)
HistoryApostolic sees
Rome
Peter
Paul
Syracuse
Peter
Malta
Paul
Milan
Barnabas
Santiago de Compostela
James
Church Fathers
Tertullian
Cyprian
Hilary of Poitiers
Ambrose*
Pope Damasus I
Jerome*
Augustine of Hippo*
Pope Gregory I*
Isidore of Seville
Apostolic succession
History of the papacy
Papal primacy
Historical development
First Martyrs
Great Church
Early African church
Vulgate
East–West Schism
Scholasticism
Crusades
Northern
States
Military orders
Western Schism
Age of Discovery
Humanism
Protestant Reformation
Council of Trent
Counter-Reformation
Vatican I
Vatican II
1983 Code of Canon LawLiturgical language
Ecclesiastical Latin
Liturgical ritesLiturgical days(Latin Mass)Current
Ambrosian Rite
Rite of Braga
Mozarabic Rite
Roman Rite
Mass of Paul VI (Ordinary form)
Tridentine Mass
Extraordinary form
Anglican Use
Zaire Use
Orders
Benedictine Rite
Carmelite Rite
Carthusian Rite
Cistercian Rite
Dominican Rite
Norbertine Rite
Defunct
African Rite
Aquileian Rite
British
Celtic Rite
Durham Rite
Hereford Use
Sarum Use
York Use
Gallican Rite
Missa Nautica
Missa sicca
Missa Venatoria
Pre-Tridentine Mass
See also
Latin cross
Latin Church in the Middle East
Latins
Turkey
Titular sees
Eastern Catholic Churches
Conference of the Latin Bishops of the Arab Regions
* = Also Great Doctors
 Category
vteBasilicas in the Diocese of Rome
Roman Catholic ecclesiastical province of Rome
Holy See
Major
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Minor
S. Lorenzo fuori le mura
S. Agnese fuori le mura
S. Agostino
S. Anastasia al Palatino
S. Andrea delle Fratte
S. Andrea della Valle
S. Antonio da Padova in Via Merulana
S. Apollinare alle Terme
Ss. Apostoli
S. Balbina
S. Bartolomeo all'Isola
Ss. Bonifacio ed Alessio
S. Camillo de Lellis
S. Carlo al Corso
S. Cecilia in Trastevere
Ss. Celso e Giuliano
S. Clemente
Ss. Cosma e Damiano
S. Crisogono
S. Croce in Via Flaminia
S. Croce in Gerusalemme
S. Eugenio
S. Eustachio
S. Francesca Romana
 S. Giovanni a Porta Latina
S. Giovanni dei Fiorentini
Ss. Giovanni e Paolo
S. Lorenzo in Damaso
S. Lorenzo in Lucina
S. Maria Ausiliatrice
S. Marco
S. Maria degli Angeli
S. Maria in Cosmedin
S. Maria in Domnica
S. Maria in Aracoeli
S. Maria del Popolo
S. Maria sopra Minerva
S. Maria in Trastevere
S. Maria in Via
S. Maria in Via Lata
S. Maria della Vittoria
S. Martino ai Monti
Ss. Nereo e Achilleo
S. Nicola in Carcere
S. Pancrazio
Pantheon
S. Pietro in Vincoli
S. Prassede
S. Pudenziana
Ss. Quattro Coronati
S. Saba
S. Sabina
Sacro Cuore di Maria
Sacro Cuore di Cristo Re
Sacro Cuore di Gesù a Castro Pretorio
S. Sebastiano fuori le mura
S. Silvestro in Capite
S. Sisto Vecchio
S. Sofia a Via Boccea
S. Stefano Rotondo
S. Teresa
S. Vitale
 Catholicism portal
vtePatriarchates in ChristianityTraditional ecclesiastical jurisidictions of primates in Christianity, sorted according to earliest apostolic legacy  (branched where multiple denominational claimants)
Legend: in bold blue: Catholic Church, light blue: Eastern Orthodox Church, green: Oriental Orthodoxy, italic: NestorianismEarlyChristianity(Antiquity)(30–325/476)Pentarchy(fiveapostolicsees*,as orderedby theCouncilof Ephesusin 431)Patriarch of Rome (1st century)Holy See  (since 1st century)Patriarch of Constantinople (451)
Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople (since 330)
Latin Patriarchate of Constantinople (1204-1964)
Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople (since 1461)
Patriarch of Antioch (1st century)
Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Antioch (since 518)
Syriac Orthodox Patriarchate of Antioch (since 518)
Maronite Patriarchate (since 685)
Syriac Catholic Patriarchate of Antioch (since 1668)
Melkite Catholic Patriarchate of Antioch (since 1724)
Latin Patriarchate of Antioch (1099-1964)
Patriarch of Alexandria (1st century)Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria (since 451) · Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria (since 451) · 
Latin Patriarchate of Alexandria (1219-1964) · Coptic Catholic Patriarchate of Alexandria (since 1824)Patriarch of Jerusalem (451)Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem (since 451) · Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem (since 638) · Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem (since 1099)OtherPatriarch of Carthage (2nd century-1076)Latin Catholic titular episcopate (1518-1964) · Archbishop of Tunis (since 1884)Patriarch of Seleucia-Ctesiphon (280-1552)
Chaldean Catholic Patriarchate of Babylon (since 1553)
Assyrian Church of the East Patriarchateof Seleucia-Ctesiphon (since 1830)
Ancient Church of the East Patriarchateof Seleucia-Ctesiphon (since 1968)
Patriarch of Cilicia (294)
Catholicos of All Armenians (since 301)
Armenian  Catholicosate of Cilicia (since 1058)
Patriarchate of Cilicia (since 1742)
Middle Ages(476–1517)
Patriarchate of Aquileia (568-1751)
Patriarchate of Grado (725-1451)
Patriarchate of Bulgaria (since 919)
Patriarchate of Georgia (since 1010)
Serbian Orthodox Patriarchate of Peć (since 1346)
Patriarchate of Venice (since 1451)
Early Modern era(1517-1789)
Patriarchate of the West Indies (since 1524)
Latin Patriarchate of Ethiopia (1555-1663)
Patriarchate of the East Indies (since 1572)
Patriarchate of Moscow (since 1589)
Patriarchate of Lisbon (since 1716)
Late Modern era(1789–present)
Malankara Orthodox Syrian Catholicos of the East (since 1912)
Patriarchate of Romania (since 1925)
Ethiopian Orthodox Patriarchate of Ethiopia (since 1988)
Patriarchate of Kiev (1992–2018; 2019–)
Eritrean Orthodox Patriarchate of Eritrea (since 1994)
Apostolic sees:¨
Rome: Peter, Paul
Constantinople: Andrew
Antioch: Peter
Alexandria: Mark
Jerusalem: James
Babylon: Thomas, Bartholomew, and Thaddeus
Cilicia: Bartholomew, and Jude
 Christianity portal
vteSovereign states and dependencies of EuropeSovereign states
Albania
Andorra
Armenia2
Austria
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus2
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland1
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
North Macedonia
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Vatican City
States with limitedrecognition
Abkhazia
Artsakh2
Kosovo
Northern Cyprus2
South Ossetia
Transnistria
DependenciesDenmark
Faroe Islands1
autonomous country of the Kingdom of Denmark
United Kingdom
Akrotiri and Dhekelia2
Sovereign Base Areas
Gibraltar
British Overseas Territory
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
Crown dependencies
Special areas ofinternal sovereigntyFinland
Åland Islands
autonomous region subject to the Åland Convention of 1921
Norway
Svalbard
unincorporated area subject to the Svalbard Treaty
United Kingdom
Northern Ireland
country of the United Kingdom subject to the British-Irish Agreement
1 Oceanic islands within the vicinity of Europe are usually grouped with the continent even though they are not situated on its continental shelf.2 Some countries completely outside the conventional geographical boundaries of Europe are commonly associated with the continent due to ethnological links.
vte Council of EuropeInstitutions
Secretary General
Committee of  Ministers
Parliamentary  Assembly
Congress
Court of Human Rights
Commissioner for Human Rights
Commission for the Efficiency of Justice
Commission against Racism and Intolerance
EU relations
Members
Albania
Andorra
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
North Macedonia
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Observers
Canada
Holy See
Israel
Japan
Mexico
United States
Sovereign Military Order of Malta
Former members
Czechoslovakia (1991–1992)
Saar (assoc. 1950–1956)
Serbia and Montenegro (2003–2006)
vteOrganization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)Members
Albania
Andorra
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Canada
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Holy See
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Netherlands
North Macedonia
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Uzbekistan
Partners for  Cooperation
Afghanistan
Algeria
Australia
Egypt
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Morocco
South Korea
Thailand
Tunisia
Bodies and posts
Parliamentary Assembly
ODIHR
Commissioner on National Minorities
Representative on Freedom of the Media
vteHistory of EuropePrehistory
Paleolithic Europe
Neolithic Europe
Bronze Age Europe
Iron Age Europe
Classical antiquity
Classical Greece
Roman Republic
Hellenistic period
Roman Empire
Early Christianity
Christianity in late antiquity
Crisis of the Third Century
Fall of the Western Roman Empire
Late antiquity
Middle Ages
Early Middle Ages
Migration Period
Christianity in the Middle Ages
Christianization
Francia
Byzantine Empire
Papal States
Bulgarian Empire
First
Second
Maritime republics
Venice
Genoa
Pisa
Amalfi
Viking Age
Kievan Rus'
Crown of Aragon
Holy Roman Empire
High Middle Ages
Republic of Florence
Feudalism
Crusades
Mongol invasion
Serbian Empire
Late Middle Ages
Hundred Years' War
Kalmar Union
Renaissance
Early modern
Christianity in the modern era
Reformation
Age of Discovery
Baroque
Grand Duchy of Tuscany
Thirty Years' War
Absolute monarchy
Ottoman Empire
Portuguese Empire
Spanish Empire
Early modern France
Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
Cossack Hetmanate
Swedish Empire
Dutch Republic
British Empire
Habsburg Monarchy
Russian Empire
Age of Enlightenment
Modern
Great Divergence
Industrial Revolution
French Revolution
Napoleonic Wars
Nationalism
Revolutions of 1848
World War I
Russian Revolution
Interwar period
World War II
Cold War
European integration
COVID-19 pandemic
See also
Art of Europe
Genetic history of Europe
History of Christianity
History of the Mediterranean region
History of the European Union
History of Western civilization
Maritime history of Europe
Military history of Europe
Authority control 
BNF: cb119813477 (data)
GND: 2003256-0
HDS: 007343
ISNI: 0000 0000 9136 7334
SUDOC: 027862372
VIAF: 166641031
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n82123664
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Holy_See&amp;oldid=980789727"
		Categories: Holy SeeHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from June 2020Articles containing Latin-language textArticles containing Italian-language textCoordinates not on WikidataOfficial website different in Wikidata and WikipediaAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2019Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textCS1 maint: ref=harvCS1: long volume valueCommons category link is on WikidataWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with HDS identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		AfrikaansالعربيةAragonésAsturianuBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKapampanganქართულიKiswahiliLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMaltiمصرىBahasa MelayuМонголNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanپنجابیPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусиньскыйРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 28 September 2020, at 13:27 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
