	Poverty Point
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the U.S. National Monument and Louisiana state historic site in the lower Mississippi valley. For the geographical feature in Massachusetts also called Poverty Point, see Fairhaven, Massachusetts.
Prehistoric site of the Poverty Point culture in northeastern Louisiana, United States
Poverty Point National MonumentA map of the Poverty Point site.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}Show map of LouisianaShow map of the United StatesLocationWest Carroll Parish, Louisiana, U.S.Nearest cityEpps, LouisianaCoordinates32°38′12″N 91°24′41″W﻿ / ﻿32.63667°N 91.41139°W﻿ / 32.63667; -91.41139Coordinates: 32°38′12″N 91°24′41″W﻿ / ﻿32.63667°N 91.41139°W﻿ / 32.63667; -91.41139Area910.85 acres (368.61 ha)[1]AuthorizedOctober 31, 1988 (1988-October-31)Governing bodyLouisiana Office of State ParksWebsitePoverty Point National Monument
UNESCO World Heritage SiteOfficial nameMonumental Earthworks of Poverty PointTypeCulturalCriteriaiiiDesignated2014 (38th session)Reference no.1435State PartyUnited StatesRegionEurope and North America
Poverty Point State Historical Site (French: Pointe de Pauvreté; 16 WC 5) is a prehistoric earthwork constructed by the Poverty Point culture.  The Poverty Point site is located in present-day northeastern Louisiana though evidence of the Poverty Point culture extends throughout much of the Southeastern Woodlands.  The culture extended 100 miles (160 km) across the Mississippi Delta and south to the Gulf Coast.  The Poverty Point site has been designated as a U.S. National Monument, a U.S. National Historic Landmark, and UNESCO World Heritage Site.[2] Located in the Southern United States, the site is 15.5 miles (24.9 km) from the current flow of the Mississippi River,[3] and is situated on the edge of Macon Ridge, near the village of Epps in West Carroll Parish, Louisiana.
The Poverty Point site contains earthen ridges and mounds, built by indigenous people between 1700 and 1100 BC during the Late Archaic period in North America.[4] Archaeologists have proposed a variety of possible functions for the site including as a settlement, a trading center, and/or a ceremonial religious complex.
The 402-acre (163 ha) property now operated as the Poverty Point State Historic Site[5] contains "the largest and most complex Late Archaic earthwork occupation and ceremonial site yet found in North America".[6] Euroamericans described the site in the 19th century.  Poverty Point has been the focus of professional archaeological excavations since the 1950s.  The earthworks are named after a 19th century plantation on the property.
Contents
1 Site description
1.1 Six C-shaped ridges
1.2 Plaza
1.3 Mound A
1.4 Mound B
1.5 Mound C
1.6 Mound D
1.7 Mound E
1.8 Mound F
1.9 Lower Jackson and Motley mounds
2 History
2.1 Construction
2.2 Purposes
2.3 Poverty Point people
2.3.1 Artifacts
3 Discovery, excavation and tourism
3.1 Discovery and archaeological excavation
3.2 Public access and site maintenance
3.3 UNESCO World Heritage Site designation
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Site description[edit]
The Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point consist of a series of earthen ridges, earthen mounds, and a central plaza. The earthworks core of the site measures about 345 acres (140 ha), although archaeological investigations have shown that the total occupation area extended for more than three miles (5 km) along the Bayou Macon.[7] The earthworks include six concentric, C-shaped ridges that extend to the edge of the Macon Ridge and several mounds outside and inside of the earthen ridges. These concentric ridges are unique to Poverty Point.[8]
Six C-shaped ridges[edit]
The main part of the monument is the six concentric C-shaped ridges. Each ridge is separated from the next by a swale or gulley. The ridges are divided by four aisles forming earthwork sectors. Three additional linear ridges or causeways connect earthen features in the southern half of the ridges. Today the ridges vary from 0.3 to 6 ft (10 –185 cm) in height relative to the adjacent swales.  Archaeologists believe they were once higher in places, but have been worn down through roughly 150 years of agricultural plowing.  The slightly rounded crest of each ridge varies from 50 – 80 ft (15–25 m) in width.  The width of the intervening swales is 65 – 100 ft (20 – 30 m). The approximate diameter of the outside ridge is three-quarters of a mile (1.2 km), while the innermost ridge's diameter is about three-eighths of a mile (0.6 km).[9] The scale of the ridges is so massive that it wasn't until researchers examined aerial photographs that they were able to recognize the geometric design.  Radiocarbon dates suggest that most of the ridges were constructed between 1600 and 1300 BC.
Plaza[edit]
Enclosed by the innermost concentric ridge and the eastern edge of Macon Ridge is a large, 37.5-acre (17.4 ha), plaza. Although the plaza appears to be a naturally flat area, it has been modified extensively. In addition to filled gullies, archaeologists found that soil was added to raise the level of the ground surface in some areas by as much as 3.3 ft (1 m). In the 1970s, excavations revealed evidence of huge wooden posts in the western plaza.[10] Later geophysical survey identified several complex circular magnetic features, ranging from about 82 ft (25 m) to 206 ft (63 m) in diameter, in the southern half of the plaza.[11] Based on the geophysical data, archaeologists with the University of Louisiana at Monroe and Mississippi State University undertook targeted excavations of some of the circular magnetic features; they found large post pits, indicating the magnetic circles were rings of wood posts. Radiocarbon dates from the post pit fill and from overlying features indicate the post circles were part of the landscape built by Native Americans, even as the earthworks were under construction.  Mound A at Poverty Point
  Steps (since removed) to top of Mound A
Mound A[edit]
The earthen mounds are the most visible earthworks at the site. The largest of these, Mound A, is 72 ft (22 m) tall at its highest point and about 705 x 660 ft (215 x 200 m) at its base.  Mound A is located to the west of the ridges, and is roughly T-shaped when viewed from above. Some have interpreted Mound A as being in the shape of a bird or as an "Earth island" representing the cosmological center of the site.[7]
Researchers have learned that Mound A was constructed quickly, probably over a period of less than three months.[7] Prior to construction, the vegetation covering the area of Mound A was burned. According to radiocarbon analysis, this burning occurred between 1450 and 1250 BC. The prehistoric builders immediately covered the burnt area with a layer of silt, followed quickly by the main construction effort. There are no signs of construction phases or weathering of the mound fill even at microscopic levels, indicating that construction proceeded in a single massive effort over a short period.[7] In total volume, Mound A is made up of approximately 8,400,000 cubic feet  (238,000 cubic meters) of fill, making it the second-largest earthen mound (by volume) in eastern North America. It is second in overall size to the later Mississippian-culture Monks Mound at Cahokia, built beginning about 950-1000 AD in present-day Illinois near the Mississippi River.[7]
Shallow borrow pits are located near Mound A. Presumably the Poverty Point people carried dirt from those borrow pits and from elsewhere on the site to build the mound.[12]
Mound B[edit]
  Mound B field
Mound B is located north and west of the six concentric ridges and 2050 ft (625 m) north of Mound A.  The mound is roughly conical in form and is approximately 21 ft (6.5 m) in height with a 180 ft (55 m) basal diameter.  Dating to sometime after 1700 BC, Mound B was the first earthwork built at Poverty Point.  Built in several stages, charcoal, fire pits, and possible postmolds were found at various levels within the mound.  The impressions of woven baskets were preserved in the fill of an upper level of the mound construction.  The final stage of the mound construction was a conical silt loam lens that covered the entire mound surface.[13] During  excavations in the mid-1950s, a human bone was reported within an ash lens at the base of the mound.  At the time, this finding was reported as evidence of a cremation.[14]  However, recent research failed to find any evidence of the ash lens.  Researchers suggest instead the reported lens represents a fine gray silt common to E horizon soils on the Macon Ridge and often found beneath mounds.[15]  The identification of the bone (reported as the proximal end of an infant's femur) has also been disputed and is not curated in any known collection from the site.[16]
Mound C[edit]
Mound C is located inside the plaza area near the eastern edge of Macon Ridge. Mound C is 6.5 ft (2 m) in height, about 260 ft (80 m) long, and today is 80 ft (25 m) wide.  The width is truncated by erosion along the eastern edge. There is a depression that divides the mound, which is thought to have been created by a 19th-century wagon road which proceeded northward to the old town of Floyd, Louisiana. Multiple radiocarbon dates for Mound C bracket the entire occupation of the site, but one radiocarbon test result from beneath the base of the mound suggests Mound C is one of the earliest constructions at the site.  Mound C is composed of several thin layers of distinct soils with small amounts of accumulated debris, or midden, between them, indicating they were added over time. The uppermost level gave the mound its final dome shape.[17]
Mound D[edit]
Mound D is a rectangular earthwork having a flat summit that today contains a historic cemetery associated with the Poverty Point Plantation.  This mound is about 4 ft (1.2 m) tall and 100 x 130 ft (30 x 40 m) at its base and is situated on one of the concentric ridges.  Several lines of evidence suggest that Mound D was built, at least in part, by the Coles Creek culture nearly 2000 years after the Poverty Point culture occupation of the site.  First, Coles Creek culture ceramics were recovered near Mound D.  Second, Coles Creek culture ceramics were recovered 40 cm below the ground surface near Mound D.[16]  Third, optically stimulated luminescence analyses on soils beneath and within the mound, which determine the date the soils were last exposed to sunlight, are consistent with a Coles Creek culture mound constructed on top of a Poverty Point ridge.[18]
Mound E[edit]
Mound E is sometimes referred to as the Ballcourt Mound.  The Ballcourt designation comes from "two shallow depressions on its flattened top which reminded some archaeologists of playing areas in front of outdoor basketball goals, not because of any suggestion of actual activities at Poverty Point."[19]
Mound E is located 1330 ft (405 m) south of Mound A and is a rectangular flat-topped structure with rounded corners and a ramp extending from the northeast corner.  Mound E is 13.4 ft (4 m) in height and 360 x 295 ft (110 x 90 m) at its base.[20]  The profile of an excavation unit on the edge of Mound E revealed five construction stages that were corroborated by series of soil cores recovered across the mound surface.  No features were recorded in the excavations and only a small number of artifacts were recovered. Several of the recovered artifacts were of nonlocal chert, such as novaculite, characteristic of the Poverty Point site raw material assemblage. [21] Until recently, dating of Mound E relied on a similarity with the construction of Mound B and their relatively similar soil development.[22]  In 2017, a small piece of charcoal was recovered in a soil core taken from the base of the mound ramp. This charcoal, from the base of the mound, provided a radiocarbon date suggesting construction sometime after 1500 BC.[23]
Mound F[edit]
A sixth mound was discovered at Poverty Point in 2013. Known as Mound F, it is located outside and to the northeast of the concentric ridges.  Mound F is about 5 ft (1.5 m) tall and 80 x 100 ft (24 by 30 m) at its base. A radiocarbon date on charred wood from the mound base indicates it was built sometime after ca 1280 BC, making it the last Archaic mound added to Poverty Point. [24]
Lower Jackson and Motley mounds[edit]
  An overview of the Poverty Point site showing the locations of the nearby Motley and Lower Jackson mounds 
Approximately 1.8 miles (2.9 km) south of the Poverty Point site center is the Lower Jackson Mound (16WC10) a conical structure 10 ft (3 m) in height and 115 ft (35 m) in diameter at its base. For many years, archaeologists believed the Lower Jackson Mound was built during the same time as the Poverty Point site.[25]  However, modern radiocarbon dates from the base of the Mound demonstrate that the Lower Jackson Mound was built ca. 3900 to 3600 BC which predates the Poverty Point earthworks by about 1500 years.  Artifacts typical of the early date, such as baked loess blocks and Evans projectile points, were recovered near the mound.[26]  Lower Jackson Mound is on the same north-south line as the later Poverty Point Mounds E, A, and B.
Approximately 1.2 miles (2.2 km) to the north of the Poverty Point earthworks is the Motley Mound (16WC7), which is 52 ft (16 m) in height with a base that measures 560 x 410 ft (170 x 125 m).  Motley Mound has some similarity in form to Mound A, however, the cultural affiliation of this earthwork remains speculative.[27]
History[edit]
Construction[edit]
  Barrels outline circular structures in the 37.5-acre (17.4 ha) plaza at Poverty Point
Poverty Point was not constructed all at once. The final form appears to have been the product of successive generations over a considerable period of time.  The exact sequence and timeframe of earthwork construction is not precisely known. Radiocarbon dating of the site has produced a wide variety of results, but recent syntheses suggest earthwork construction began as early as 1800 BC and continued until as late as 1200 BC.[28][29][30]
Archaeological excavations determined that prior to the construction of the earthworks, prehistoric workers leveled the land around the site and filled in gullies and other low places to create the flat central plaza and surfaces on which to build the mounds and ridges. The main building material was loess, a type of silt loam soil which is easy to dig but erodes when exposed to water. For this reason, clay may have been used to cap the loess constructions to protect the surfaces from erosion.[31]  The earthworks were constructed by dumping basket loads of dirt in piles and then filling in the gaps between them. The baskets, depending on the size of the bearer, could hold between 30–50 lb (13.6–22.7 kg) of dirt, suggesting that men, women, and children participated in the construction.[32]
The number of individuals involved in the construction of Poverty Point is unknown, although archaeologist Jon L. Gibson provides multiple scenarios for how long it would have taken to build the earthwork depending on the number and intensity of individual efforts.  For example, he estimated that the earthwork could have been produced in a century by three generations if one hundred individuals spent six or seven days a month on the construction project. Gibson also suggests that workers lived on-site during construction, possibly setting up temporary homes on top of the very earthworks that they were building.[33] Most archaeological excavations of the ridges at Poverty Point consist of small 3.3 ft × 3.3 ft (1 m × 1 m) units that cannot reveal the extent of an entire household. An exception is the 1980-1982 Louisiana State University excavations that explored a 16 ft × 98 ft (4.9 m × 29.9 m) trench placed on the Northwest Ridge 1. The trench excavation revealed multiple sequential levels of domestic activity over time. Archaeologists have interpreted this zone as possible evidence for more long-term habitation of the site.[34]
Changes in temperature, precipitation, and increased flooding, may have caused an ecological imbalance that led to the abandonment of Poverty Point. Archeologists use this change as a time boundary between the Archaic and later Woodland periods. [35]  
Purposes[edit]
  Artist's conception of the completely constructed site.
Archaeologists have long-debated the functions of the Poverty Point site. One of the main questions has been whether it was used for a settlement or only for periodic events. Archaeologists postulate that houses were constructed on top of the concentric ridges. Postholes along with hearths and earth ovens have been found on the ridges, indicating the presence of buildings and associated activities. Other archaeologists believe that regular residence would have produced more postholes. Gibson and others note the postholes could have been destroyed by the historic plowing that took place on much of the site and also note the limited excavations that would reveal posthole patterns of houses.[36]
Archaeologists such as Sherwood Gagliano and Edwin Jackson support the interpretation that Poverty Point was a site where groups came to meet and trade on an occasional basis.[37] Gibson believes there is evidence of too much rubbish left by original inhabitants for only occasional habitation, and that it would be implausible to build for such a massive earthwork for use only as a trading center.[38]
Some archaeologists interpret Poverty Point as having religious symbolism and importance. Archaeologist William Haag, who excavated at the site in the 1970s, interpreted the aisles that divide the ridge sectors as having astronomical significance aligned to the solstices. Astronomer Robert Purrington believes the ridges at Poverty Point were geometrically, rather than astronomically, aligned.[39] Researchers have also studied historic and contemporary Native American religious beliefs for parallels. Gibson believes that the ridges were built with their arcs against the west to keep malevolent spirits of evil and death out of the complex.[40]
Poverty Point people[edit]
  Decorative objects formed from loess soil, then fired, found at the Poverty Point site
The people of the Poverty Point culture who constructed the earthworks were hunter-fisher-gatherers rather than agriculturalists.  They are an example of a complex hunter-gatherer society that constructed large-scale monuments. The vast majority of other prehistoric monuments, ranging from Stonehenge in England to Khufu's Great Pyramid at Giza in Egypt, were constructed by agricultural societies, in which crop surpluses allowed greater density of population and stratification of society.
The people who lived at Poverty Point were Native Americans, descendants of the immigrants who came to North America across the Bering Strait land bridge approximately 12,000 to 15,000 years ago. The people identified with the Poverty Point culture developed a distinct set of cultural traits different from other contemporary inhabitants in the Lower Mississippi Valley.[41] Time, cultural change, and the lack of written records prevent researchers from identifying the people of Poverty Point as ancestors to any specific historic or modern tribe.
The food sources of the people at Poverty Point came from the local animals and plant life in the region. The Poverty Point people's food was acquired through fishing, gathering, and hunting. Poverty Point subsistence was broad-based due to the different seasonal foods that were available. Their diet consisted of large mammals like deer, small mammals like possum, various fish and turtles, mollusks, nuts, fruits, berries, and aquatic roots.[42]
Artifacts[edit]
The vast majority of artifacts recovered at Poverty Point are small, baked shapes made of loess, found in a wide variety of forms and referred to as "Poverty Point Objects" or PPOs.[43]  Except for unique specialized forms, archaeologists generally conclude the fired earth objects were used in cooking, based on the artifacts recovery context and supported by experimental archaeology. When placed in earth ovens, the objects were shown to hold heat and aid in cooking food.[44]
The inhabitants of Poverty Point produced small amounts of pottery, creating a variety of different types such as fiber-tempered, grog-tempered, and untempered with both the Wheeler and Old Floyd Tchefuncte design styles as decoration.[45] More commonly, however, they imported stone vessels made of steatite from the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains.[46]
Most of the Poverty Point tools appear to have been made on-site, as there is evidence of debris from their manufacturing process found across the ridges.[47] An analysis of artifacts recovered from the ridges demonstrates that individual ridges and sectors of the earthwork complex were used for specialized activities.  For example, based on the analysis of projectile points and production debris, the north sector of the earthwork was the favored location for manufacturing tools and the South sectors were the location where the manufactured projectile points were used as tools.  Beads, pendants and other lapidary items were recovered primarily in the West sector.  However, clay figurines are evenly distributed throughout the ridge system.[43] Based on the analysis of artifacts recovered from successive strata of ridge construction, there are clear changes in artifact styles through time.  For example, cylindrical grooved Poverty Point Objects are the earliest form of the artifact type produced and biconical forms occur later in time.[34]
There is no naturally occurring stone at Poverty Point.  Based on the distant geological sources of different kinds of stone used to make lithic artifacts recovered at Poverty Point, archaeologists conclude that the inhabitants were active in trade with other Native Americans. For example, a disproportionate number of projectile points were made from raw materials naturally occurring in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains and in the Ohio and Tennessee River valleys. Other materials derived from trade that included soapstone from the southern Appalachian Mountains of Alabama and Georgia, and galena from Missouri and Iowa. Archaeologists assumed that the presence of copper artifacts indicated trade with copper-producing tribes in the upper Great Lakes region.[48]  However, modern scientific analyses demonstrate that at least some of the copper artifacts recovered from Poverty Point were made from materials available in the southern Appalachian Mountains where soapstone or steatite vessels at Poverty Point are also sourced.[49]
Discovery, excavation and tourism[edit]
  An aerial view of the earthworks at Poverty Point. Excerpt from USDA Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service aerial photograph CTK-2BB-125. Aerial photograph taken November 11, 1960.
Discovery and archaeological excavation[edit]
In the 1830s Jacob Walter, an American explorer searching for lead ore in the area, came across Poverty Point and wrote about it in his diary:[50]
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}On my arrival at the place of my destination, on bayou Mason at which place I had been informed lead ore had been found. But on examination I soon discovered how the lead ore came to this place. &amp; with this discovery, all hope of finding a lead mine disapate  [sic]. Instead of a lead mine, I found myself on the site of an old Indian town. The surface of the earth at this place, for several acres around, were strewed in grate profusion, with fragments of Indian crockery. &amp; a large number clay made by the indians for edible purposes indicating the fact that the inhabitants who located the town were a tribe of clay eating indians. The clay balls (Poverty Point Objects) were the size of a green walnut &amp; had been baked in fire. Thus disappointed in the discovery of a lead mine, I mounted my horse. I rode out to look &amp; see what the country looked like in the vicinity of this old town site. I soon discovered a mound of colossal size (Mound A). The figure of the base of this superstructure was a rectangle twice as long as wide &amp; about 1000 long by 500 broad &amp; 150 feet in altitude with top or terrace, of 20 feet wide &amp; 500 feet long ...
The first published account of the site was in 1873 by Samuel Lockett, who served as an officer in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War. During the early 20th century, archaeologists took an interest in the site. Poverty Point was investigated and described by Clarence B. Moore in 1913, by Gerard Fowke of the Smithsonian Institution in 1926, by Clarence H. Webb in 1935, and by Michael Beckman in 1946.[51] Three excavation seasons in 1952, 1953 and 1955 were undertaken by James A. Ford and Clarence Webb, leading to the publication of Poverty Point, a Late Archaic Site in Louisiana in 1956.[52]
Excavations have continued at the site into the 21st century.  These research efforts include Sharon Goad's (1980–1982) excavation trench on Northwest Ridge 1, Jon Gibson's (1983–1995) excavations at numerous ridge locations across the site, Glen Greene's (1983–1992) research on soil development and cultural landscaping of the site, and other archaeologists conducting limited site research.  In the early 2000s T.R. Kidder and Anthony Ortmann conducted research on various mounds at the site and completed a topographic survey of the Poverty Point site.  Michael Hargrave and Berle Clay conducted a large area geophysical survey from 2006 to 2012, using magnetic gradiometry and resistivity to investigate the plaza and ridge system. Since 2006, Rinita Dalan has measured magnetic susceptibility of cores and downed cored holes to understand features identified by the gradiometer surveys as well as the construction of the ridges and plaza. The Louisiana Division of Archaeology established the Station Archaeology Program at Poverty Point in 1996 to oversee, coordinate, and conduct site research.  The program remains active and has conducted numerous excavations at the site along with curating and analyzing collections from previous excavations at Poverty Point.
Public access and site maintenance[edit]
In 1960, John Griffin, who at the time was the Southeast Regional Archaeologist for the National Park Service, suggested to the Federal government that Poverty Point be declared and established a National Monument. At first the United States Congress declined to support the protection, fearing the unpopularity of acquiring the land from local landowners,[53] but the site was designated as a National Historic Landmark on June 13, 1962.
In 1972, the State of Louisiana purchased a 400-acre (1.6 km2) section of the site. In 1976, the state opened the site to the public as the Poverty Point State Commemorative Area. The state built a museum devoted to interpreting the earthworks and the artifacts uncovered there.[54] In 1988 Congress designated the site as a U.S. National Monument.[55]
Today Poverty Point National Monument is open for visitors daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. except for Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day.[56] As the site is managed by the Louisiana Office of State Parks, a National Parks pass is not accepted for admission. Louisiana works with the Vicksburg U.S. Army Corps of Engineers division in developing plans for erosion control.[6]
In 2013, Lieutenant Governor Jay Dardenne, the ex officio head of the Louisiana Department of Culture, Recreation and Tourism, requested $750,000 in emergency state funding to limit erosion at Poverty Point. The erosion which threatens the prehistoric earthworks is caused by Harlin Bayou in the northern part of the site. The funding was approved.
UNESCO World Heritage Site designation[edit]
In January 2013, the United States Department of the Interior nominated Poverty Point for inclusion on the UNESCO World Heritage List. State Senator Francis C. Thompson of Delhi in Richland Parish said the matter is not "just a local or even state issue [but] of international importance. The prestige of having a World Heritage Site in our region and state would be of great significance both culturally and economically."[57]
On June 22, 2014, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee inscribed Poverty Point as a World Heritage Site at its meeting in Doha, Qatar. Lieutenant Governor Jay Dardenne sent a two-person delegation to Qatar to assist delegates from the U.S. Departments of the Interior and State in providing information about Poverty Point to the World Heritage Committee as they considered its nomination to the World Heritage List.  Poverty Point is now a member of this prestigious group, alongside such cultural landmarks as Stonehenge in England, the Pyramid Fields at Giza in Egypt, and the Great Wall of China. The designation made Poverty Point the first World Heritage Site in Louisiana and the 22nd in the United States.[2]
See also[edit]
Mound Builders
Poverty Point Culture
Marsden Mounds
Toltec Mounds Archaeological State Park, in Arkansas
Watson Brake
National Register of Historic Places listings in West Carroll Parish, Louisiana
List of National Historic Landmarks in Louisiana
List of World Heritage Sites in the United States
References[edit]
^ "Listing of acreage as of December 31, 2011". Land Resource Division, National Park Service. Retrieved 2012-05-14..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b Greg Hilburn. "A first for Louisiana: Poverty Point selected as World Heritage site". Monroe News-Star. Archived from the original on June 22, 2014. Retrieved June 23, 2014.
^ Milner, George R. (2004). The Moundbuilders: Ancient Peoples of Eastern North America. London: Thames &amp; Hudson Ltd.
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). The Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point (PDF). Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. p. 106.
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. p. 106.
^ a b "Poverty Point" Archived 2015-04-29 at the Wayback Machine, National Historic Landmarks Program, National Park Service
^ a b c d e Kidder, Tristram R.; Ortmann, Anthony L.; Arco, Lee J. (November 2008), "Poverty Point and the Archaeology of Singularity", Society for American Archaeology Archaeological Record, 8 (5): 9–12
^ Sassaman, Kenneth E. (2010). The Eastern Archaic, Historicized. Rowman Altamira. p. 59. ISBN 9780759119901. Retrieved 2 November 2019.
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America.
^ Haag, William G. (1990) Excavations at the Poverty Point Site: 1972-1975.  In Recent Research at the Poverty Point Site edited by Kathleen M. Byrd, Louisiana Archaeology, Number 13, pp. 1-36.
^ Hargrave, Michael L., and R. B. Clay. (2016)   Geophysical and LiDAR Investigations at the Poverty Point World Heritage Site, 16WC5. Draft report submitted to State of Louisiana, Office of Cultural Development, Division of Archaeology.   
^ Driving Guide, "Poverty Point State Historic Site, Epps, Louisiana", p. 4
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. pp. 30–32.
^ Ford, J. A. and C. H. Webb (1956)  Poverty Point, A Late Archaic Site in Louisiana.  Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History, vol. 46, Pt 1,  New York.
^ KIdder, Tristram R., Anthony Ortmann and Thurman Allen.  2004. Testing Mounds B and E at Poverty Poiint. Southeastern Archaeology 23:98-113
^ a b Connolly, Robert P. Poverty Point Research Design(2003:17)
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. pp. 38–40.
^ Feathers, James. K. and Sehar Sheikh. (2012) Luminescence Dating for Mound D at Poverty Point, Louisiana. Unpublished report on file, Poverty Point Station Archaeology Program, Epps, LA.   
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 85
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. p. 33.
^ Kidder, T.R., Anthony Ortmann and Thurman Allen (2004). "Testing Mounds B and E at Poverty Point". Southeastern Archaeology. 23: 98–113.CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Greenlee, Diana (2011)  Annual Report of the Station Archaeology Program at the Poverty Point State Historic Site.  Unpublished report submitted to the United States National Park Service.
^ Greenlee (2017) New Investigations of Poverty Point’s Enigmatic Mound E. Preservation in Print 44(9):8-9.
^ Ellerbe, Jenny and Diana M. Greenlee (2015).  Poverty Point: Revealing the Forgotten City.  Louisiana State University Press.
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. p. 27.
^ Joe Saunders;  et al. (2001). "An Assessment of the Antiquity of the Lower Jackson Mound". Southeastern Archaeology. 20: 67–77.
^ U.S. Department of the Interior (2013). Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point. Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America. p. 29.
^ Connolly, Robert P. "An Assessment of Radiocarbon Age Results from the Poverty Point Site". 2006. Louisiana Archaeology, Volume 28, pp. 1-14.
^ "Poverty Point : Plaza". Louisiana Division of Archaeology. Retrieved 2017-12-20.
^ Greenlee, Diana. "Poverty Point". Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities. Retrieved 2017-12-20.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 91-92.
^ Gibson, Jon L. 2000. Ancient Mounds Of Poverty Point: Place Of Rings (Native Peoples, Cultures, And Places Of The Southeastern United States). E-Book. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 103-109.
^ a b Connolly, Robert (2002). "The 1980-1982 Excavations on the Northwest Ridge 1 at the Poverty Point Site". Louisiana Archaeology. 25: 1–92.
^ Snow, Dean R. (2010).Archaeology of Native North America. New York: Prentice Hall. p. 95.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 100-103.
^ Jackson, Edwin (1991). "The Trade Fair in Hunter-Gatherer Interaction: The Role of Intersocietal Trade in the Evolution of Poverty Point Culture".  In Gregg, Susan A. (ed.). In Between Bands and States. Occasional Paper No. 9. Center for Archaeological Investigations, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale. pp. 265–286.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 106-108.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 30.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 108-109.
^ Gibson, Jon L. 2000. Ancient Mounds Of Poverty Point: Place Of Rings (Native Peoples, Cultures, And Places Of The Southeastern United States). E-Book. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida.
^ Greenlee, Diana "Poverty Point", In knowlouisiana.org Encyclopedia of Louisiana, edited by David Johnson. Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities, 2010–, 19 November 2014. http://www.knowlouisiana.org/entry/poverty-point-7.
^ a b Connolly, Robert (2008). "Scratching the Surface: The Role of Surface Collections in Solving the "Mystery" of Poverty Point". Louisiana Archaeology. 35: 79–115.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, pp. 112-116.
^ Christopher Hays and Richard Weinstein (2004). Early Pottery at Poverty Point: Origins and Function. In Early Pottery: Technology, Function, style, and Interaction in the Lower Southeast edited by Rebecca Saunders and Christopher Hays, University of Alabama Press. pp. 150–168.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 121.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p.112
^ Gibson, Jon (1994). "Over the Mountain and Across the Sea: Regional Poverty Point Exchange". Louisiana Archaeology. 17: 251–299.
^ Hill, Mark A., Diana M. Greenlee and Hector Neff (2016). "Assessing the provenance of Poverty point Copper through LA-ICP-MS compositional analysis". Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports. 6: 351–360. doi:10.1016/j.jasrep.2016.02.030.CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Connolly, Robert (1997). 1997 Annual Report: Station Archaeology Program at the Poverty Point State Commemorative Area. Report on file, Louisiana Division of Archaeology, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 16-17.
^ Ford, James and Clarence Webb (1956). Poverty Point: A Late Archaic Site in Louisiana. Anthropological Papers Volume 46, Part 1. New York, New York: American Museum of Natural History.
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 5
^ Gibson, Jon L. (2000). The Ancient Mounds of Poverty Point: Place of Rings. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida, p. 4
^ "The National Parks: Index 2009–2011". National Park Service.
^ Louisiana – Department of Culture, Recreation &amp; Tourism Archived 2009-02-07 at the Wayback Machine
^ Greg Hilburn. "Geopolitics threaten Poverty Point's fate: US in arrears to UNESCO, which decides World Heritage Sites, July 16, 2013". The Monroe News-Star. Retrieved July 17, 2013.
External links[edit]
National Park Service: Poverty Point National Monument website
State of Louisiana: Poverty Point State Historic Site
Poverty Point, booklet published by the Louisiana Division of Archaeology
"Travels with Phil" video of site from 2016
U.S. Department of the Interior, 2013  Monumental Earthworks of Poverty Point.  Nomination to the World Heritage List by the United States of America.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Poverty Point.
vte Pre-Columbian North America
.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}Periods
Lithic
Archaic
Formative
Classic
Post-Classic
Archaeological cultures
Adena
Alachua
Ancient Beringian
Ancestral Pueblo (Anasazi)
Baytown
Belle Glade
Buttermilk Creek Complex
Caborn-Welborn
Calf Creek
Caloosahatchee
Clovis
Coles Creek
Comondú
Deptford
Folsom
Fort Ancient
Fort Walton
Fremont
Glacial Kame
Glades
Hohokam
Hopewell
List of Hopewell sites
La Jolla
Las Palmas
Leon-Jefferson
Maritime Archaic
Mississippian
List of Mississippian sites
Mogollon
Monongahela
Old Cordilleran
Oneota
Paleo-Arctic
Paleo-Indians
Patayan
Plano
Plaquemine
Poverty Point
Red Ocher
Safety Harbor Culture
Santa Rosa-Swift Creek
St. Johns
Steed-Kisker
Tchefuncte
Troyville
Weeden Island
Archaeologicalsites
Angel Mounds
Anzick Clovis burial
Bandelier National Monument
Bastian
Benson
Blue Spring Shelter
The Bluff Point Stoneworks
Brewster
Cahokia
Candelaria Cave
Casa Grande
Chaco Canyon
Coso Rock Art District
Crystal River Archaeological State Park
Cuarenta Casas
Cueva de la Olla
Eaker
El Fin del Mundo
El Vallecito
Effigy Mounds National Monument
Etowah Indian Mounds
Eva
Folsom Site
Fort Ancient
Fort Center
Fort Juelson
Four Mounds
Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument
Glenwood
Grimes Point
Holly Bluff Site
Hopewell Culture National Historical Park
Horr's Island
Huápoca
Key Marco
Kimball Village
Kincaid Mounds
Kolomoki Mounds
Lake Jackson Mounds
L'Anse aux Meadows
Marksville
Marmes Rockshelter
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
Mesa Verde
Moaning Cavern
Moorehead Circle
Morrison Mounds
Moundville
Mummy Cave
Nodena Site
Ocmulgee National Monument
Old Stone Fort
Orwell Site
Paquime
Parkin Park
Pinson Mounds
Portsmouth Earthworks
Poverty Point
Pueblo Bonito
Recapture Canyon
Rock Eagle
Rock Hawk
Rosenstock Village Site
Russell Cave National Monument
Salmon Ruins
Serpent Mound
Sierra de San Francisco
Spiro Mounds
SunWatch
Taos Pueblo
Toltec Mounds
Town Creek Indian Mound
Turkey River Mounds
Upward Sun River site
Velda Mound
West Oak Forest Earthlodge
Windover
Winterville
Wupatki National MonumentHumanremains
Anzick-1
Arlington Springs Man
Buhl Woman
Kennewick Man
La Brea Woman
Leanderthal Lady
Melbourne Man
Minnesota Woman
Peñon woman
Spirit Cave mummy
Vero man
Miscellaneous
Aridoamerica
Black drink
Ceremonial pipe
Chunkey
Clovis point
Container Revolution
Eastern Agricultural Complex
Eden point
Effigy mound
Falcon dancer
Folsom point
Green Corn Ceremony
Horned Serpent
Kiva
Medicine wheel
Metallurgy
Mi'kmaq hieroglyphic writing
Mound Builders
N.A.G.P.R.A.
Norse colonization of North America
Oasisamerica
Piasa
Southeastern Ceremonial Complex
Stickball
Three Sisters agriculture
Thunderbird
Underwater panther
Water glyphs
Related
Genetic history
Pre-Columbian era
vteProtected areas of LouisianaFederalNational Historical Parks
Cane River Creole
Jean Lafitte NHP and Preserve
New Orleans Jazz
National Monuments
Poverty Point
National Marine Sanctuary
Flower Garden Banks
National Forests
Kisatchie
National WildlifeRefuge System
Atchafalaya
Bayou Cocodrie
Bayou Sauvage
Bayou Teche
Big Branch Marsh
Black Bayou Lake
Bogue Chitto
Breton
Cameron Prairie
Cat Island
Catahoula
D'Arbonne
Delta
East Cove
Grand Cote
Handy Brake
Lacassine
Lake Ophelia
Mandalay
Red River
Shell Keys
Sabine
Tensas River
Upper Ouachita
StateState Parks
Bayou Segnette
Bogue Chitto
Chemin-A-Haut
Chicot
Cypremort Point
Fairview-Riverside
Fontainebleau
Grand Isle
Hodges Gardens
Jimmie Davis
Lake Bistineau
Lake Bruin
Lake Claiborne
Lake D-Arbonne
Lake Fausse Pointe
North Toledo Bend
Palmetto Island
Poverty Point Reservoir
St. Bernard
Sam Houston Jones
South Toledo Bend
Tickfaw
State Historic Sites
Audubon
Centenary
Fort Jesup
Fort Pike
Fort St. Jean Baptiste
Forts Randolph &amp; Buhlow
Locust Grove
Longfellow-Evangeline
Los Adaes
Mansfield
Marksville
Plaquemine Lock
Port Hudson
Poverty Point
Rebel State
Rosedown Plantation
Winter Quarters
State Preservation Area
Louisiana State Arboretum
State Forests
Alexander
Indian Creek
State Wildlife Refuges
Elmer's Island
Marsh Island
Rockefeller
St. Tammany
State
Terrebonne Barrier Islands
White Lake Wetlands
Wildlife management areas
Acadiana Conservation Corridor
Atchafalaya Delta
Attakapas
Barataria Preserve
Bayou Macon
Bayou Pierre
Ben Lilly Conservation Area
Ben's Creek
Big Colewa Bayou
Big Lake
Biloxi
Bodcau
Boeuf
Bonnet Carré Spillway
Buckhorn
Camp Beauregard
Catahoula Lake
Clear Creek
Dewey Wills
Elbow Slough
Elm Hall
Floy Ward McElroy
Fort Polk
Grassy Lake
Hutchinson Creek
Indian Bayou
Jackson Bienville
Joyce
Lake Boeuf
Lake Ramsey Savannah
Little River
Loggy Bayou
Manchac
Marsh Bayou
Maurepas Swamp
Old River Control
Ouachita
Pass A Loutre
Pearl River
Peason Ridge
Pointe-aux-Chenes
Pomme de Terre
Red River
Russell Sage
Sabine Island
Sabine
Salvador/Timken
Sandy Hollow
Sherburne (See: Atchafalaya Delta)
J. C. "Sonny" Gilbert Wildlife Management Area
Soda Lake
Spring Bayou
Tangipahoa Parish School Board
Thistlethwaite
Three Rivers
Tunica Hills
Union
Walnut Hill
West Bay
OtherPrivate
Bird City
Paul J. Rainey Wildlife Sanctuary
City
Bluebonnet Swamp Nature Center
Louisiana Department of Culture, Recreation &amp; Tourism (web)
Louisiana Department of Agriculture &amp; Forestry (web)
Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries (web)
vteNational monuments of the United States
Admiralty Island
African Burial Ground
Agate Fossil Beds
Agua Fria
Aleutian Islands World War II
Alibates Flint Quarries
Aniakchak
Aztec Ruins
Bandelier
Basin and Range
Bears Ears
Belmont-Paul Women's Equality
Berryessa Snow Mountain
Birmingham Civil Rights
Booker T. Washington
Browns Canyon
Buck Island Reef
Cabrillo
California Coastal
Canyon de Chelly
Canyons of the Ancients
Cape Krusenstern
Capulin Volcano
Carrizo Plain
Casa Grande Ruins
Cascade–Siskiyou
Castillo de San Marcos
Castle Clinton
Castle Mountains
Cedar Breaks
César E. Chávez
Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers
Chimney Rock
Chiricahua
Colorado
Craters of the Moon
Devils Postpile
Devils Tower
Dinosaur
Effigy Mounds
El Malpais
El Morro
Florissant Fossil Beds
Fort Frederica
Fort Matanzas
Fort McHenry
Fort Monroe
Fort Ord
Fort Pulaski
Fort Stanwix
Fort Sumter
Fort Union
Fossil Butte
Freedom Riders
George Washington Birthplace
George Washington Carver
Giant Sequoia
Gila Cliff Dwellings
Gold Butte
Governors Island
Grand Canyon–Parashant
Grand Portage
Grand Staircase-Escalante
Hagerman Fossil Beds
Hanford Reach
Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad
Hohokam Pima
Homestead
Honouliuli
Hovenweep
Ironwood Forest
Jewel Cave
John Day Fossil Beds
Jurassic
Kasha-Katuwe Tent Rocks
Katahdin Woods and Waters
Lava Beds
Little Bighorn Battlefield
Marianas Trench Marine
Military Working Dog Teams
Misty Fjords
Mojave Trails
Montezuma Castle
Mount St. Helens
Muir Woods
Natural Bridges
Navajo
Newberry
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts
Oregon Caves
Organ Pipe Cactus
Organ Mountains–Desert Peaks
Pacific Remote Islands Marine
Papahānaumokuākea Marine
Petroglyph
Pipe Spring
Pipestone
Pompeys Pillar
Poverty Point
Prehistoric Trackways
President Lincoln's Cottage at the Soldiers' Home
Pullman
Rainbow Bridge
Río Grande del Norte
Rose Atoll Marine
Russell Cave
Salinas Pueblo Missions
San Gabriel Mountains
San Juan Islands
Sand to Snow
Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains
Scotts Bluff
Sonoran Desert
Statue of Liberty
Stonewall
Sunset Crater Volcano
Timpanogos Cave
Tonto
Tule Lake
Tule Springs Fossil Beds
Tuzigoot
Upper Missouri River Breaks
Vermilion Cliffs
Virgin Islands Coral Reef
Waco Mammoth
Walnut Canyon
Wupatki
Yucca House
Full Detailed List
vtePrehistoric technology
Prehistory
Timeline
Outline
Stone Age
Subdivisions
New Stone Age
Technology
history
Glossary
ToolsFarming
Neolithic Revolution
founder crops
New World crops
Ard / plough
Celt
Digging stick
Domestication
Goad
Irrigation
Secondary products
Sickle
Terracing
Food processing
Fire
Basket
Cooking
Earth oven
Granaries
Grinding slab
Ground stone
Hearth
Aşıklı Höyük
Qesem cave
Manos
Metate
Mortar and pestle
Pottery
Quern-stone
Storage pit
Hunting
Arrow
Boomerang
throwing stick
Bow and arrow
history
Nets
Spear
Spear-thrower
baton
harpoon
woomera
Schöningen spears
Projectile points
Arrowhead
Bare Island
Cascade
Clovis
Cresswell
Cumberland
Eden
Folsom
Lamoka
Manis Site
Plano
Transverse arrowhead
Systems
Game drive system
Buffalo jump
Toolmaking
Earliest toolmaking
Oldowan
Acheulean
Mousterian
Aurignacian
Clovis culture
Cupstone
Fire hardening
Gravettian culture
Hafting
Hand axe
Grooves
Langdale axe industry
Levallois technique
Lithic core
Lithic reduction
analysis
debitage
flake
Lithic technology
Magdalenian culture
Metallurgy
Microblade technology
Mining
Prepared-core technique
Solutrean industry
Striking platform
Tool stone
Uniface
Yubetsu technique
Other tools
Adze
Awl
bone
Axe
Bannerstone
Blade
prismatic
Bone tool
Bow drill
Burin
Canoe
Oar
Pesse canoe
Chopper
tool
Cleaver
Denticulate tool
Fire plough
Fire-saw
Hammerstone
Knife
Microlith
Quern-stone
Racloir
Rope
Scraper
side
Stone tool
Tally stick
Weapons
Wheel
illustration
ArchitectureCeremonial
Göbekli Tepe
Kiva
Standing stones
megalith
row
Stonehenge
Pyramid
Dwellings
Neolithic architecture
British megalith architecture
Nordic megalith architecture
Burdei
Cave
Cliff dwelling
Dugout
Hut
Quiggly hole
Jacal
Longhouse
Mud brick
Mehrgarh
Neolithic long house
Pit-house
Pueblitos
Pueblo
Rock shelter
Blombos Cave
Abri de la Madeleine
Sibudu Cave
Stone roof
Roundhouse
Stilt house
Alp pile dwellings
Wattle and daub
Water management
Check dam
Cistern
Flush toilet
Reservoir
Well
Other architecture
Archaeological features
Broch
Burnt mound
fulacht fiadh
Causewayed enclosure
Tor enclosure
Circular enclosure
Goseck
Cursus
Henge
Thornborough
Oldest surviving buildings
Megalithic architectural elements
Midden
Timber circle
Timber trackway
Sweet Track
Arts and cultureMaterial goods
Baskets
Beadwork
Beds
Chalcolithic
Clothing/textiles
timeline
Cosmetics
Glue
Hides
shoes
Ötzi
Jewelry
amber use
Mirrors
Pottery
Cardium
Cord-marked
Grooved ware
Linear
Jōmon
Unstan ware
Sewing needle
Weaving
Wine
Winery
wine press
Prehistoric art
Art of the Upper Paleolithic
Art of the Middle Paleolithic
Blombos Cave
List of Stone Age art
Bird stone
Bradshaw rock paintings
Cairn
Carved stone balls
Cave paintings
painting
pigment
Cup and ring mark
Geoglyph
Golden hats
Guardian stones
Megalithic art
Petroform
Petroglyph
Petrosomatoglyph
Pictogram
Rock art
Rock cupule
Stone carving
Sculpture
Statue menhir
Stone circle
list
British Isles and Brittany
Venus figurines
Burial
Burial mounds
Bowl barrow
Round barrow
Mound Builders culture
U.S. sites
Chamber tomb
Cotswold-Severn
Cist
Dartmoor kistvaens
Clava cairn
Court tomb
Cremation
Dolmen
Great dolmen
Funeral pyre
Gallery grave
transepted
wedge-shaped
Grave goods
Jar burial
Long barrow
unchambered
Grønsalen
Megalithic tomb
Mummy
Passage grave
Rectangular dolmen
Ring cairn
Simple dolmen
Stone box grave
Tor cairn
Tumulus
Unchambered long cairn
Other cultural
Astronomy
sites
lunar calendar
Behavioral modernity
Origin of language
trepanning
Prehistoric medicine
Evolutionary musicology
music archaeology
Prehistoric music
Alligator drum
flutes
Divje Babe flute
gudi
Prehistoric numerals
Origin of religion
Paleolithic religion
Prehistoric religion
Spiritual drug use
Prehistoric warfare
Symbols
symbolism
vteU.S. National Register of Historic PlacesTopics
Architectural style categories
Contributing property
Historic district
History of the National Register of Historic Places
Keeper of the Register
National Park Service
Property types
Lists by state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Lists by insular areas
American Samoa
Guam
Minor Outlying Islands
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
Virgin Islands
Lists by associated state
Federated States of Micronesia
Marshall Islands
Palau
Other areas
District of Columbia
Morocco
Related
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966
Historic Preservation Fund
 Portal
 Category
vteWorld Heritage Sites in the United StatesNortheast
Independence Hall
Statue of Liberty
Midwest
Cahokia
South
Everglades
Great Smoky Mountains
Mammoth Cave
Monticello and the University of Virginia
Poverty Point
San Antonio Missions
West
Carlsbad Caverns
Chaco Culture National Historical Park
Grand Canyon National Park
Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park
Kluane-Wrangell–St. Elias-Glacier Bay-Tatshenshini-Alsek1
Mesa Verde
Olympic National Park
Pueblo de Taos
Papahānaumokuākea
Redwood
Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park1
Yellowstone National Park
Yosemite National Park
Multiple Locations
The 20th-Century Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright
Territories
La Fortaleza and San Juan National Historic Site in Puerto Rico
1 Shared with Canada
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Poverty_Point&amp;oldid=980354970"
		Categories: Poverty Point cultureMounds in LouisianaNational Park Service National Monuments in LouisianaArchaeological museums in LouisianaMuseums in West Carroll Parish, LouisianaNative American museums in LouisianaArchaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in LouisianaLouisiana State Historic SitesNational Historic Landmarks in LouisianaNational Register of Historic Places in West Carroll Parish, LouisianaProtected areas of West Carroll Parish, LouisianaArchaic period in North AmericaMound builders (people)1st millennium BC2nd millennium BCWorld Heritage Sites in the United StatesPyramids in the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataCoordinates on WikidataArticles containing French-language textCommons category link is on WikidataAC with 0 elements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		CatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolFrançaisHrvatskiItalianoעבריתქართულიLa .lojban.NederlandsPolskiPortuguêsSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeTiếng Việt
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 26 September 2020, at 02:11 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
