	Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Klondike Gold Rush National Historical ParkIUCN category III (natural monument or feature)White Pass &amp; Yukon Route Railway Administration Building serves as a museum.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}LocationAlaska and Washington, United StatesNearest citySkagway, Alaska and Seattle, WashingtonCoordinates59°34′31″N 135°15′49″W﻿ / ﻿59.57537°N 135.26367°W﻿ / 59.57537; -135.26367Coordinates: 59°34′31″N 135°15′49″W﻿ / ﻿59.57537°N 135.26367°W﻿ / 59.57537; -135.26367Area12,996 acres (52.59 km2)[1]EstablishedJune 30, 1976 (1976-June-30)Visitors860,048 (in 2011)[2]Governing bodyNational Park ServiceWebsiteKlondike Gold Rush National Historical ParkKlondike Goldrush National Historical ParkU.S. National Register of Historic PlacesU.S. Historic districtAlaska Heritage Resources Survey
LocationUnion of Chilkoot Trail and Dyea Site and Skagway Historic District and White PassNRHP reference No.76002189[3]AHRS No.SKG-086Added to NRHPJune 30, 1976
  Welcome sign
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park is a national historical park operated by the National Park Service that seeks to commemorate the Klondike Gold Rush of the late 1890s. Though the gold fields that were the ultimate goal of the stampeders lay in the Yukon Territory, the park comprises staging areas for the trek there and the routes leading in its direction. There are four units, including three in Municipality of Skagway Borough, Alaska and a fourth in the Pioneer Square National Historic District in Seattle, Washington.
A fuller appreciation of the story of the Klondike Gold Rush requires exploration and discovery on both sides of the Canada–United States border. National historic sites in Whitehorse and Dawson City, Yukon, as well as in British Columbia, complete the story. In 1998, Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park joined with Chilkoot Trail National Historic Site, Dawson Historical Complex National Historic Site, and "The Thirty Mile" stretch of the Yukon River to create Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park, allowing for an integrated binational experience.
Contents
1 Historic Skagway
2 White Pass Trail
3 Dyea Townsite and Chilkoot Trail
4 Seattle unit
5 International Park
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
Historic Skagway[edit]
Main article: Klondike Gold Rush
  NPS and other buildings in the Skagway Historic District
  The old depot now functions as the NPS Visitors Center
  Visitors on a ranger-guided tour of Jeff. Smith's Parlor Museum opened in April 2016
  Younger visitors can earn their Junior Ranger badge at the restored Pantheon
The Skagway unit includes much of the historic downtown such as buildings owned and restored by NPS and others, some leased even today for ordinary commercial purposes to recreate the city's bustling activity. The visitor center in Skagway is located in railroad depot building at Second and Broadway and is a good place to begin tours either led by a ranger or self-guided. Junior rangers can plan their activities further and earn their badges further up Broadway at the Pantheon Saloon.[4]
White Pass &amp; Yukon Route Railway Broadway Depot. Corner of 2nd Avenue and Broadway. Now serving as the park's Visitors Center and Headquarters, the depot was the first building the railway built for this purpose, completed in December 1898. The structure served this purpose at least until the 1950s. However, together with the adjoining administration building and the railway itself, these were taken over by the U.S. Army Railway Operating Battalion from 1942 to 1946 to supply construction of the Alaska Highway, the first land route to Alaska, then under construction in adjoining British Columbia and Yukon Territory as part of the war effort. It was the only commercial railway in the United States taken over for this purpose. The building was transferred to NPS in 1976 with restoration completed in 1984, returning its appearance to the 1908-1915 time period.[5]
White Pass &amp; Yukon Route Railway Administration Building. 2nd Avenue, east of Broadway. The bottom floor houses the park museum while additional park offices are located upstairs. Located next to the depot, the Daily Alaskan noted during the year of its completion in its May 3, 1900 edition that it the railway's headquarters was "by far the finest wooden structure in the city". As with the depot, it was vacated in 1969, transferred to NPS in 1976, with restoration completed in 1984.[6]
Martin Itjen's House. Broadway between 1st Avenue and 2nd Avenue. The building serves as the NPS and Parks Canada Trail Center, and is one of the first structures visitors to the park arriving by ship see. Originally it stood on piers by the wharf, completed in 1902, and is reminiscent of homes built for railway employees. In 1922, it was sold to Martin Itjen who had learned to profit from the summer tourist trade by greeting passers-by and selling tours of the town's attractions. Relocation of railway tracks in 1946 isolated the house, which after two intermediate moves ended up on Sixth. NPS acquired the structure in 1978, moving it to its current position 300 feet (92 m) west of its original location. Restoration was completed in 1991 to return the home to the 1921-1941 period.[7]
Jeff. Smith's Parlor. 2nd Avenue west of Broadway. The building was most famously used as a base of operations by con man and outlaw Jefferson "Soapy" Smith who ended up in Alaska by way of Denver. He and his gang defrauded and tricked miners for only three months before Smith was shot to death in spectacular fashion on the Skagway wharf. Martin Itjen bought the saloon in 1922, and outfitted it as a museum with animatronic figures of Soapy Smith and his associates. Even after selling it in 1950, the museum remained in operation until 1986. Donated to NPS in 2007, the building was refurbished to its old glory as it would have been seen by visitors back in 1967, and reopened in April 2016.[8]
Verbauwhede's Cigar Store, Confectionery, and Cribs. Broadway between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue. Frederick Verbauwhede originally opened a store selling cigars and confections here in 1898, and in 1902 moved one-story "cribs" behind the store from their previous location between Fourth and Fifth where they housed prostitutes. A gunsmith, jeweler, gas station and travel agency occupied the premises at one time or another through 1977 when NPS purchased the buildings. Restored in 1986, the cigar store is leased to a private business while the cribs are used by the park's law enforcement operations.[9]
Boas Tailor &amp; Furrier Shop. Broadway between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue. As the name implies, it was formerly, though briefly, a furrier, topped by a traditional high wooden false front as seen in other western towns in the United States and Canada. After a series of other business, it was sold to NPS in 1978 with period restoration completed in 1986. It is now leased to private business to encourage a feeling of Skagway as a center of bustling business activity.[10]
Pacific Clipper Line Office. Broadway near 3rd Avenue. First serving the considerable steamship trade that brought passengers to Skagway that lack other means of access, the building later became a liquor store before Skagway was hit by municipal prohibition in 1916 and other uses were found for it. NPS acquired the building in 1976, and after restoration began leasing it to private business in 1990.[11]
Mascot Saloon. Corner of Broadway and 3rd Avenue. The saloon opened in 1898 and unlike few others survived as bar through prohibition in Skagway in 1916. After that it was used as a drugstore and for other purposes until it was transferred to NPS in 1976. It was restored to its post-rush period appearance and reopened as an exhibit in 1990.[12]
Lynch and Kennedy Dry Goods Store. Broadway between 3rd Avenue and 4th Avenue. Originally built in 1900 as barracks for the all-black Company L 24th Infantry. The building was moved from Sixth to Broadway and a false front was added in order to open a haberdashery and dry goods store in the location in September 1908. The Daily Alaskan described the store as "just about the most handsomest in the city". All the same it closed by 1920, and thereafter served variously as a restaurant and again as barracks before being purchased by NPS in 1977. Restoration was completed in 1990, returning it to the 1908-1915 time period. It is leased to a private business.[13]
Pantheon Saloon. Corner of Broadway and 4th Avenue. Though a hardware store in 1898, the Pantheon became a saloon in 1903 and stayed in business until municipal prohibition in 1916. It served varied functions before being sold to NPS in 1977. Now restored to its 1903-1916 appearance, the Pantheon invites in young visitors to explore the park and earn their Junior Ranger patches.[14]
Moore Homestead. Between 5th Avenue and 6th Avenue, east of Broadway. The first homestead in Skagway, which predates the gold rush era.[15]
Peniel Mission. Eastern end of 6th Avenue. Originally a Christian mission, now used as modest housing for the park's seasonal employees.[16]
White Pass Trail[edit]
Main article: White Pass Trail
The park includes as one of its units the White Pass Trail. White Pass is a mountain pass that leads from Skagway to the headwaters of the Yukon River in British Columbia. The trail was one of the two main routes used by prospectors to get from Skagway over the Boundary Range on their way to the gold fields in the Yukon. The White Pass and Yukon Route railway, completed in 1900, used White Pass to bring prospectors from Skagway to Whitehorse, Yukon.
Dyea Townsite and Chilkoot Trail[edit]
Main article: Chilkoot Trail and Dyea Site
The historic townsite of Dyea is also part of the historical park, from which the Chilkoot Trail leaves and runs to Bennett Lake in British Columbia. From there, prospectors generally rafted to Dawson City, Yukon. The trail center in Skagway, operated by both the National Park Service and Parks Canada, has information regarding current conditions along the Chilkoot Trail as it travels through both countries. A permit is required to hike the 33-mile (53-kilometer) trail.
Seattle unit[edit]
.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{display:flex;flex-direction:column}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{display:flex;flex-direction:row;clear:left;flex-wrap:wrap;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{margin:1px;float:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .theader{clear:both;font-weight:bold;text-align:center;align-self:center;background-color:transparent;width:100%}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbcaption{background-color:transparent}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-left{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-right{text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .text-align-center{text-align:center}@media all and (max-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .tmulti .thumbinner{width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;max-width:none!important;align-items:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow{justify-content:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle{float:none!important;max-width:100%!important;box-sizing:border-box;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .tsingle .thumbcaption{text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .tmulti .trow>.thumbcaption{text-align:center}}Buildings of Seattle unitThe park's Seattle Visitor's Center at the Cadillac HotelPrior location of the Visitor's Center in the Union Trust Annex (at right)
An integral part of the park is the Visitor's Center in Seattle, Washington, in the Pioneer Square National Historic District. It functions as an interpretive center and museum, and also has information on how to visit the Skagway units of the park. It opened June 2, 1979,[17] and was originally located in the Union Trust Annex (built 1902),[18] across Main Street from Occidental Park.[19]
The Seattle unit is now located in an 1889 building, the Cadillac Hotel at 319 Second Avenue South. The Cadillac Hotel building was a major point of outfitting and departure during the gold rush stampede. Severely damaged in the 2001 Nisqually earthquake, it was rehabilitated 2004–2005 as home to the Seattle unit of the park, and was opened and dedicated on June 26, 2006.[20][21] The National Park Travelers Club held its 2014 convention at Klondike Gold Rush.[22]
International Park[edit]
  Formerly Boss Bakery, Chilikoot Trail hikers should pick up their permits here, at 520 Broadway in Skagway, and register for Customs, at a Trail Center jointly staffed by National Park Service and Parks Canada personnel
In 1969, the United States and Canadian governments jointly declared their intention to make Chilkoot Trail a component of a Klondike Gold Rush International Historic Park. The U.S. portion was eventually established in 1976 as part of Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park.
The Canadian portion of the trail became Chilkoot Trail National Historic Site, one of several sites in the national park system associated with the Klondike. But it was not until the centennial of the gold rush, in 1998, that the dream of an international park was realized, when Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park and Chilkoot Trail National Historic Site were declared to constitute jointly the Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park.[23] Their previous legal names were retained, while the new name reflected co-operative management between the two park services, and the formalization of relations which had in fact been going on for years.
Beyond this, joint resolutions recognize the relevance to gold rush interpretation of the Dawson Historical Complex National Historic Site, in Dawson City, Yukon, which includes significant buildings. Parks Canada identifies Dawson City as a unit of the international park,[24] as well as "The Thirty Mile" section of the Yukon River, a national heritage river from Lake Laberge to the Teslin River. The river has been recognized by both countries as part of their joint interpretative efforts.[25]
Beyond the formal international historical park are national historic sites in Yukon concerned with the gold rush: 
Discovery Claim National Historic Site (NHS)
SS Keno NHS
Dredge No. 4 NHS
SS Klondike NHS
Yukon Hotel NHS
Canadian Bank of Commerce NHS
Former Territorial Court House NHS
Old Territorial Administration Building NHS
See also[edit]
National Register of Historic Places listings in Skagway, Alaska
References[edit]
^ "Listing of acreage as of December 31, 2011". Land Resource Division, National Park Service. Retrieved 2012-03-19..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "NPS Annual Recreation Visits Report". National Park Service. Retrieved 2012-12-14.
^ "National Register Information System". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. July 9, 2010.
^ "Nomination Form for Klondike Goldrush National Historical Park". Retrieved June 5, 2017.
^ "White Pass &amp; Yukon Route Railway Broadway Depot". NPS. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "White Pass &amp; Yukon Route Administration Building". NPS. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "Martin Itjen's House". NPS. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "Jeff. Smith's Parlor Museum". NPS. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "Verbauwhede's Cigars, Confections and Cribs". NPS. Retrieved 16 May 2016.
^ "Boas Tailor &amp; Furrier Shop". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Pacific Clipper Line Office and Hern Liquor Store". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Mascot Saloon". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Lynch and Kennedy". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Pantheon and the Red Front Building". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Moore Homestead". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ "Peniel Mission". NPS. Retrieved 17 May 2016.
^ Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, Administrative History, Chapter 12: Operation of the Seattle Visitor Center. Accessed online 2007-11-26.
^ Summary for 117 S Main ST S / Parcel ID 5247800365, Seattle Department of Neighborhoods. Accessed online 2007-11-26.
^ Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, Administrative History, Chapter 11: Establishing the Seattle Unit. Accessed online 2007-11-26.
^ Cadillac Hotel rehabilitation Archived 2008-07-08 at the Wayback Machine after the 2001 earthquake, on the site of Historic Seattle. Accessed online 2007-11-26.
^ Summary for 319 2nd AVE / Parcel ID 5247800715, Seattle Department of Neighborhoods. (Same building, even though they accidentally omitted "South" from the address.) Accessed online 2007-11-26.
^ National Park Travelers Club 2014 Convention Preview. NPTC. Retrieved 2013-07-13.
^ Clinton, William. "Proclamation 7114 - Designating Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park (August 5,1998)". Retrieved 31 May 2016.
^ Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park, Parks Canada
^ The Thirty Mile (Yukon River) National Heritage River Archived 2011-01-06 at the Wayback Machine, National Heritage Rivers System
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park.
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, Alaska
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park, Seattle
Klondike Gold Rush International Historical Park, Alaska &amp; British Columbia
Chilkoot Trail National Historic Site, British Columbia
S.S. Klondike National Historic Site, Yukon
S.S. Keno National Historic Site, Yukon
Dawson Historical Complex National Historic Site, Yukon
Dredge No. 4 National Historic Site, Yukon
"Thirty Mile" National Heritage River (a section of the Yukon River)
vteNational Historical Parks of the United States
Abraham Lincoln Birthplace
Adams
Appomattox Court House
Blackstone River Valley
Boston
Cane River Creole
Cedar Creek and Belle Grove
Chaco Culture
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Colonial
Cumberland Gap
Dayton Aviation Heritage
First State
Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie
George Rogers Clark
Golden Spike
Harpers Ferry
Harriet Tubman
Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad
Hopewell Culture
Independence
Jean Lafitte
Kalaupapa
Kaloko-Honokōhau
Keweenaw
Klondike Gold Rush
Lewis and Clark
Lowell
Lyndon B. Johnson
Manhattan Project
Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller
Martin Luther King Jr.
Minute Man
Morristown
Natchez
New Bedford Whaling
New Orleans Jazz
Nez Perce
Ocmulgee Mounds
Palo Alto Battlefield
Paterson Great Falls
Pecos
Puʻuhonua o Hōnaunau
Reconstruction Era
Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front
Saint-Gaudens
Salt River Bay
San Antonio Missions
San Francisco Maritime
San Juan Island
Saratoga
Sitka
Thomas Edison
Tumacácori
Valley Forge
War in the Pacific
Women's Rights
Full alphabetical list
vteProtected areas of WashingtonFederalNational Parks
Mount Rainier
North Cascades
Olympic
National Monuments
Hanford Reach (USFWS)
Mount St. Helens Volcanic (USFS)
San Juan Islands (BLM)
National HistoricalParks &amp; Sites
Fort Vancouver NHS
Klondike Gold Rush NHP
Lewis and Clark NHP
Manhattan Project NHP
Nez Perce NHP
San Juan Island NHP
Whitman Mission NHS
National Historical Reserves
Ebey's Landing
National Trails
Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail
Pacific Crest Trail
Pacific Northwest National Scenic Trail
NPS National Recreation Areas
Lake Chelan
Lake Roosevelt
Ross Lake
National Wildlife Refuges
Billy Frank Jr. Nisqually
Columbia
Conboy Lake
Copalis
Dungeness
Flattery Rocks
Franz Lake
Grays Harbor
Julia Butler Hansen Refuge for the Columbian White-Tailed Deer
Little Pend Oreille
McNary
Pierce
Protection Island
Quillayute Needles
Ridgefield
Saddle Mountain
San Juan Islands
Steigerwald Lake
Toppenish
Turnbull
Umatilla
Willapa
National Forests
Colville
Gifford Pinchot
Idaho Panhandle
Kaniksu
Mount Baker-Snoqualmie
Okanogan
Olympic
Umatilla
Wenatchee
USFS National Recreation Areas
Mount Baker
National Wilderness
Alpine Lakes
Boulder River
Brothers
Buckhorn
Clearwater
Colonel Bob
Daniel J. Evans
Glacier Peak
Glacier View
Goat Rocks
Henry M. Jackson
Indian Heaven
Juniper Dunes
Lake Chelan-Sawtooth Ridge
Mount Adams
Mount Baker
Mount Rainier
Mount Skokomish
Noisy-Diobsud
Norse Peak
Pasayten
Salmo-Priest
San Juan
Stephen Mather
Tatoosh
Trapper Creek
Washington Islands
Wenaha–Tucannon
Wild Sky
William O. Douglas
Wonder Mountain
National Marine Sanctuary &amp; Estuarine Research Reserve
Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary
Padilla Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve
National Wild and Scenic Rivers
Illabot
Klickitat
Pratt
Snoqualmie
Skagit
White Salmon
StateState Parks
Alta Lake
Anderson Lake
Battle Ground Lake
Bay View
Beacon Rock
Belfair
Birch Bay
Blake Island
Blind Island
Bogachiel
Bottle Beach
Bridgeport
Bridle Trails
Brooks Memorial
Cama Beach
Camano Island
Camp Wooten Retreat Center
Cape Disappointment
Centennial Trail
Clark Island
Columbia Hills
Columbia Plateau Trail
Conconully
Crawford
Curlew Lake
Cutts Island
Daroga
Dash Point
Deception Pass
Doe Island
Dosewallips
Doug's Beach
Eagle Island
Federation Forest
Fields Spring
Flaming Geyser
Fort Casey
Fort Columbia
Fort Ebey
Fort Flagler
Fort Simcoe
Fort Townsend
Fort Worden
Ginkgo Petrified Forest
Goldendale Observatory
Grayland Beach
Griffiths-Priday Ocean
Harstine Island
Hope Island (Mason County)
Hope Island (Skagit County)
Ike Kinswa
Illahee
Iron Horse
James Island
Jarrell Cove
Joemma Beach
Jones Island
Joseph Whidbey
Kanaskat-Palmer
Kinney Point
Kitsap Memorial
Kopachuck
Lake Chelan
Lake Easton
Lake Lenore Caves
Lake Sammamish
Lake Sylvia
Lake Wenatchee
Larrabee
Leadbetter Point
Lewis and Clark
Lewis and Clark Trail
Lime Kiln Point
Lincoln Rock
Manchester
Maryhill
Matia Island
McMicken Island
Millersylvania
Moran
Mount Pilchuck
Mount Spokane
Mystery Bay
Nine Mile Recreation Area
Nolte
Obstruction Pass
Ocean City
Olallie
Olmstead Place
Pacific Beach
Pacific Pines
Palouse Falls
Paradise Point
Patos Island
Peace Arch
Pearrygin Lake
Penrose Point
Peshastin Pinnacles
Pleasant Harbor
Posey Island
Potholes
Potlatch
Rainbow Falls
Rasar
Reed Island
Riverside
Rockport
Sacajawea
Saddlebag Island
Saint Edward
Saltwater
Scenic Beach
Schafer
Seaquest
Sequim Bay
Shine Tidelands
Skagit Island
Skull Island
South Whidbey Island
Spencer Spit
Spring Creek Hatchery
Squak Mountain
Squilchuck
Steamboat Rock
Steptoe Battlefield
Steptoe Butte
Stretch Point
Stuart Island
Sucia Island
Sun Lakes-Dry Falls
Tolmie
Triton Cove
Turn Island
Twanoh
Twenty-Five Mile Creek
Twin Harbors
Upright Channel
Wallace Falls
Wanapum Recreational Area
Wenatchee Confluence
Westhaven
Westport Light
Yakima Sportsman
State Forests
Ahtanum
Capitol
Elbe Hills
Green Mountain
Loomis
Loup Loup
Tahuya
Tiger Mountain
Yacolt Burn
Natural Area Preserves
Admiralty Inlet
Badger Gulch
Bald Hill
Barker Mountain
Bone River
Camas Meadows
Carlisle Bog
Castle Rock
Charley Creek
Chehalis River Surge Plain
Chopaka Mountain
Clearwater Bogs
Cleveland Shrub Steppe
Columbia Falls
Columbia Hills
Cypress Highlands
Dabob Bay
Dailey Prairie
Davis Canyon
Entiat Slopes
Goose Island
Gunpowder Island
Hamma Hamma Balds
Ink Blot
Kahlotus Ridgetop
Kennedy Creek
Kings Lake Bog
Kitsap Forest
Lacamas Prairie Natural Area
Little Pend Oreille River
Marcellus Shrub Steppe
Methow Rapids
Mima Mounds
Monte Cristo
Niawiakum River
North Bay
Oak Patch
Olivine Bridge
Pinecroft
Point Doughty
Riverside Breaks
Rocky Prairie
Sand Island
Schumacher Creek
Selah Cliffs
Skagit Bald Eagle
Skookum Inlet
Snoqualmie Bog
Spring Creek Canyon
Trout Lake
The Two-Steppe
Upper Dry Gulch
Washougal Oaks Natural Area
Whitcomb Flats
Willapa Divide
Natural ResourcesConservation Areas
Cattle Point
Clearwater Corridor
Cypress Island
Devils Lake
Dishman Hills
Elk River
Ellsworth Creek
Granite Lakes
Hat Island
Hendrickson Canyon
Klickitat Canyon
Lake Louise
Loomis
Lummi Island
Merrill Lake
Middle Fork Snoqualmie
Morning Star
Mount Si
Rattlesnake Mountain Scenic Area
Shipwreck Point
South Nemah
South Nolan
Stavis
Table Mountain
Tahoma Forest
Teal Slough
Washougal Oaks Natural Area
West Tiger Mountain
White Salmon Oak
Woodard Bay
Aquatic Reserves
Cherry Point
Cypress Island
Fidalgo Bay
Maury Island
Nisqually Reach
Protection Island
Smith and Minor Islands
OtherFormer state parks
Damon Point
Fay Bainbridge
Fort Okanogan
Fort Ward Park
Griffin Bay
Lyons Ferry Park
Mukilteo Lighthouse Park
Osoyoos Lake Veteran's Memorial Park
Wenberg
Blanchard Forest
Cascadia Marine Trail
The Enchantments
Goose Island
Les Hilde Trail &amp; Trailheads
Little Pend Oreille
Mount Adams Recreation Area
Sehome Hill Arboretum
Walker Valley ORV Riding Area
Withrow Moraine
Yellow Island
 Category
Seattle
Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission
 Commons
vteProtected areas of AlaskaFederalNational Parks
Denali
Gates of the Arctic
Glacier Bay
Katmai
Kenai Fjords
Kobuk Valley
Lake Clark
Wrangell–St. Elias
National Historical Parks
Klondike Gold Rush
Sitka
National Monuments
Admiralty Island (USFS)
Aleutian Islands World War II (FWS)
Aniakchak
Cape Krusenstern
Misty Fiords (USFS)
National Preserves
Bering Land Bridge
Noatak
Yukon–Charley Rivers
National Wildlife Refuges
Alaska Maritime
Alaska Peninsula
Arctic
Becharof
Innoko
Izembek
Kanuti
Kenai
Kodiak
Koyukuk
Nowitna
Selawik
Tetlin
Togiak
Yukon Delta
Yukon Flats
National Forests
Chugach
Tongass
Forest Service units
Mendenhall Glacier
U.S. Wilderness Areas
Aleutian Islands
Andreafsky
Becharof
Bering Sea
Bogoslof
Chamisso
Chuck River
Coronation Island
Denali
Endicott River
Forrester Island
Gates of the Arctic
Glacier Bay
Hazy Islands
Innoko
Izembek
Karta River
Katmai
Kenai
Kobuk Valley
Kootznoowoo
Koyukuk
Kuiu
Lake Clark
Maurille Islands
Misty Fjords
Mollie Beattie
Noatak
Nunivak
Petersburg Creek–Duncan Salt Chuck
Pleasant/Lemusurier/Inian Islands
Russell Fjord
Saint Lazaria
Selawik
Semidi
Simeonof
South Baranof
South Etolin
South Prince of Wales
Stikine-LeConte
Tebenkof Bay
Togiak
Tracy Arm-Fords Terror
Tuxedni
Unimak
Warren Island
West Chichagof-Yakobi
Wrangell–Saint Elias
Wild and Scenic Rivers
Alagnak
Alatna
Andreafsky
Aniakchak
Beaver Creek
Birch Creek
Charley
Chilikadrotna
Delta
Fortymile
Gulkana
Ivishak
John
Kobuk
North Fork Koyukuk
Mulchatna
Noatak
Nowitna
Salmon
Selawik
Sheenjek
Tinayguk
Tlikakila
Unalakleet
Wind
National Conservation Area
Steese
StateState Parks
Afognak Island
Chilkat
Chugach
Denali
Kachemak Bay
Point Bridget
Shuyak Island
Full list of all state parks, recreation areas and sites, historic parks and sites, and marine parks
Wood-Tikchik
State Forests
Haines
Southeast
Tanana Valley
Alaska Department of Natural Resources
vteProtected Areas of SeattleFederalNational Parks
Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park
Wing Luke Museum (affiliated)
City parks andpreservesGreater than 50 acres (20 ha)
Alki Beach
Camp Long
Carkeek
Discovery
Genesee
Golden Gardens
Green Lake
Interlaken
Jackson
Jefferson
Lake Washington Boulevard
Lincoln
Magnolia Tidelands
Magnuson
Puget
Schmitz
Seattle Center
Seward
Westcrest
West Seattle Golf Course
Woodland
10–50 acres (4.0–20.2 ha)
Brighton Playfield
Cheasty Boulevard South
Colman
Condon Way Centerstrip
Dahl Playfield
Emma Schmitz Memorial Overlook
Fauntleroy
Frink
Garfield
Gas Works
Hamilton Viewpoint
Herring's House Park (Tualtwx)
Hiawatha
Interbay Golf
Kinnear
Lakeridge
Lawton
Leschi
Longfellow Creek
Madrona
Magnolia
Magnolia Playfield
Maple Leaf Reservoir
Maple Wood Playfield
Matthews Beach
Meadowbrook Playfield
Me-Kwa-Mooks
Montlake Playfield
Mount Baker
Northacres
Open Water Park
Pigeon Point
Pritchard Island Beach
Queen Anne Boulevard
Ravenna Park
Riverview Playfield
Roxhill
Sam Smith
Soundview Playfield
Stan Sayres Memorial
Volunteer
Walt Hundley Playfield
West Seattle Stadium
0.02–10 acres (0.0081–4.0469 ha)
Alvin Larkins
Beer Sheva
Bell Street
Bryant Playground
Cal Anderson
Cascade Playground
Cowen
City Hall
Commodore 
Denny
Denny-Blaine
Donnie Chin
East Montlake
Fairview
Freeway
Fremont Peak
Hing Hay
Home of the Good Shepherd
I-5 Colonnade
Jack Block
Jimi Hendrix
Kerry
Kiwanis Ravine
Kobe Terrace
Lake People
Lake Union
Lakeview
Louisa Boren
Madison
Marshall Park
McCurdy
Meridian Playground
Myrtle Edwards
Nora's Woods
North Passage Point
Northacres
Occidental
Olympic Sculpture Park
Oxbow
Parsons Gardens
Peace
Rizal
Roanoke
Schmitz Boulevard
South Passage Point
Terry Pettus Park
Tilikum Place
Union Bay Natural Area
Victor Steinbrueck
Viretta
Waterfront
West Montlake
Westlake
Under 0.02 acres (0.0081 ha)
Boylston Place
Lakeview Place
McGraw Square
Westlake Square
OtherFarms, gardens and P-Patches
Beacon Food Forest
Danny Woo International District Community Garden
Interbay P-Patch
Marra Farm
Picardo Farm
Green belts
St. Mark's Greenbelt
SW Queen Anne Greenbelt
The Jungle (East Duwamish Greenbelt)
West Duwamish Greenbelt
Zoos and aquariums
Seattle Aquarium
Woodland Park Zoo
Arboretums and botanical gardens
Carl S. English Jr. Botanical Gardens
Kubota Garden
Piper Orchard
Seattle Chinese Garden
Seattle Japanese Garden
South Seattle Community College Arboretum
Volunteer Park Conservatory
Washington Park Arboretum
Landscape architecture
Alaska–Yukon–Pacific Exposition
Olmsted parks
Bicycle trails
Burke-Gilman Trail
Chief Sealth Trail
Seattle Parks and Recreation
List of parks in Seattle
vteProperties on the National Register of Historic Places in AlaskaBoroughs
Aleutians East
Anchorage
Bristol Bay
Denali
Fairbanks North Star
Haines
Juneau
Kenai Peninsula
Ketchikan Gateway
Kodiak Island
Lake and Peninsula
Matanuska-Susitna
North Slope
Northwest Arctic
Sitka
Skagway
Wrangell
Yakutat
Census areas
Aleutians West
Bethel
Dillingham
Hoonah–Angoon
Nome
Petersburg
Prince of Wales–Hyder
Southeast Fairbanks
Valdez–Cordova
Yukon–Koyukuk
There are no sites listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Kusilvak Census Area.
vteU.S. National Register of Historic PlacesTopics
Architectural style categories
Contributing property
Historic district
History of the National Register of Historic Places
Keeper of the Register
National Park Service
Property types
Lists by state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Lists by insular areas
American Samoa
Guam
Minor Outlying Islands
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
Virgin Islands
Lists by associated state
Federated States of Micronesia
Marshall Islands
Palau
Other areas
District of Columbia
Morocco
Related
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966
Historic Preservation Fund
 Portal
 Category
vteNational Park Travelers Club Conventions
2003: Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area
2004: Rocky Mountain National Park
2005: Mammoth Cave National Park
2006: Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore
2007: Olympic National Park
2008: Lowell National Historical Park
2009: Sequoia National Park
2010: El Malpais National Monument
2011: National Mall
2012: Apostle Islands National Lakeshore
2013: Shiloh National Military Park
2014: Klondike Gold Rush National Historical Park
2015: Chamizal National Memorial
2016 (planned): Independence National Historical Park
Authority control 
GND: 7583816-3
LCCN: sh2012000612
VIAF: 312868360
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no2006135872
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Klondike_Gold_Rush_National_Historical_Park&amp;oldid=934383573"
		Categories: IUCN Category IIIKlondike Gold RushProtected areas of the Municipality of Skagway Borough, AlaskaMuseums in SeattleNational Historical Parks of the United StatesNational Register of Historic Places in SeattleHistoric districts on the National Register of Historic Places in AlaskaHistory museums in Washington (state)Protected areas established in 1976Open-air museums in AlaskaMuseums in Skagway, AlaskaNational Park Service areas in AlaskaNational Park Service areas in Washington (state)Transboundary protected areasNational Register of Historic Places in the Municipality of Skagway Borough, AlaskaPioneer Square, SeattleParks on the National Register of Historic Places in AlaskaMuseums established in 19791976 establishments in Alaska1979 establishments in Washington (state)Western false front architectureHidden categories: Articles using NRISref without a reference numberWebarchive template wayback linksCoordinates on WikidataNRHP infobox with nocatCommons category link from WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		CebuanoČeštinaDeutschFrançaisPolskiRomânăУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 6 January 2020, at 06:30 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
