	Hidden track
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For the film, see Hidden Track (film). For the EP by Jay Chou, see Hidden Track (EP).
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
      This article is in list format, but may read better as prose. You can help by converting this article, if appropriate. Editing help is available.  (September 2013)
This article may contain indiscriminate, excessive, or irrelevant examples. Please improve the article by adding more descriptive text and removing less pertinent examples. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for further suggestions.  (September 2013)
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.  (December 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In the field of recorded music, a hidden track (sometimes called a secret track) is a song that has been placed on a CD, audio cassette, LP record, or other recorded medium, in such a way as to avoid detection by the casual listener.  In some cases, the piece of music may simply have been left off the track listing, while in other cases more elaborate methods are used.  In rare cases a 'hidden track' is actually the result of an error that occurred during the mastering stage production of the recorded media.[citation needed]
Contents
1 Techniques
2 Reasoning
3 Notable hidden tracks
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Techniques[edit]
A vinyl record may be double-grooved, with the second groove containing the hidden tracks.  Examples of double-grooving include Monty Python's 'three-sided' Matching Tie and Handkerchief, Tool's Opiate EP,[1] and Mr. Bungle's Disco Volante.
On indexed media such as compact discs, double-grooving cannot be used, but there are additional methods of hiding tracks, such as:
Similar to the above example, having the song as a separate unlisted track with its own index point.
Placing the song after another track (usually, but not necessarily, the last track on the album), following a period of silence.  For example, Nirvana's song Endless, Nameless was included as a hidden track in this way on their 1991 CD Nevermind, after 10 minutes of complete silence.[2][3]  Although it was not the first hidden track to use this technique, this hidden song gained significant attention.[4]
Placing the song in the pregap of the first track, so that the CD must first be cued to the track, and then manually back-scanned; these are often referred to as Track 0[5] or Hidden Track One Audio (HTOA).[6]  A CD player will not play these tracks without manual intervention, and some models (including computers) are unable to read such content.  On Super Furry Animals third album, Guerrilla, The Citizens Band is found in the pre-gap approximately 5 minutes before the beginning of track 1.  The song's lyrics are printed on the interior of the cardboard outer sleeve of the CD, essentially rendering them inaccessible without taking the sleeve apart.  See List of albums with tracks hidden in the pregap.
Placing the song in pregaps on other tracks on the album.
Using many short tracks of silence before the hidden track.[5]  On Lazlo Bane's debut album 11 Transistor, the eleventh song, Midday Train, is followed by 57 silent tracks 4 seconds each, with Prada Wallet (sometimes referred to as The Birthday Song) being the 69th track on the album.  The total length of silence between the two songs is 3:48.[7]
Making the track playable only through a computer, such as the '15th' track on Marilyn Manson's Mechanical Animals album, which can only be accessed through an Enhanced CD executable.
Hide the song in a mixed or distorted way which must be undone to play it.  For example, on a DVD included with the deluxe and 'ultra-deluxe' editions of Nine Inch Nails's Ghosts I–IV, two hidden bonus tracks (37 Ghosts and 38 Ghosts) are included as digital multitrack files, from which the songs may be reconstructed.
It is occasionally unclear whether a piece of music is 'hidden'.  For example, Her Majesty, which is preceded by fourteen seconds of silence, was originally unlisted on The Beatles' Abbey Road, but is listed on current versions of the album.[8]  This is one of the first instances of a hidden track.  The song snippet at the end of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band is considered by some to be a hidden track, by others to be noise not worthy of such a designation, and by others to be part of A Day in the Life.[9]
Reasoning[edit]
Aaliyah's self-titled album Aaliyah features the hidden song Messed Up on track 15.  During the stages of the album creation, Aaliyah had no desire to put this song on the album, but after numerous inquiries from different labels and colleagues, she decided on making it a hidden track.[10]
In some rare cases, it is used to avoid legal issues.  An example is Ramones' Loco Live American version, which has the song Carbona Not Glue hidden after Pet Sematary on track 17.  It was originally recorded on their album Leave Home, but the makers of the spot remover Carbona, a registered trademark, objected.  Therefore, reference to the song was removed from the album and cover.[11]
Freedom by Paul McCartney was a hidden track on the original release of Driving Rain.  It was later added as a track on the re-release.  The track was not meant to be hidden; it was a tribute to 9/11 victims, and McCartney wanted it on the album.  The artwork was already done, so it was a hidden track.[12]
Train in Vain by The Clash, which appears at the end of London Calling, was left out of the vinyl's track listing simply because it was a last-minute addition to the album, when the sleeves were already printed.  It is thus not a real hidden track.  It was originally intended as a promotional giveaway for NME.  The later CD versions list the track on the sleeve.[13]
Green Day's All By Myself (by drummer Tré Cool) was added as a secret song to Dookie due to the low sound quality of the original live recording.
"Weird Al" Yankovic's Bite Me from the album Off the Deep End was put on after ten minutes of silence to scare listeners who had forgotten to turn off the CD player.  In fact if you play the song backwards and slow it down by 800 percent, a distorted clip of the song Tears of the Earth by David Hallyday can be heard.[14]  It was also a loose parody of Endless, Nameless by Nirvana.  The cover of Off the Deep End is also a parody of the album containing that track, Nevermind, and its first track is a parody of that album's first track, Smells Like Teen Spirit.
The X-Files: The Album, features a hidden track at 10 minutes and 13 seconds into the final track.  The track consists of series creator Chris Carter explaining the series mythology and meaning behind the alien conspiracy.  The hidden track even includes spoilers and minute details in the show's overall plot that had not yet been resolved on the show itself when the album was released.  This track was included as both a surprise to devoted fans who would seek out answers in cross-promotional merchandise, and as a mystery to new fans who would need to watch the show more closely to better understand the track.[15]
Eugene Mirman's album The Absurd Night Club Comedy of Eugene Mirman includes a hidden track making fun of hidden tracks, and telling the listener that he or she has a very bizarre mission.[16]
The Jam's All Mod Cons does not list the song English Rose and its lyrics on original vinyl copies because Paul Weller believed the title and song lose meaning without accompanying music.  They have been added to re-releases of the album.
Skip Spence's Land of the Sun was included as a hidden track by producer Bill Bentley to specifically close a tribute album to Spence, More Oar: A Tribute to the Skip Spence Album.[17]
Oasis' compilation album, Time Flies, features the single Sunday Morning Call as a hidden track.  The album was an anthology of all of the band's singles, but principal songwriter Noel Gallagher openly detests the song,[18] so chose to have it hidden.
Notable hidden tracks[edit]
Sometimes hidden tracks have become well known and received radio airplay, and occasionally climbed the charts.
The Beatles' track Her Majesty from their 1969 album Abbey Road is considered a hidden track, though it was originally a part of the album itself, before Paul McCartney requested that it be removed; the song was later inserted at the end of the master recording after 20 seconds of silence, because the producers were not willing to remove it entirely from the album.  The original pressings of Abbey Road did not list Her Majesty on the back cover song title listing, nor the record label; subsequent LP pressings and then CD issues were issued revealing the track.  However, two years prior, in 1967, on the UK version of the Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album, there was the inner groove that appeared after A Day in the Life at the end of side 2.  It was an unexpected, untitled, and un-credited Beatles recording; so this might be deemed a precursor to the hidden track.  A potential hidden track on yet another Beatles album is on The Beatles (also known popularly as The White Album) 1968 double album.  The hidden track is an unlisted, untitled and un-credited 'outro' to Cry Baby Cry, more popularly known as Can You Take Me Back, the primary lyrics of the song.
Janet Jackson's track Whoops Now, a hidden track from her album janet.,[19] was released as a single, and reached number 9 in UK Singles Charts, and number 1 in New Zealand Singles Chart.
The Rembrandts had a sudden radio hit in 1995 with I'll Be There For You, the theme song to Friends, so it was added at the last minute to their third album LP.  As a result, the song was a hidden track on the early printing, since the CD packaging had already been completed by the time the song was added.  A sticker was however added to the outer shrink wrap advising the song's inclusion.
Eels' album Daisies of the Galaxy contains a hidden track, Mr. E's Beautiful Blues, which was released as a single, and received radio airplay, although it was not featured on the sleeve notes.[20]  The song was, in fact, released as the first single from the album, and peaked at number 11 on the UK Singles Chart.
Cracker's Euro-Trash Girl, an original, was one of their biggest radio hits, despite being a hidden track on Kerosene Hat.[21]
Skin (Sarabeth) by Rascal Flatts, a hidden track from their 2004 album Feels Like Today, received enough airplay to chart in the Top 40 on the country charts, peaking at number 2 in late 2005.  In mid-2005, the album was re-issued, with the song officially listed as a track, coinciding with the song's release as a single.[22]
Of the two hidden tracks on Lauryn Hill's The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill, one of them, the cover of Can't Take My Eyes Off You was nominated for a Grammy in 1999 in the category of 'Best Female Pop Vocal Performance'.  It was the first time a hidden track was nominated for a Grammy.[23]
One of the hidden tracks on P!nk's fourth album, I Have Seen The Rain, gained significant attention by P!nk fans, as her father, James T. Moore was featured on the song.[24]
Peter, Paul and Mary's 2003 album, In These Times, revealed that after 30 seconds of silence from "Oh, Had I a Golden Thread, there was a hidden live track of a Spanish folk song Mi Caballo Blanco,[25]although it was listed in the box-set Carry It On.[26]  The track was later officially listed on their 2014 album: Discovered: Live in Concert [27]
See also[edit]
Easter egg (media)
B-side
List of albums containing a hidden track
List of albums with tracks hidden in the pregap
Backmasking
Bonus track
Pregap
Track (CD)
Sampling (music)
References[edit]
^ "The Tool FAQ". Archived from the original on 2007-03-04. Retrieved 2007-03-07..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Cross, Charles R.; Jim Berkenstadt (2004). Nevermind. Music Sales Group. p. 103. ISBN 0-8256-7286-4.
^ "Endless, Nameless". Archived from the original on 2006-07-20. Retrieved 2007-03-08.
^ Thompson, Dave (2002). The Music Lover's Guide to Record Collecting. Backbeat Books. pp. 50–51. ISBN 0-87930-713-7.
^ a b Katz, Bob; Robert A. Katz (2002). Mastering Audio: The Art and the Science. Focal Press. p. 93. ISBN 0-240-80545-3.
^ "HTOA - Hidden Track One Audio". Archived from the original on 2009-09-05.
^ "11 Transistor - Lazlo Bane". AllMusic. Archived from the original on 2015-09-26.
^ "Hidden Songs: The Beatles, Her Majesty". Archived from the original on 2007-04-22. Retrieved 2007-03-07.
^ "Hidden Songs: The Beatles, Untitled". Archived from the original on 2007-04-27. Retrieved 2007-03-07.
^ "Rare Gem: Aaliyah 'Messed Up' (early version)". YouKnowIGotSoul.com. 16 October 2012. Retrieved 19 December 2018.
^ "LOCO LIVE (American version)". Archived from the original on 2008-12-22.
^ Wawzenek, Bryan. "How Paul McCartney began building his next era on 'Driving Rain'". UltimateClassicRock.com. Retrieved 19 December 2018.
^ "The Greatest Songs Ever! 'Train in Vain (Stand by Me)'". Archived from the original on 2009-02-21. Retrieved 2007-03-07.
^ Midnight Star "Ask Al" Q&amp;As for January/February 1998 Archived 2001-06-26 at the Wayback Machine
^ staff. "X-Files knowledge". Archived from the original on 2012-10-05.
^ Mirman, Eugene. "Absurd Nightclub Comedy of Eugene Mirman: Eugene Mirman: Music". Retrieved 2011-07-27.
^ Margaret Moser, "Back Door Man: The Man Behind More Oar, Bill Bentley" Archived 2007-04-12 at the Wayback Machine.  The Austin Chronicle, December 17, 1999; www.austinchronicle.com.
^ ac2006 (30 January 2014). "Noel Gallagher's Oasis DVD commentary highlights". Archived from the original on 23 February 2017. Retrieved 4 May 2018 – via YouTube.
^ Hampp, Andrew. "Janet Jackson, 'janet.': classic track-by-track review". Billboard.com. Retrieved 19 December 2018.
^ Peter Naldrett (March 2000). "The Most Beautiful of Freaks". MusicCritic.com. Archived from the original on 20 August 2008. Retrieved 8 January 2009.
^ "'Kerosene Hat' is hot". Archived from the original on 2007-10-17. Retrieved 2007-03-07.
^ "Piano Sheet Music - Rascal Flatts - Skin". Archived from the original on 2007-09-28. Retrieved 2007-03-07.
^ Kot, Greg. "10 nominations put Lauryn Hill atop Grammy heap". ChicagoTribune.com. Retrieved 19 December 2018.
^ "I Have Seen The Rain (feat. James T. Moore) by P!nk on Apple Music". Apple Music. Retrieved 30 December 2019.
^ https://www.peterpaulandmary.com/music/24-13.htm
^ https://www.allmusic.com/album/carry-it-on-bonus-dvd-mw0000694199
^ https://www.rhino.com/article/now-available-peter-paul-mary-discovered-live-in-concert
External links[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Music portal
Hidden Songs — a user-submitted database of hidden song listings
vteMusic industryMajor companiesand organisationsRepresentatives
ARIA
BVMI
BPI
Music Canada
FIMI
IFPI (worldwide)
PROMUSICAE
RIAA
SNEP
Musicpublishers
BMG Rights Management
Music catalog
Sony/ATV Music Publishing
Universal Music Publishing Group
Warner Chappell Music
Record labels
Major: Sony
Universal
Warner
Independent: Concord Music Group
Independent UK record labels
Retailers
Amazon
Fnac
HMV
Online music stores (iTunes Store)
Trans World Entertainment
Virgin Megastores
Live music
CTS Eventim
Live Nation
LiveStyle
Ticketmaster
Majorpopular genres
Avant-garde
Blues
Contemporary R&amp;B
Country
Crossover
Dance
Disco
Drum and bass
Easy listening
Electronica
Experimental
Folk
Funk
Gospel
Hip hop
Instrumental
Jazz
Latin
Metal
Motown
New Age
Operatic pop
Pop
Punk
Reggae
Rock
Soul
Soundtrack
World
Sectorsand roles
Album cover design
Artists and repertoire (A&amp;R)
Disc jockey
Distribution
Entertainment law
Music education
Music executive
Music journalism
Music publisher
Music store
Music venue
Musical instruments
Professional audio store
Promotion
Radio promotion
Record label
Record shop
Road crew
Talent manager
Tour promoter
 Production
Arrangement
Composer
Conductor
Disc jockey
Hip hop producer
Horn section
Record producer
Rhythm section
Orchestrator
Session musician
Backup singer
Ghost singer
Vocal coach
Ghostwriter
Sound engineer
Releaseformats
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
Album
Music video
Promotional recording
Phonograph record
Eight-track
Compact cassette
CD
DVD
Airplay
Music download
Streaming media
Live shows
Concert
Concert tour
Concert residency
Music festival
Music competition
Charts
ARIA Charts
Billboard Hot 100
Billboard Argentina Hot 100
Brasil Hot 100 Airplay
Canadian Hot 100
Gaon Music Chart
G-Music Chart
Irish Singles Chart
Italian Singles Chart
GfK Entertainment Charts
Entertainment Monitoring Africa
Oricon Charts
New Zealand Singles Chart
Rolling Stone Top 100
Sino Chart
SNEP Singles Chart
Sverigetopplistan
UK Singles Chart
Publications
Billboard
HitQuarters
Hot Press
Kerrang!
Mojo
Musica e dischi
NME
Q
Rolling Stone
Smash Hits
Top of the Pops
TelevisionChannels
Channel V
CMT
Fuse
Mnet
MTV
MTV2
Tr3s
MuchMusic
The Music Factory
Viva
VH1
The Country Network
Series
Idol franchise
Popstars
Star Academy
The Four
The Voice
The X Factor
Rising Star
Achievements
Music award
Best-selling music artists
Best-selling albums
by country
Best-selling singles
Highest-grossing concert tours
Highest-attended concerts
Global Recording Artist of the Year
Other
Album era
Album-equivalent unit
A-side and B-side
Backmasking
Christian music industry
Hidden track
Largest recorded music markets
Music certification
Record sales
Surprise album
White label
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hidden_track&amp;oldid=978165817"
		Categories: SongsSound recording technologyHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles needing cleanup from September 2013All pages needing cleanupArticles with sections that need to be turned into prose from September 2013Articles with too many examples from September 2013All articles with too many examplesWikipedia articles with style issues from September 2013Articles that may contain original research from December 2018All articles that may contain original researchArticles with multiple maintenance issuesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2018AC with 0 elements
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎DeutschEspañolFrançais한국어ItalianoMagyarNederlands日本語OccitanPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 13 September 2020, at 08:37 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
