	Online chat
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
Real-time texting over the internet
  In this typical online chat program, the window to the left shows a list of contacts, and the window to the right shows a conversation between the user and one of those contacts
series onE-commerce
Online goods and services
Digital distribution
E-books
Software
Streaming media
Retail services
Banking
DVD-by-mail
Flower delivery
Food ordering
Grocery
Pharmacy
Travel
Marketplace services
Advertising
Auctions
Comparison shopping
Online auction tools
Social commerce
Trading communities
Wallet
Mobile commerce
Payment
Ticketing
Customer service
Call centre
Help desk
Live support software
E-procurement
Purchase-to-payvte
Online chat may refer to any kind of communication over the Internet that offers a real-time transmission of text messages from sender to receiver. Chat messages are generally short in order to enable other participants to respond quickly. Thereby, a feeling similar to a spoken conversation is created, which distinguishes chatting from other text-based online communication forms such as Internet forums and email. Online chat may address point-to-point communications as well as multicast communications from one sender to many receivers and voice and video chat, or may be a feature of a web conferencing service.
Online chat in a less stringent definition may be primarily any direct text-based or video-based (webcams), one-on-one chat or one-to-many group chat (formally also known as synchronous conferencing), using tools such as instant messengers, Internet Relay Chat (IRC), talkers and possibly MUDs. The expression online chat comes from the word chat which means "informal conversation". Online chat includes web-based applications that allow communication – often directly addressed, but anonymous between users in a multi-user environment. Web conferencing is a more specific online service, that is often sold as a service, hosted on a web server controlled by the vendor.
Contents
1 History
2 Chatiquette
3 Social criticism
4 Software and protocols
5 See also
6 References
History
The first online chat system was called Talkomatic, created by Doug Brown and David R. Woolley in 1973 on the PLATO System at the University of Illinois. It offered several channels, each of which could accommodate up to five people, with messages appearing on all users' screens character-by-character as they were typed. Talkomatic was very popular among PLATO users into the mid-1980s. In 2014, Brown and Woolley released a web-based version of Talkomatic.[citation needed]
The first online system to use the actual command "chat" was created for The Source in 1979 by Tom Walker and Fritz Thane of Dialcom, Inc.[citation needed]
Other chat platforms flourished during the 1980s. Among the earliest with a GUI was BroadCast, a Macintosh extension that became especially popular on university campuses in America and Germany.[1]
The first transatlantic Internet chat took place between Oulu, Finland and Corvallis, Oregon in February 1989.[2]
The first dedicated online chat service that was widely available to the public was the CompuServe CB Simulator in 1980,[3][4] created by CompuServe executive Alexander "Sandy" Trevor in Columbus, Ohio. Ancestors include network chat software such as UNIX "talk" used in the 1970s.[citation needed]
Chatiquette
The term chatiquette (chat etiquette) is a variation of netiquette (Internet etiquette) and describes basic rules of online communication.[5][6][7] These conventions or guidelines have been created to avoid misunderstandings and to simplify the communication between users. Chatiquette varies from community to community and generally describes basic courtesy. As an example, it is considered rude to write only in upper case, because it appears as if the user is shouting. The word "chatiquette" has been used in connection with various chat systems (e.g. Internet Relay Chat) since 1995.[8][9]
Chatrooms can produce a strong sense of online identity leading to impression of subculture.[10]
Chats are valuable sources of various types of information, the automatic processing of which is the object of chat/text mining technologies.[11]
Social criticism
Criticism of online chatting and text messaging include concern that they replace proper English with shorthand or with an almost completely new hybrid language.[12][13][14]
Writing is changing as it takes on some of the functions and features of speech. Internet chat rooms and rapid real-time teleconferencing allow users to interact with whoever happens to coexist in cyberspace. These virtual interactions involve us in 'talking' more freely and more widely than ever before.[15] With chatrooms replacing many face-to-face conversations, it is necessary to be able to have quick conversation as if the person were present, so many people learn to type as quickly as they would normally speak. Some critics[who?] are wary that this casual form of speech is being used so much that it will slowly take over common grammar; however, such a change has yet to be seen.
With the increasing population of online chatrooms there has been a massive growth[16] of new words created or slang words, many of them documented on the website Urban Dictionary. Sven Birkerts wrote:
"as new electronic modes of communication provoke similar anxieties amongst critics who express concern that young people are at risk, endangered by a rising tide of information over which the traditional controls of print media and the guardians of knowledge have no control on it".[17]
In Guy Merchant's journal article Teenagers in Cyberspace: An Investigation of Language Use and Language Change in Internet Chatrooms; Merchant says
"that teenagers and young people are in the leading the movement of change as they take advantage of the possibilities of digital technology, drastically changing the face of literacy in a variety of media through their uses of mobile phone text messages, e-mails, web-pages and on-line chatrooms. This new literacy develops skills that may well be important to the labor market but are currently viewed with suspicion in the media and by educationalists.[15]  Merchant also says "Younger people tend to be more adaptable than other sectors of society and, in general, quicker to adapt to new technology. To some extent they are the innovators, the forces of change in the new communication landscape."[15] In this article he is saying that young people are merely adapting to what they were given.
Software and protocols
The following are common chat programs and protocols:
AOL Instant Messenger (AIM)
Apple Messages
BroadCast
Camfrog
Campfire
Discord
Gadu-Gadu
Google Talk
I2P-Messenger (anonymous, end-to-end encrypted im for the I2P network)
Internet Citizen's Band (ICB)
ICQ (OSCAR)
Internet Relay Chat (IRC)
Line
Mattermost
MUD
Paltalk
RetroShare (encrypted, decentralized)
QQ
SILC
Slack
Skype
Talk
Talker
TeamSpeak (TS)
The Palace (encrypted, decentralized)
WebChat Broadcasting System (WBS)
WeChat
WhatsApp
Windows Live Messenger
XMPP
Yahoo! Messenger  (No longer available)
Telegram
Flock
Chat programs supporting multiple protocols:
Adium
Google+ Hangouts
Kopete
IBM Sametime
Miranda IM
Pidgin
Quiet Internet Pager
Trillian
Windows Live Messenger
Web sites with browser-based chat services (also see web chat):
Chat-Avenue
Chat Television (No longer available)
Convore (No longer available)
Cryptocat
eBuddy
Facebook
FilmOn
Gmail
Google+ (No longer available)
MeBeam
Meebo (No longer available)
Mibbit (No longer available)
Omegle
Talkomatic
Tokbox (No longer available)
Tinychat
Trillian
Userplane (No longer available)
Woo Media (No longer available)
Zumbl (No longer available)
See also
Chat room
Collaborative software
Instant messaging
Internet forum
Online dating service
Real-time text
Videotelephony
Voice chat
References
^ Molly McKinney (19 November 1998). ""Sell a Couch or Make a New Friend: Broadcast Provides Potential Mind Games and Hookups." The Wooster Voice, November 19, 1998, p.8". Retrieved 2 July 2019..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "The 'Security Digest' Archives (TM) : TCP-IP Distribution List for February 1989". securitydigest.org. Archived from the original on 8 December 2017. Retrieved 6 May 2018.
^ "CompuServe Innovator Resigns After 25 Years", The Columbus Dispatch, 11 May 1996, p. 2F.
^ Mike Pramik, "Wired and Inspired", The Columbus Dispatch, (Business page), 12 November 2000.
^ "IRC Chatiquette – Chat Etiquette". Livinginternet.com. 28 November 1995. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ "BBC - WebWise - How do I use instant messaging (IM)?". Uits.uark.edu. Archived from the original on 3 July 2017. Retrieved 1 August 2017.
^ Using the Internet for Active Teaching and Learning, Steven C. Mills Archived 19 October 2008 at the Wayback Machine ISBN 0-13-110546-9
^ "Electronic Discourse - On Speech and Writing on the Internet - 3. Internet Relay Chat Discourse". Epubl.luth.se. Archived from the original on 4 March 2012. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ CNET reviews - comparative reviews - chat clients - chatiquette The Internet Archive
^ Regina Lynn (4 May 2007). "Virtual Rape Is Traumatic, but Is It a Crime?". Wired. Archived from the original on 20 December 2014.
^ "Texor". Yatsko's Computational Linguistics Laboratory. Archived from the original on 1 November 2014. Retrieved 29 June 2013.
^ Zimmer, Ben. Language Log: Shattering the illusions of texting Archived 16 February 2013 at the Wayback Machine, University of Pennsylvania, 18 September 2008.
^ Liberman, Mark. Language Log: Texting and language skills Archived 15 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine, 
University of Pennsylvania, 2 August 2012.
^ Zwicky, Arnold. Language Log: The decline of writing in Dingburg Archived 16 February 2013 at the Wayback Machine, www.aarichats.comUniversity of Pennsylvania. 19 September 2008.
^ a b c Merchant, Guy . "Teenagers in cyberspace: an investigation of language use and language change in internet chatrooms." Journal of Research in Reading. 2001, Vol. 24, Iss. 3, ISSN 0141-0423.
^ Topping, Alexandra (10 June 2009). "'Web 2.0' declared millionth word in English language". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 24 October 2016.
^ Birkerts, S. "Sense and semblance: The implications of virtuality." In B. Cox (Ed.), Literacy is not enough.  Manchester University Press. 1998
vteComputer-mediated communication
Online chat
Online discussion
Communication software
Collaborative software
Social network service
Virtual learning environment
Asynchronous conferencing
Email
Electronic mailing list
FidoNet
Usenet
Internet forum
Textboard
Imageboard
Shoutbox
Bulletin board system
Online guestbook
Synchronous conferencing
Data conferencing
Instant messaging
Internet Relay Chat
LAN messenger
Talker
Videoconferencing
Voice over IP
Voice chat in online gaming
Web chat
Web conferencing
Publishing
Blog
Microblogging
Wiki
vteTelecommunicationsHistory
Beacon
Broadcasting
Cable protection system
Cable TV
Communications satellite
Computer network
Data compression
audio
DCT
image
video
Digital media
Internet video
online video platform
social media
streaming
Drums
Edholm's law
Electrical telegraph
Fax
Heliographs
Hydraulic telegraph
Information Age
Information revolution
Internet
Mass media
Mobile phone
Smartphone
Optical telecommunication
Optical telegraphy
Pager
Photophone
Prepaid mobile phone
Radio
Radiotelephone
Satellite communications
Semaphore
Semiconductor
device
MOSFET
transistor
Smoke signals
Telecommunications history
Telautograph
Telegraphy
Teleprinter (teletype)
Telephone
The Telephone Cases
Television
digital
streaming
Undersea telegraph line
Videotelephony
Whistled language
Wireless revolution
Pioneers
Nasir Ahmed
Edwin Howard Armstrong
Mohamed M. Atalla
John Logie Baird
Paul Baran
John Bardeen
Alexander Graham Bell
Tim Berners-Lee
Jagadish Chandra Bose
Walter Houser Brattain
Vint Cerf
Claude Chappe
Yogen Dalal
Donald Davies
Lee de Forest
Philo Farnsworth
Reginald Fessenden
Elisha Gray
Oliver Heaviside
Erna Schneider Hoover
Harold Hopkins
Internet pioneers
Bob Kahn
Dawon Kahng
Charles K. Kao
Narinder Singh Kapany
Hedy Lamarr
Innocenzo Manzetti
Guglielmo Marconi
Robert Metcalfe
Antonio Meucci
Jun-ichi Nishizawa
Radia Perlman
Alexander Stepanovich Popov
Johann Philipp Reis
Claude Shannon
Henry Sutton
Nikola Tesla
Camille Tissot
Alfred Vail
Charles Wheatstone
Vladimir K. Zworykin
Transmissionmedia
Coaxial cable
Fiber-optic communication
optical fiber
Free-space optical communication
Molecular communication
Radio waves
wireless
Transmission line
data transmission circuit
telecommunication circuit
Network topologyand switching
Bandwidth
Links
Nodes
terminal
Network switching
circuit
packet
Telephone exchange
Multiplexing
Space-division
Frequency-division
Time-division
Polarization-division
Orbital angular-momentum
Code-division
Concepts
Communication protocols
Computer network
Data transmission
Store and forward
Telecommunications equipment
Types of network
Cellular network
Ethernet
ISDN
LAN
Mobile
NGN
Public Switched Telephone
Radio
Television
Telex
UUCP
WAN
Wireless network
Notable networks
ARPANET
BITNET
CYCLADES
FidoNet
Internet
Internet2
JANET
NPL network
Usenet
Locations (by regions)
Africa
Americas
North
South
Antarctica
Asia
Europe
Oceania
 Category
 Outline
 Portal
 Commons
Authority control 
GND: 4500079-7
NDL: 01190266
NKC: ph195825
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Online_chat&amp;oldid=974062734"
		Categories: Online chatInternet cultureHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pagesArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from October 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2020All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from May 2010Wikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadView sourceView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةAzərbaycancaБеларускаяभोजपुरीБългарскиBosanskiCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიLumbaartMagyarമലയാളംBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsRipoarischRomânăРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 20 August 2020, at 21:42 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
