	Saint Dominic
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from St. Dominic)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Castilian Catholic priest and founder of the Dominican Order
For the village in Cornwall, see St Dominic, Cornwall. For places named after Saint Dominic, or other saints named Dominic, see St Dominic (disambiguation).
SaintDominicSanto Domingo de Guzmán, portrait by the Spanish painter Claudio Coello in 1670Founder of the Dominican Order Religious PriestBorn8 August 1170Caleruega, Kingdom of Castile (present-day Castile-Leon, Spain)Died6 August 1221(1221-08-06) (aged 50)Bologna (present-day Emilia-Romagna, Italy)Venerated inCatholic ChurchAnglican CommunionLutheranismCanonized13 July 1234, Reiti Cathedral by Pope Gregory IXMajor shrineBasilica of San DomenicoFeast8 August4 August (pre-1970 General Roman Calendar)AttributesDominican habit, dog, star, lilies, book, staff, and a rosaryPatronageAstronomers; astronomy; Dominican Republic; Santo Domingo Pueblo, Valletta, Birgu (Malta), Campana, Calabria, Managua
Saint Dominic (Spanish: Santo Domingo), also known as Dominic of Osma and Dominic of Caleruega, often called Dominic de Guzmán and Domingo Félix de Guzmán (/ɡʊzˈmɑːn/; Spanish: [ɣuθˈman]; 8 August 1170 – 6 August 1221), was a Castilian Catholic priest and founder of the Dominican Order. Dominic is the patron saint of astronomers. 
According to Guiraud, Dominic abstained from meat, "observed stated fasts and periods of silence", "selected the worst accommodations and the meanest clothes", and "never allowed himself the luxury of a bed". "When travelling, he beguiled the journey with spiritual instruction and prayers." Guiraud also states that Dominic frequently traveled barefoot and "rain and other discomforts elicited from his lips nothing but praises to God."
Contents
1 Life
1.1 Birth and early life
1.2 Education and early career
1.3 Foundation of the Dominicans
1.4 Later life
2 Inquisition
3 Rosary
4 See also
5 References
6 Bibliography
7 External links
Life[edit]
Birth and early life[edit]
Dominic was born in Caleruega,[1] halfway between Osma and Aranda de Duero in Old Castile, Spain. He was named after Saint Dominic of Silos. The Benedictine abbey of Santo Domingo de Silos lies a few miles north of Caleruega.
In the earliest narrative source, by Jordan of Saxony, Dominic's parents are not named. The story is told that before his birth his barren mother made a pilgrimage to the Abbey at Silos, and dreamt that a dog leapt from her womb carrying a flaming torch in its mouth, and seemed to set the earth on fire. This story is likely to have emerged when his order became known, after his name, as the Dominican order, Dominicanus in Latin and a play on words interpreted as Domini canis: "Dog of the Lord."[2] Jordan adds that Dominic was brought up by his parents and a maternal uncle who was an archbishop.[3] The failure to name his parents is not unusual, since Jordan wrote a history of the Order's early years, rather than a biography of Dominic. A later source, still of the 13th century, gives their names as Juana and Felix.[4] Nearly a century after Dominic's birth, a local author asserted that Dominic's father was "vir venerabilis et dives in populo suo" ("an honoured and wealthy man in his village").[5] The travel narrative of Pero Tafur, written circa 1439 (about a pilgrimage to Dominic's tomb in Italy), states that Dominic's father belonged to the family de Guzmán, and that his mother belonged to the Aça or Aza family.[6] Dominic's mother, Jane of Aza, was beatified by Pope Leo XII in 1828.
Education and early career[edit]
  A picture of St Dominic accompanied by Simon de Montfort raising the crucifix against the Cathars by Daniel van den Dyck
Dominic was educated in the schools of Palencia (they became a university soon afterward) where he devoted six years to the arts and four to theology. In 1191, when Spain was desolated by famine,[7] young Dominic gave away his money and sold his clothes, furniture, and even precious manuscripts to feed the hungry. Dominic reportedly told his astonished fellow students, "Would you have me study off these dead skins when men are dying of hunger?"[8] In 1194, around age twenty-five, Dominic joined the Canons Regular in the canonry in the Cathedral of Osma, following the rule of Saint Augustine.
In 1203 or 1204 he accompanied Diego de Acebo, the Bishop of Osma, on a diplomatic mission for Alfonso VIII, King of Castile, to secure a bride in Denmark for crown prince Ferdinand.[9] The envoys traveled to Denmark via Aragon and the south of France. The marriage negotiations ended successfully, but the princess died before leaving for Castile.[1]
Around 1205, Dominic, along with Diego de Acebo, began a program in the south of France, to convert the Cathars, a Christian religious sect with gnostic and dualistic beliefs, which the Roman Catholic Church deemed heretical. As part of this, Catholic-Cathar public debates were held at Verfeil, Servian, Pamiers, Montréal and elsewhere. Dominic concluded that only preachers who displayed real sanctity, humility and asceticism could win over convinced Cathar believers. However, even Dominic managed only a few converts among the Cathars.
Foundation of the Dominicans[edit]
  Saint Dominic's House in Toulouse
In 1215, Dominic established himself, with six followers, in a house given by Peter Seila, a rich resident of Toulouse.[10] Dominic saw the need for a new type of organization to address the spiritual needs of the growing cities of the era, one that would combine dedication and systematic education, with more organizational flexibility than either monastic orders or the secular clergy. He subjected himself and his companions to the monastic rules of prayer and penance; and meanwhile Bishop Foulques gave them written authority to preach throughout the territory of Toulouse.[11]
Also in 1215, the year of the Fourth Lateran Council, Dominic and Foulques went to Rome to secure the approval of the Pope, Innocent III. Dominic returned to Rome a year later, and was finally granted written authority in December 1216 and January 1217 by the new pope, Honorius III for an order to be named "The Order of Preachers" ("Ordo Praedicatorum", or "O.P.," popularly known as the Dominicans or Order of Preachers)
In the winter of 1216–1217, at the house of Ugolino de' Conti, Dominic first met William of Montferrat, who joined Dominic as a friar in the Order of Preachers and remained a close friend.[12]
Later life[edit]
Blessed Cecilia Caesarini, who was received by Dominic into his new order, in her old age described him as "...thin and of middle height. His face was handsome and somewhat fair. He had reddish hair and beard and beautiful eyes ... His hands were long and fine and his voice pleasingly resonant. He never got bald, though he wore the full tonsure, which was mingled with a few grey hairs."[13]
  Saint Dominic in prayer by El Greco
Although he traveled extensively to maintain contact with his growing brotherhood of friars,[14] Dominic made his headquarters in Rome.[15] In 1219, Pope Honorius III invited Dominic and his companions to take up residence at the ancient Roman basilica of Santa Sabina, which they did by early 1220. Before that time the friars had only a temporary residence in Rome at the convent of San Sisto Vecchio, which Honorius III had given to Dominic circa 1218, intending it to become a convent for a reformation of nuns at Rome under Dominic's guidance. The official foundation of the Dominican convent at Santa Sabina with its studium conventuale, the first Dominican studium in Rome, occurred with the legal transfer of property from Pope Honorius III to the Order of Preachers on 5 June 1222, though the brethren had taken up residence there already in 1220.[16] The studium at Santa Sabina was the forerunner of the studium generale at Santa Maria sopra Minerva. The latter would be transformed in the 16th century into the College of Saint Thomas (Latin: Collegium Divi Thomæ), and then in the 20th century into the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum sited at the convent of Saints Dominic and Sixtus.
Dominic arrived in Bologna on 21 December 1218.[17] A convent was established at the Mascarella church by the Blessed Reginald of Orleans.[18] Soon afterwards they had to move to the church of San Nicolò of the Vineyards[19] Dominic settled in this church and held here the first two General Chapters of the order.(Guiraud 1913, pp. 126, 140)
According to Guiraud, Dominic abstained from meat,[20] "observed stated fasts and periods of silence",[21] "selected the worst accommodations and the meanest clothes", and "never allowed himself the luxury of a bed".[22] "When travelling, he beguiled the journey with spiritual instruction and prayers".[23] Guiraud also states that Dominic frequently traveled barefoot and that "rain and other discomforts elicited from his lips nothing but praises to God".[24]
Dominic died at the age of fifty-one, according to Guiraud "exhausted with the austerities and labours of his career".[25] He had reached the convent of St Nicholas at Bologna, Italy, "weary and sick with a fever".[25] Guiraud states that Dominic "made the monks lay him on some sacking stretched upon the ground"[25] and that "the brief time that remained to him was spent in exhorting his followers to have charity, to guard their humility, and to make their treasure out of poverty".[26] He died at noon on 6 August 1221. His body was moved to a simple sarcophagus in 1233.[27] Under the authority of Pope Gregory IX, Dominic was canonized in 1234. In 1267 Dominic's remains were moved to the shrine, made by Nicola Pisano and his workshop.[28]
Inquisition[edit]
  St Dominic presiding over an Auto da fe, by Pedro Berruguete, c. 1495[29]
Canon 27 of the Third Council of the Lateran of 1179 stressed the duty of princes to repress heresy and condemned "the Brabantians, Aragonese, Basques, Navarrese, and others who practice such cruelty toward Christians that they respect neither churches nor monasteries, spare neither widows nor orphans, neither age nor sex, but after the manner of pagans, destroy and lay waste everything".[30] This was followed in 1184 by a decretal of Pope Lucius III, Ad abolendam. This decreed that bishops were to investigate the presence of heresy within their respective dioceses. Practices and procedures of episcopal inquisitions could vary from one diocese to another, depending on the resources available to individual bishops and their relative interest or disinterest. Convinced that Church teaching contained revealed truth, the first recourse of bishops was that of persuasio. Through discourse, debates, and preaching, they sought to present a better explanation of Church teaching. This approach often proved very successful.[31]
Historical sources from Dominic's own time period reveal nothing about his involvement in the Inquisition.[32] Dominic died in 1221, and the office of the Inquisition was not established until 1231 in Lombardy and 1234 in Languedoc.[33]
In 1231 Pope Gregory IX appointed a number of Papal Inquisitors, mostly Dominicans and Franciscans, for the various regions of Europe. As mendicants, they were accustomed to travel. Unlike the haphazard episcopal methods, the papal inquisition was thorough and systematic, keeping detailed records. This tribunal or court functioned in France, Italy and parts of Germany and had virtually ceased operation by the early fourteenth century.[34] 
In the 15th century, the Spanish Inquisition commissioned the artist Pedro Berruguete to depict Dominic presiding at an auto da fé. Thus, the Spanish inquisitors promoted a historical legend for the sake of auto-justification.[35] Reacting against the Spanish tribunals, 16th- and 17th-century Protestant polemicists gladly developed and perpetuated the legend of Dominic the Inquisitor.[36] This image gave German Protestant critics of the Catholic Church an argument against the Dominican Order whose preaching had proven to be a formidable opponent in the lands of the Reformation.[37] As Edward Peters notes, "In Protestant historiography of the sixteenth century a kind of anti-cult of St. Dominic grew up."[36]
Rosary[edit]
Main article: Rosary
  The vision of St. Dominic receiving the Rosary from the Virgin by Bernardo Cavallino
The spread of the Rosary, a Marian devotion, is attributed to the preaching of Dominic.[38][39]  For centuries the Rosary has been at the heart of the Dominican Order. Pope Pius XI stated, "The Rosary of Mary is the principle and foundation on which the very Order of Saint Dominic rests for making perfect the life of its members and obtaining the salvation of others." For centuries, Dominicans have been instrumental in spreading the Rosary and emphasizing the Catholic belief in The Power of the Rosary.[40]
The feast of Saint Dominic is celebrated with great pomp and devotion in Malta, in the old city of Birgu and the capital city Valletta. The Dominican order has very strong links with Malta and Saint Pope Pius V, a Dominican friar himself, aided the Knights of St. John to build the city of Valletta.[41]
See also[edit]
Arca di San Domenico: shrine containing the remains of Dominic
Vardapet; traveling preachers of the Armenian Church
Mother Marie-Anastasie
Pattern of Urlaur: local Irish feast to honor Dominic
Lives of the brethren: commissioned by the General Chapter of 1256 to document the lives of early Dominicans
Everton F.C., originally named Saint Domingo's F.C.
Religiosam vitam
Nos attendentes
Saint Dominic in Soriano, a miraculous painting of 1530
Saint Dominic, patron saint archive
San Domenico di Guzman, a 1997 oratorio based on Dominic's life
Statues of Madonna, Saint Dominic and Thomas Aquinas, Charles Bridge
Basilica of St. Dominic, Valletta (Malta)
References[edit]
^ a b "Saint Dominic", Lay Dominicans Archived 13 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ Walsh, Michael J., "Joan of Aza", A New Dictionary of Saints, Liturgical Press, 2007 .mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}ISBN 9780814631867
^ Libellus de principiis, 4.
^ Pedro Ferrando, "Legenda Sancti Dominici, 4."
^ Cerrato, Rodrigo de Vita S. Dominic
^ Pero Tafur, Andanças e viajes (tr. Malcolm Letts, p. 31). Tafur's book is dedicated to a member of the de Guzmán family.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 7.
^ Thomsett, Michael C., The Inquisition: A History,(McFarland, 2010), p. 54
^ Jordan of Saxony, Libellus de principiis pp. 14–20; Gérard de Frachet, Chronica prima [MOPH 1.321].
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 65–66.
^ French translation of Foulques' 1215 letter Archived 11 January 2012 at the Wayback Machine
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 137.
^ "Life of St. Dominic", Dominicans of Canada
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 129.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 91.
^ Pierre Mandonnet, O.P. (1948) St. Dominic and His Work Archived 18 June 2012 at the Wayback Machine, Translated by Sister Mary Benedicta Larkin, O.P., B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis/London, Chapt. III, note 50: "If the installation at Santa Sabina does not date from 1220, at least it is from 1221. The official grant was made only in June 1222 (Bullarium O.P., I, 15). But the terms of the bull show that there had been a concession earlier. Before that concession the Pope said that the friars had no hospitium in Rome. At that time St. Sixtus was no longer theirs; Conrad of Metz could not have alluded to St. Sixtus, therefore, when he said in 1221: "the Pope has conferred on them a house in Rome" (Laurent no. 136). It is possible that the Pope was waiting for the completion of the building that he was having done at Santa Sabina, before giving the title to the property, on 5 June 1222, to the new Master of the Order, elected not many days before." Accessed 20 May 2012.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 112.
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 111–113.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 115.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 156.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 116.
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 130, 176.
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 130–132.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 130.
^ a b c Guiraud 1913, p. 172.
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 173–175.
^ Guiraud 1913, pp. 175, 181.
^ Guiraud 1913, p. 181.
^ *Page of the painting at Prado Museum.
^ Sullivan, Karen. Truth and the heretic: crises of knowledge in medieval French literature, (University of Chicago Press, 2005) p. 120
^ Peters, Edward (1988). Inquisition. Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-06630-8
^ See Bernard Hamilton (1981) The Medieval Inquisition, pp. 36–37, New York: Holmes &amp; Meier; Simon Tugwell (1982) Early Dominicans: Selected Writings, p. 114, note 90, Ramsey, New Jersey: Paulist Press
^ Guy Bedouelle (1981) St. Dominic: The Grace of the Word, p. 185, San Francisco: Ignatius Press
^ "Medieval Inquisition", Univ. of St. Thomas
^ Edward Peters (1988) Inquisition, p. 223, New York: The Free Press
^ a b Peters, Inquisition, p.223
^ Peters, Inquisition, p. 129
^  Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "The Rosary". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
^ William Saunders, History of the Rosary, Eternal Word Television Network
^ History of the Dominicans (2014)  Dominican Shrine of St. Jude, New Priory Press
^ Robert Feeney. "St. Dominic and the Rosary". Catholic.net. Archived from the original on 8 June 2008. Retrieved 11 July 2008.
Bibliography[edit]
Bedouelle, Guy (1995). Saint Dominic: The Grace of the Word. Ignatius Press. ISBN 0-89870-531-2. An excerpt is available online: "The Holy Inquisition: Dominic and the Dominicans"
Finn, Richard (2016). Dominic and the Order of Preachers. London: Catholic Truth Society. ISBN 9781784691011. Retrieved 20 February 2016. Cite has empty unknown parameter: |authormask= (help)
Goergen, Donald J. (2016). Saint Dominic: The Story of a Preaching Friar. New York: The Paulist Press. ISBN 978-08091-4954-4.
Guiraud, Jean (1913). Saint Dominic. Duckworth.
Francis C. Lehner, ed., St Dominic: biographical documents. Washington: Thomist Press, 1964 Full text
McGonigle, Thomas; Zagano, Phyllis (2006). The Dominican Tradition. Collegeville, MN: The Liturgical Press. ISBN 978-0-8146-1911-7.
Pierre Mandonnet, M. H. Vicaire, St. Dominic and His Work. Saint Louis, 1948 Full text at Dominican Central
Catholic Encyclopedia: St. Dominic by John B. O'Conner, 1909.
Tugwell, Simon (1982). Early Dominicans: Selected Writings. New York: Paulist Press. ISBN 978-0-8091-2414-5.
Vicaire, M.H. (1964). Saint Dominic and his Times. Translated by Kathleen Pond. Green Bay, Wisconsin: Alt Publishing. ASIN B0000CMEWR.
Wishart, Alfred Wesley (1900). A Short History of Monks and Monasteries. Freely available eText. Project Gutenberg.
Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975). "Saint Dominic".  In Bautz, Friedrich Wilhelm (ed.). Biographisch-Bibliographisches Kirchenlexikon (BBKL) (in German). 1. Hamm: Bautz. cols. 1356–1358. ISBN 3-88309-013-1.
Guy Bedouelle: Dominikus – Von der Kraft des Wortes. Styria, Graz/ Wien/ Köln 1984, ISBN 3-222-11513-3.
Jean-René Bouchet: Dominikus: Gefährte der Verirrten. from the Franz. von Michael Marsch. publisher's current texts, Heiligenkreuztal, 1989, ISBN 3-921312-37-X.
Peter Dyckhoff: Mit Leib und Seele beten. Illustrations and text of a mediaeval manuscript about the new form of prayer by Saint Dominic. ISBN 3-451-28231-3.
Paul D. Hellmeier: Dominikus begegnen. St.Ulrich Verlag, Augsburg, 2007, ISBN 978-3-936484-92-2.
Wolfram Hoyer (ed.): Jordan von Sachsen. Von den Anfängen des Predigerordens. (Dominikanische Quellen und Zeugnisse; Vol. 3). Benno, Leipzig, 2002, ISBN 3-7462-1574-9.
Meinolf Lohrum: Dominikus. Benno, Leipzig, 1987, ISBN 3-7462-0047-4.
Meinolf Lohrum: Dominikus. Beter und Prediger. M. Grünewald, Mainz, 1990, ISBN 3-7867-1136-4.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Saint Dominic.
"Website of Dominicans Friars (Ordo Predicatorum, OP)".
"St. Dominic: Biographical Documents". OP Center of Study. Archived from the original on 28 August 2018.
"Founder Statue in St Peter's Basilica". Archived from the original on 12 January 2018.
""Here Followeth of St. Dominic" in the Golden Legend". Archived from the original on 7 January 2018. (translation by W. Caxton, First Edition in 1483)
"Saint Dominic" in the Ecumenical Lexicon of Saints
vteHistory of Catholic theologyKey figuresGeneral
History of the Catholic Church
Timeline
History of the papacy
Papal primacy
Ecumenical councils
Catholic Bible
Vulgate
Biblical canon
History of Christian theology
Early Church
Paul
Clement of Rome
First Epistle of Clement
Didache
Ignatius of Antioch
Polycarp
Epistle of Barnabas
The Shepherd of Hermas
Aristides of Athens
Justin Martyr
Epistle to Diognetus
Irenaeus
Montanism
Tertullian
Origen
Antipope Novatian
Cyprian
Constantine toPope Gregory I
Eusebius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Arianism
Pelagianism
Nestorianism
Monophysitism
Ephrem the Syrian
Hilary of Poitiers
Cyril of Jerusalem
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Ambrose
John Chrysostom
Jerome
Augustine of Hippo
John Cassian
Orosius
Cyril of Alexandria
Peter Chrysologus
Pope Leo I
Boethius
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite
Pope Gregory I
Early Middle Ages
Isidore of Seville
John Climacus
Maximus the Confessor
Monothelitism
Ecthesis
Bede
John of Damascus
Iconoclasm
Transubstantiation dispute
Predestination disputes
Paulinus II of Aquileia
Alcuin
Benedict of Aniane
Rabanus Maurus
Paschasius Radbertus
John Scotus Eriugena
High Middle Ages
Roscellinus
Gregory of Narek
Berengar of Tours
Peter Damian
Anselm of Canterbury
Joachim of Fiore
Peter Abelard
Decretum Gratiani
Bernard of Clairvaux
Peter Lombard
Anselm of Laon
Hildegard of Bingen
Hugh of Saint Victor
Dominic de Guzmán
Robert Grosseteste
Francis of Assisi
Anthony of Padua
Beatrice of Nazareth
Bonaventure
Albertus Magnus
Boetius of Dacia
Henry of Ghent
Thomas Aquinas
Siger of Brabant
Thomism
Roger Bacon
Mysticism and reforms
Ramon Llull
Duns Scotus
Dante Alighieri
William of Ockham
Richard Rolle
John of Ruusbroec
Catherine of Siena
Bridget of Sweden
Meister Eckhart
Johannes Tauler
Walter Hilton
The Cloud of Unknowing
Heinrich Seuse
Geert Groote
Devotio Moderna
Julian of Norwich
Thomas à Kempis
Nicholas of Cusa
Marsilio Ficino
Girolamo Savonarola
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola
ReformationCounter-Reformation
Erasmus
Thomas Cajetan
Thomas More
John Fisher
Johann Eck
Francisco de Vitoria
Thomas of Villanova
Ignatius of Loyola
Francisco de Osuna
John of Ávila
Francis Xavier
Teresa of Ávila
Luis de León
John of the Cross
Peter Canisius
Luis de Molina (Molinism)
Robert Bellarmine
Francisco Suárez
Lawrence of Brindisi
Francis de Sales
Baroque period toFrench Revolution
Tommaso Campanella
Pierre de Bérulle
Pierre Gassendi
René Descartes
Mary of Jesus of Ágreda
António Vieira
Jean-Jacques Olier
Louis Thomassin
Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet
François Fénelon
Cornelius Jansen (Jansenism)
Blaise Pascal
Nicolas Malebranche
Giambattista Vico
Alphonsus Liguori
Louis de Montfort
Maria Gaetana Agnesi
Alfonso Muzzarelli
Johann Michael Sailer
Clement Mary Hofbauer
Bruno Lanteri
19th century
Joseph Görres
Felicité de Lamennais
Luigi Taparelli
Antonio Rosmini
Ignaz von Döllinger
John Henry Newman
Henri Lacordaire
Jaime Balmes
Gaetano Sanseverino
Giovanni Maria Cornoldi
Wilhelm Emmanuel Freiherr von Ketteler
Giuseppe Pecci
Joseph Hergenröther
Tommaso Maria Zigliara
Matthias Joseph Scheeben
Émile Boutroux
Modernism
Neo-Scholasticism
Léon Bloy
Désiré-Joseph Mercier
Friedrich von Hügel
Vladimir Solovyov
Marie-Joseph Lagrange
George Tyrrell
Maurice Blondel
Thérèse of Lisieux
20th century
G. K. Chesterton
Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange
Joseph Maréchal
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin
Jacques Maritain
Étienne Gilson
Ronald Knox
Dietrich von Hildebrand
Gabriel Marcel
Marie-Dominique Chenu
Romano Guardini
Edith Stein
Fulton Sheen
Henri de Lubac
Daniel-Rops
Jean Guitton
Josemaría Escrivá
Nouvelle théologie
Karl Rahner
Yves Congar
Bernard Lonergan
Emmanuel Mounier
Jean Daniélou
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Alfred Delp
Thomas Merton
René Girard
Johann Baptist Metz
Jean Vanier
Henri Nouwen
21st century
Carlo Maria Martini
Pope Benedict XVI
Walter Kasper
Raniero Cantalamessa
Michał Heller
Peter Kreeft
Jean-Luc Marion
Tomáš Halík
Scott Hahn
 Catholicism portal
vteSaints of the Catholic ChurchStages of canonization: Servant of God   →   Venerable   →   Blessed   →   SaintVirgin Mary
Mother of God (Theotokos)
Immaculate Conception
Perpetual virginity
Assumption
Marian apparition
Titles of Mary
Joseph (husband)
Apostles
Andrew
Barnabas
Bartholomew
James of Alphaeus
James the Great
John
Jude
Matthew
Matthias
Paul
Peter
Philip
Simon
Thomas
Archangels
Gabriel
Michael
Raphael
Confessors
Anatolius
Athanasius the Confessor
Chariton the Confessor
Dominic
Edward the Confessor
Francis of Assisi
Francis Borgia
Louis Bertrand
Maximus the Confessor
Michael of Synnada
Paphnutius the Confessor
Paul I of Constantinople
Peter Claver
Salonius
Seraphim of Sarov
Theophanes the Confessor
Disciples
Apollos
Mary Magdalene
Priscilla and Aquila
Silvanus
Stephen
Timothy
Titus
Seventy disciples
Doctors
Gregory the Great
Ambrose
Augustine of Hippo
Jerome
John Chrysostom
Basil of Caesarea
Gregory of Nazianzus
Athanasius of Alexandria
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
John of Damascus
Bede the Venerable
Ephrem the Syrian
Thomas Aquinas
Bonaventure
Anselm of Canterbury
Isidore of Seville
Peter Chrysologus
Leo the Great
Peter Damian
Bernard of Clairvaux
Hilary of Poitiers
Alphonsus Liguori
Francis de Sales
Peter Canisius
John of the Cross
Robert Bellarmine
Albertus Magnus
Anthony of Padua
Lawrence of Brindisi
Teresa of Ávila
Catherine of Siena
Thérèse of Lisieux
John of Ávila
Hildegard of Bingen
Gregory of Narek
Evangelists
Matthew
Mark
Luke
John
ChurchFathers
Alexander of Alexandria
Alexander of Jerusalem
Ambrose of Milan
Anatolius
Athanasius of Alexandria
Augustine of Hippo
Caesarius of Arles
Caius
Cappadocian Fathers
Clement of Alexandria
Clement of Rome
Cyprian of Carthage
Cyril of Alexandria
Cyril of Jerusalem
Damasus I
Desert Fathers
Desert Mothers
Dionysius of Alexandria
Dionysius of Corinth
Dionysius
Ephrem the Syrian
Epiphanius of Salamis
Fulgentius of Ruspe
Gregory the Great
Gregory of Nazianzus
Gregory of Nyssa
Hilary of Poitiers
Hippolytus of Rome
Ignatius of Antioch
Irenaeus of Lyons
Isidore of Seville
Jerome of Stridonium
John Chrysostom
John of Damascus
Maximus the Confessor
Melito of Sardis
Quadratus of Athens
Papias of Hierapolis
Peter Chrysologus
Polycarp of Smyrna
Theophilus of Antioch
Victorinus of Pettau
Vincent of Lérins
Zephyrinus
Martyrs
Canadian Martyrs
Carthusian Martyrs
Child Martyrs of Tlaxcala
Dismas the Good Thief
Forty Martyrs of England and Wales
Four Crowned Martyrs
Gerard of Csanád
Great Martyr
The Holy Innocents
Irish Martyrs
Joan of Arc
John Fisher
Korean Martyrs
Lorenzo Ruiz
Lübeck martyrs
Luigi Versiglia
Martyrology
Martyrs of Albania
Martyrs of China
Martyrs of Japan
Martyrs of Laos
Martyrs of Natal
Martyrs of Otranto
Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
Maximilian Kolbe
Óscar Romero
Pedro Calungsod
Perpetua and Felicity
Peter Chanel
Pietro Parenzo
Philomena
Saints of the Cristero War
Stephen
Teresa Benedicta of the Cross
Thomas Becket
Thomas More
Three Martyrs of Chimbote
Uganda Martyrs
Vietnamese Martyrs
Valentine of Rome
Victor and Corona
Missionaries
Augustine of Canterbury
Boniface
Damien of Molokai
Francis Xavier
François de Laval
Gregory the Illuminator
Junípero Serra
Nico of Georgia
Patrick of Ireland
Remigius
Patriarchs
Adam
Abel
Abraham
Isaac
Jacob
Joseph
Joseph (father of Jesus)
David
Noah
Solomon
Matriarchs
Popes
Adeodatus I
Adeodatus II
Adrian III
Agapetus I
Agatho
Alexander I
Anacletus
Anastasius I
Anicetus
Anterus
Benedict II
Boniface I
Boniface IV
Caius
Callixtus I
Celestine I
Celestine V
Clement I
Cornelius
Damasus I
Dionysius
Eleuterus
Eugene I
Eusebius
Eutychian
Evaristus
Fabian
Felix I
Felix III
Felix IV
Gelasius I
Gregory I
Gregory II
Gregory III
Gregory VII
Hilarius
Hormisdas
Hyginus
Innocent I
John I
John XXIII
John Paul II
Julius I
Leo I
Leo II
Leo III
Leo IV
Leo IX
Linus
Lucius I
Marcellinus
Marcellus I
Mark
Martin I
Miltiades
Nicholas I
Paschal I
Paul I
Paul VI
Peter
Pius I
Pius V
Pius X
Pontian
Sergius I
Silverius
Simplicius
Siricius
Sixtus I
Sixtus II
Sixtus III
Soter
Stephen I
Stephen IV
Sylvester I
Symmachus
Telesphorus
Urban I
Victor I
Vitalian
Zachary
Zephyrinus
Zosimus
Prophets
Agabus
Amos
Anna
Baruch ben Neriah
David
Dalua
Elijah
Ezekiel
Habakkuk
Haggai
Hosea
Isaiah
Jeremiah
Job
Joel
John the Baptist
Jonah
Judas Barsabbas
Malachi
Melchizedek
Micah
Moses
Nahum
Obadiah
Samuel
Seven Maccabees and their mother
Simeon
Zechariah (prophet)
Zechariah (NT)
Zephaniah
Virgins
Agatha of Sicily
Agnes of Rome
Angela of the Cross
Æthelthryth
Bernadette Soubirous
Brigid of Kildare
Catherine Labouré
Catherine of Siena
Cecilia
Clare of Assisi
Eulalia of Mérida
Euphemia
Faustina Kowalska
Genevieve
Kateri Tekakwitha
Lucy of Syracuse
Maria Goretti
Teresa of Calcutta
Narcisa de Jesús
Rose of Lima
See also
Calendar of saints
Fourteen Holy Helpers
Military saints
Athleta Christi
Miles Christianus
Church Militant
Virtuous pagan
 Catholic Church portal
 Saints portal
Biography portalCatholicism portalSaints portalSpain portalItaly portal
Authority control 
BIBSYS: 2052087
BNE: XX1157796
BNF: cb12040448c (data)
CANTIC: a10527643
GND: 118526642
ISNI: 0000 0001 2122 2823
LCCN: n80040154
LNB: 000242102
NDL: 00620591
NKC: jn20000700417
NLA: 53004772
NLI: 000427674
NSK: 000066080
NTA: 070562768
RERO: 02-A000052419
SELIBR: 184336
SNAC: w67m1jm8
SUDOC: 028601726
Trove: 1533214
ULAN: 500354832
VcBA: 495/23695
VIAF: 17240904
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n80040154
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Saint_Dominic&amp;oldid=982032638"
		Categories: 1170 births1221 deathsPeople from the Province of BurgosSpanish DominicansDominican saintsSpanish Christian theologiansFounders of Catholic religious communitiesSpanish Roman Catholic saintsMarian visionariesDominican spirituality13th-century Christian saintsBurials at the Basilica of San DomenicoPre-Reformation saints of the Lutheran liturgical calendarPre-Reformation Anglican saintsMasters of the Order of PreachersMedieval Spanish theologiansHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia without Wikisource referenceArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from August 2020Articles containing Spanish-language textArticles containing Latin-language textCS1 errors: empty unknown parametersCS1 German-language sources (de)Commons category link is on WikidataWikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiersWikipedia articles with BNE identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with LNB identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with NKC identifiersWikipedia articles with NLA identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with NSK identifiersWikipedia articles with NTA identifiersWikipedia articles with RERO identifiersWikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiersWikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiersWikipedia articles with Trove identifiersWikipedia articles with ULAN identifiersWikipedia articles with VcBA identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikisource
		Languages
		العربيةAsturianuAymar aruБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиBoarischBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתJawaKabɩyɛKiswahiliLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureMagyarമലയാളംMaltiNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålOccitanPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 5 October 2020, at 20:17 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
