	1963 Syrian coup d'état
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
@media all and (min-width:720px){.mw-parser-output .desktop-float-right{box-sizing:border-box;float:right;clear:right}}.mw-parser-output .infobox.vevent .status>p:first-child{margin:0}1963 Syrian coup d'étatإنقلاب  
الثامن من آذارPart of the Arab Cold WarMilitary Committee members Salim Hatum (left), Muhammad Umran (center) and Salah Jadid (right) celebrate the coup's successDate8 March 1963LocationSyrian RepublicResult
Overthrow of Nazim al-KudsiBeginning of Ba'athist ruleBelligerents
 Syrian Republic
 Military committee of the Syrian Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath PartyCommanders and leaders
Nazim al-Kudsi (President of Syria)Khalid al-Azm (Prime Minister of Syria)
Ziad al-HaririMuhammad UmranSalah JadidHafez al-AssadRashid al-QutayniMuhammad al-SufiJassem AlwanCasualties and losses
820 killed[1]
The 1963 Syrian coup d'état, referred to by the Syrian government as the 8 March Revolution (Arabic: ثورة الثامن من آذار‎), was the successful seizure of power in Syria by the military committee of the Syrian Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party. The planning and the unfolding conspiracy was inspired by the Iraqi Regional Branch's  successful military coup.
The coup was planned by the military committee, rather than the Ba'ath Party's civilian leadership, but Michel Aflaq, the leader of the party, consented to the conspiracy. The leading members of the military committee throughout the planning process and in the immediate aftermath of taking power were Muhammad Umran, Salah Jadid and Hafez al-Assad. The committee enlisted the support of two Nasserists, Rashid al-Qutayni and Muhammad al-Sufi, and the independent Ziad al-Hariri. The coup was originally planned for 7 March, but was postponed one day after the government discovered where the conspirators were planning to assemble.
Contents
1 Background
1.1 Events leading up to the coup
1.2 Economic and social context
2 Planning
3 The coup
4 Immediate aftermath
4.1 Purges and failed coup of 18 July
5 See also
6 Notes and references
6.1 Notes
6.2 References
6.3 Bibliography
Background[edit]
Events leading up to the coup[edit]
Part of a series onBaathism
OrganisationsArab Baath1940–1947Arab Baath Movement1940–1947Baath Party1947–1966Baath Party (pro-Iraqi)1968–2003Baath Party (pro-Syrian)1966–present
People
Zaki al-Arsuzi
Michel Aflaq
Salah al-Din al-Bitar
Abdullah Rimawi
Wahib al-Ghanim
Fuad al-Rikabi
Salah Jadid
Hafez al-Assad
Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr
Saddam Hussein
Bashar al-Assad
Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri
Literature
On the Way of Resurrection
The Battle for One Destiny
The Genius of Arabic in Its Tongue
History
Baathist IraqRamadan Revolution
November 1963 coup d'état
17 July Revolution
Iran–Iraq War
Gulf War
UN sanctions
Iraq War
De-Baathification
Baathist SyriaSyrian Committee to Help Iraq
1963 / 1966 coup d'états
Corrective Revolution
Civil War
Regional organisationsAlgeriapro-Iraqpro-SyriaBahrainpro-Iraqpro-SyriaEgyptpro-Iraqpro-SyriaIraqpro-Iraqpro-SyriaJordanpro-Iraqpro-SyriaKuwaitpro-IraqLebanonpro-Iraqpro-SyriaLibyapro-IraqMauritaniapro-Iraqpro-SyriaPalestinepro-Iraqpro-SyriaSudanpro-Iraqpro-SyriaSyriapro-Iraqpro-SyriaTunisiapro-Iraqpro-SyriaYemenpro-Iraqpro-Syria
Splinter groupsArab Socialist Revolutionary Ba'ath Party1960–1962/63Socialist Lebanon1965–1970Arab Revolutionary Workers Party1966–presentDemocratic Socialist Arab Ba'ath Party1970–presentSudanese Ba'ath Party2002–present
Related topics
Arab nationalism
Arab socialism
Nasserism
Pan-Arabism
.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}Politics portalSocialism portalvte
Modern Syria was first established in 1920 as the Arab Kingdom of Syria under King Faisal. This state was planned to be a new Arab kingdom, and not just Syrian, and the state espoused Arab nationalism and pan-Islamic policies. However the British, who had helped establish the state after World War I, made a secret agreement with France and established the French Mandate of Syria and Lebanon. The area thereby functioned as one of France's colonies, and the newly established state was viewed unfavorably by most Syrians, with many of them regarding it as a vassal of European imperialism.[2] At this stage, some movements tried to establish a Syrian identity, most notably the Syrian Social Nationalist Party, or became advocates of communism and Islamism. The majority of Syrians continued to see themselves as Arabs rather than Syrians.[3]
The mandate was feudal in character, and it rested on a semi-liberal oligarchic social base. This system remained unchanged until the establishment of the United Arab Republic (UAR). This system created a class society reflecting urban-rural living patterns. An estimated three thousand families owned half of the land in Syria. The middle class owned the majority of small to medium properties. Some two-thirds of peasants were landless.[4]  Agricultural revenues were highly skewed – the top two percent of the population received 50 percent of the income, while the middle class (merchants or middle landowning groups), which was 18 percent of the population, earned 25 percent of agricultural revenues. The bottom 80 percent received the remainder.[5] The landowner–peasant alliance was based on class differences, and social antagonism between each other – this would lead to the landowner's downfall.[6]
The mandate was dissolved in 1946 because of a British ultimatum to France, and Syria became an independent country on 17 April 1946.[7] The same elite that had governed Syria during the mandate continued in power, and they ruled in the same manner.[8] The failure in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War led to the downfall of the traditional elite and the rise of the military in politics. Husni al-Za'im became the first military dictator of Syria in 1949, but in 1950, military officer Adib Shishakli gained power behind the scenes, and by 1953 had established another military dictatorship. The military's introduction to the Syrian political scene destroyed the oligarchy enabling the middle class to participate in Syrian politics. However, while their powers were weakened, the traditional elite retained the majority of the wealth produced.[9]
It was in this environment that the ideology of Ba'athism came into being. The Arab Ba'ath Movement was established by Michel Aflaq and Salah al-Din al-Bitar in the 1940s, others who played a notable role in the early stages of the Ba'athist movement were Zaki al-Arsuzi, Wahib al-Ghanim and Jallal al-Sayyid. Akram al-Hawrani founded the Arab Socialist Party (ASP) in 1953 – the Ba'ath Party was established through a merger of the ASP and the Arab Ba'ath Party.[10] Of the 150 delegates to the founding congress of the Arab Ba'ath Party in 1947, the majority were either middle-class professionals or intellectuals. By the 1950s the party had managed to acquire an urban middle-class base.[11] However, the Ba'ath Party was not a purely middle-class party, and from the very beginning, it sent party cadres to rural areas to recruit new members and form new party organisations.[12] In 1956, the Ba'ath Party organized the first labour protest in Syrian history.[13] While the Ba'ath Party was strong, its decision to recruit members from across society led to tribalism and clientelism within the party. Party leaders then opted to overlook democratic norms and procedures.[13]
The Ba'ath Party faced a significant dilemma: take power through competitive elections or forceful takeover. Even the liberal and democratic-inclined founding leaders were partial to forceful takeover, citing the corrupt electoral process. Before taking control, the Ba'ath Party gambled that it would be allowed to share power with Gamal Abdel Nasser in the United Arab Republic (UAR).[14] The UAR would prove to be Egypt-dominated, and the Ba'ath Party was forced to dissolve itself, but in 1961 the UAR collapsed because of a military coup in Syria.[15] The establishment and the dissolution of the UAR was a catastrophe for the Ba'ath Party as it divided among those who supported the UAR, those who opposed it and those who opposed or supported the traditional leaders of the party. In 1962, Aflaq convened a Ba'ath Party congress and re-established the party. Several branches had not followed orders and had not dissolved during the UAR years. Instead, they had become deeply hostile to pan-Arabist thought and had become radical socialists instead. The military committee, which would launch the 8 March Revolution, shared most of their views.[16]
Economic and social context[edit]
  Syrian society was feudal in nature, and was dominated by landlords and peasants
The 8 March Revolution has often been viewed as a mere military coup, but it had many of the ingredients of national revolts from below. The revolution was led by an anti-oligarchical alliance of a radicalised lower middle class, strategic members of the officer corps, marginalised minorities and a significant number of peasants who were mobilised for agrarian conflict.[17] In an international context, the revolution took place because the state boundaries established by France were artificial and the hostility within the newly established Syria to the creation of Israel. The traditional elite that took power in Syria when the country gained independence had come to power during the French Mandate of Syria and Lebanon. The external imposition of arbitrary state boundaries on Syria with no corresponding popular acceptance led to discontent. The national struggle was shaped by ideologies such as Arab nationalism, pan-Islamism and Greater Syrianism. The plebeian character of the struggle and the radical ideologies spawned radical solutions to the agrarian problem.[18]
The growth of the new middle class in Syria fueled discontent since the traditional elite dominated the agrarian sector – the largest sector of the economy – and created most of the wealth. The new middle class consisted of capitalists and entrepreneurs who opposed the traditional elite – the monopolisation of power by the traditional elite led to the radicalisation of the new middle-class.[18] The military, which in many countries is conservative and elitist, became radicalised in Syria because the military wanted greater power, believing that the traditional elite was unable to defend the country. A significant group of military personnel were recruited from the new middle class or the hinterlands.[18]
In Syria, ethnic minorities were often underprivileged, and a specific ethnicity usually belonged to a specific social class. The Alawites, the Druzes and the Isma'ilis for instance, were ethnic groups with low social class who began to embrace a radical form of Arab nationalism, e.g. Ba'athism.[19] Without the peasantry there could not have been a Ba'athist revolution in Syria.[19] The new middle class alone could only produce instability, but together with the peasantry, the revolution became possible. The inequality between urban and rural dwellers, together with capitalist penetration of the agrarian sector and the traditional elites' monopolisation of most large revenue sources, led to the establishment of peasant movements who fought for change or opposed the system. The Syrian branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party was able to recruit youth from radical peasant movements and thus was able to mobilise large sectors of the population.[19]
Planning[edit]
In 1962, the military committee of the Syrian Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party spent most of its time planning to take power through a conventional military coup. The military committee decided it had to capture al-Kiswah and Qatana, two military camps, seize control of the 70th Armoured Brigade at al-Kiswah, the Military Academy in the city of Homs and the Damascus radio station. While the conspirators of the military committee were all young, the sitting regime had been slowly disintegrating and the traditional elite had lost effective political power.[20]
For the coup to be successful, the military committee needed to gain the support of some of the Syrian officer corps. The collapse of the UAR, coupled with mutinies, purges and transfers left the officer corps in complete disarray and open to anti-government agitation. At the time, the officer corps was split into five different factions; the Damascus faction which supported the Syrian Government, supporters of Akram al-Hawrani, a Nasserist faction, a Ba'athist faction and a group of independents.[21] The Damascus faction was the enemy of the military committee because of their support for Nazim al-Kudsi's Government and the Hawranist were considered as rivals because of their stance against pan-Arabism. The Nasserists became allies of the Ba'ath, even while they supported Gamal Abdel Nasser and the reestablishment of the UAR.
The military committee's alliance with the Nasserists led to the establishment of secret contact with Colonel Rashid al-Qutayni, the head of the military intelligence, and Colonel Muhammad al-Sufi, the commander of the Homs Brigade.[22] The military committee ordered a group of junior officers to recruit the leading independent Colonel Ziad al-Hariri, the commander of the front facing Israel, to their cause. The group was  successful, and they promised al-Hariri that "If we succeed, you can become chief of staff. If we fail, you can disown us."[23] Al-Hariri supported the committee because Khalid al-Azm, the Prime Minister of Syria, was planning to demote him.[23]
While it planned the coup, the military committee and its members were frowned upon by civilian Ba'athists. The reason for the army–party alliance in the first place was to safeguard the party from repression. The military committee did not look favourably on the civilian leadership led by Michel Aflaq, objecting to his dissolution of the Ba'ath Party during the UAR years. While Aflaq needed the military committee to seize power, the committee needed Aflaq to hold on power – without Aflaq they would have no support base. At the 5th National Ba'ath Party Congress, held on 8 May 1962, it was decided to reestablish the party and keep Aflaq as Secretary General of the National Command. Muhammad Umran, a leading member of the military committee, was a delegate at the 5th National Congress, and told Aflaq of the military committee's intentions – Aflaq consented to the coup, but no agreement was made between him and the committee on how to share power after the coup.[24]
The coup[edit]
  Aflaq, the leader of the party's civilian-wing, and Jadid, a senior figure in the planning of the coup d'état
On 8 February 1963, the Iraqi Regional Branch, led by Ali Salih al-Sa'di, took power in Iraq by overthrowing Abd al-Karim Qasim. He was a far more formidable opponent than al-Kudsi, and the Iraqi Regional Branch managed to take power through an alliance not only with military officers, but also with segments of the middle class.[24] Qasim's downfall changed the rules of Arab politics – the Nasserists had monopolised the Arab nationalist movement since the UAR, but the takeover made the Ba'ath Party a force to be reckoned with. In contrast to the Iraqi regional branch, the Syrian regional branch did not have mass support or a significant support base in the middle class. While Aflaq cautioned the plotters because of the party's lack of support, they failed to share his worries, and planned to launch the coup on 7 March. However, that day the military intelligence raided the apartment where the plotters were planning to assemble. Assad was given the task of reporting to other units that the coup had been postponed to 8 March.[25]
On the night of 7–8 March, tanks and units loyal to the conspiracy began moving on Damascus. Al-Hariri led a brigade from the Syrian front towards Israel, while Ba'athists were able to gain control of a second brigade stationed in Suwayda. Caught in a pincer movement, the commander of the 70th Armoured Brigade, Lieutenant General Abd al-Karim surrendered to the plotters – Umran took over as acting commander of the 70th Armoured Brigade. The potentially hostile unit stationed in Qatana, south-west of Damascus, did not intervene – probably because Widad Bashir had taken control over communications in the Damascus area.[25] With the forces in al-Kiswah defeated and Qatana neutralised, al-Hariri's forces marched upon Damascus and began to set up road-blocks in the city, while at the same time seizing critical facilities such as the central post office.[26] Captain Salim Hatum, a party officer, seized the radio station. The Ministry of Defence headquarters were seized without a fight, and General Zahr al-Din, the commander-in-chief, was put under arrest. Both al-Kudsi and al-Hawrani were easily tracked down and arrested. Salah Jadid bicycled into the city that morning, and captured the Bureau of Officers' Affairs, which later became his personal fiefdom.[26]
Assad led a small group of conspirators to capture the al-Dumayr air base, 40 kilometers (25 mi) north-east of Damascus – the only unit that resisted the coup. Some of its planes had been ordered to bomb rebel positions. The plan was that Assad would lead a company from al-Hariri's brigade to capture the air base before dawn to prevent air strikes. The surrender of the 70th Armoured Brigade took longer than expected, putting Assad's forces behind schedule. When Assad's forces reached the outskirts of the base, it was broad daylight. Assad sent an emissary to tell the commanders that he would start shelling the base if they did not surrender. They negotiated their surrender even though, according to Assad himself, their forces could have defeated his rebel company in combat.[26] Later that morning, the coupmakers convened at the army headquarters to celebrate.[26]
820 people were reported killed during the takeover and another 20 were executed shortly afterwards.[1] The coup was met by indifference in the population at large. Saber Falhout, a Druze who was later known as "the poet of the revolution", wrote and announced the first communique of the plotters. The ninth communique reinstated the five members of the military committee in the armed forces. The senior members of the newly established regime were Umran, Jadid and at last, Assad.[27]
Immediate aftermath[edit]
  The Syrian Regional Branch has ruled the country uninterrupted since 8 March 1963
The first act of the new rulers of Syria was to establish the twenty-man National Council for the Revolutionary Command (NCRC), composed of twelve Ba'athists and eight Nasserists and independents. On 9 March, the NCRC ordered Salah al-Din al-Bitar, one of the Ba'ath Party founders, to form a government, and to implement the policies of the NCRC. Later, six civilians were given membership in NCRC, three Ba'athists (Aflaq, al-Bitar and Mansur al-Atrash) and three Nasserists. However, this did not change the balance of power, and the officers still controlled the country. From the beginning, the military committee members formed state policies behind the backs of other NCRC members – when the civilian leadership found out,  al-Atrash said: "Why do not these gentlemen speak? May I suggest they appoint a liaison officer to communicate their views to us?"[27] From that day, Umran gave the civilians a faint idea of what the committee members were planning.[27]
At the beginning, there were no signs of the quarrels that would destroy the military committee. At the time, the members were bound together by their goal of building a prosperous nation. On 9 March the NCRC released Lu'ay al-Atassi from jail, promoted him to the rank of lieutenant general, appointed him commander-in-chief and NCRC chairman, the de facto head of state. Hariri was appointed chief of staff. While Atassi and Hariri held powerful posts, they did not possess enough personal or political power to threaten the NCRC. The Nasserist officers were also given notable offices with Muhammad al-Sufi becoming Minister of Defence and Rashid al-Qutayni becoming deputy chief of staff. However, the Military Committee, which had expanded its membership with five new members[note 1], ensured that the Ba'athists controlled the real levers of powers. The committee decided state policies before the sessions of the NCRC, and by doing so became the real seat of power.[28]
Umran was first given the command of the 5th Brigade in Homs, but was promoted in June to become commander of the 70th Armoured Brigade. As head of the Bureau of Officers' Affairs, Jadid appointed friends to senior positions, purged his enemies and appointed several Ba'athists to senior positions. Ahmad Suwaydani, one of the new members of the Military Committee, was appointed Head of Military Intelligence and Mazyad Hunaydi became Head of the Military Police. The Military Academy at Homs was put under Ba'athist control—several hundred Ba'athists, including Assad's brother Rifaat al-Assad, were given a crash course in military teaching before being given command.[29] Assad became the de facto head of the Syrian Air Force, a dizzying promotion for a man in his thirties. Considering that the members of the Military Committee were all too young to be perceived as the real leaders of Syria by the populace, the Military Committee appointed Colonel Amin al-Hafiz to the post of Minister of the Interior.[30]
Purges and failed coup of 18 July[edit]
  Tripartite unity talks among Iraqi Prime Minister Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr (left),  Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser (center) and Syrian President Lu'ay al-Atassi (right), 16 April 1963. Relations between Nasser and the Syrian Ba'athists deteriorated weeks later after the purge of Nasserists from the officer corps and Alwan's failed coup. Atassi resigned following the events.
Pressure from consistent pro-Nasser demonstrations in northern Syria and Damascus and from pro-union Ba'athist leaders like Jamal al-Atassi, the Nasserists and the Arab Nationalist Movement (ANM), coupled with the weakness of the Ba'athists at the popular level in Syria, led to unification efforts between the new government and the governments of Egypt and Iraq. The latter's anti-UAR government had also been overthrown by pro-UAR officers in 1963. On 17 April a new stage-based unity agreement was reached that would include the three states in a federal union with Nasser as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.[31][32]
However, between 28 April-2 May, the Ba'athist-dominated Military Committee virtually renounced the agreement when it purged over 50 Nasserist officers from their high-ranking positions in the armed forces, leading to a wide-scale propaganda campaign by Egypt via radio denouncing the Ba'ath (Nasserist-leaning newspapers had been previously shut down.) Mass pro-union rioting in Aleppo, Damascus, Hama and other parts of the country followed. The purges prompted the protest resignations of Nasserist officials, including Defense Minister al-Sufi, Deputy Chief of Staff al-Qutayni, and four other Nasserist cabinet members.[33][note 2]
  Jassem Alwan being tried in a Damascus military court for his failed coup attempt against the Syrian Ba'ath, 1963
Later, on 19 June, Chief of Staff al-Hariri led a high-ranking delegation that included Prime Minister al-Bitar, Aflaq and Education Minister Sami Droubi to Algeria for a state visit.[36] While al-Hariri was away, the Committee used the opportunity to undertake a purge of about 30 elite officers—mostly political independents—under al-Hariri's command.[37][38] Al-Hariri was ordered to take a direct flight to the Syrian embassy in the United States, where he was reassigned as the embassy's military attache. Instead, he returned to Syria via a flight to Beirut on 23 June to protest the Committee's move against him.[39] Unsuccessful, he left the country for France in a self-imposed exile on 8 July. The Committee's virtual ousting of al-Hariri was to the chagrin of al-Bitar, who viewed al-Hariri as the last military counterweight able to check the Committee's domination over his government.[37]
The Nasserists still maintained a relatively high level of strength in the military, despite the purges, and on 18 July, under the leadership of Jassem Alwan and the help of Egyptian intelligence, they attempted to launch a daytime coup against the new government.[40][41] The Army Headquarters, personally defended by al-Hafiz, and the broadcast station were attacked, and the ensuing battle left hundreds of people dead, including several civilian bystanders.[40] The coup attempt failed and 27 participating officers were arrested and executed. The executions were a rare punitive action used to deal with the participants of a failed coup in Syria, with the typical punishment being exile, imprisonment or reassignment to a foreign diplomatic post.[41] President Lu'ay al-Atassi subsequently resigned, signalling his disapproval of the executions.[42] After evading the authorities for a short period, Alwan and his chief co-conspirators Raef al-Maarri and Muhammad Nabhan were apprehended and brought to military trial, where they were found guilty of treason and sentenced to death.[43] They were released exactly a year later and exiled,[44] after lobbying by Nasser and Iraqi President Abdul Salam Arif.[45]
The failure of Alwan's revolt marked the end of significant Nasserist influence in Syria's military and civilian institutions, and with the pro-Nasser forces largely defeated, the Military Committee became the sole power center of the country.[41] Relations with Egypt immediately soured, with Nasser, still popular with the Syrian masses, issuing broadcasts denouncing the Ba'athists as "murderers" and "fascists",[40] and representing the forces of heresy and atheism, a derogatory reference to the party's embrace of strict secularism and the numerous leadership positions held by non-Sunni Muslims.[42] Nasser also announced his withdrawal from the 17 April unity agreement.[40][42]
See also[edit]
List of modern conflicts in the Middle East
Syrian Crisis of 1957
1961 Syrian coup d'état
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Corrective Movement (Syria)
Syrian Civil War
Notes and references[edit]
Notes[edit]
^ These new members were Salim Hatum, Ahmad al-Suwaydani, Muhammad Rabah al-Tawil, Hamad 'Ubayd and Musa al-Zu'bi. There was a further expansion of the Military Committee in the summer of 1963, but according to Assad the highest Military Committee membership number reached was 13.[28]
^ The Nasserist cabinet members who resigned were Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Minister Nihad al-Qasim, Finance Minister Abd al-Wahhab Hawmad, Defense Minister Muhammad al-Sufi, Planning Minister Hani al-Hindi, Supply Minister Sami Sufan, Communications Minister Jihad Dahi.[34][35]
References[edit]
^ a b Hopwood 1988, p. 45.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 17–18.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 18.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 20.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 20–21.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 21.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 21–22.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 22–23.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 24.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 28.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 29–30.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 30.
^ a b Hinnebusch 2001, p. 32.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 33.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, p. 34–35.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 40–42.
^ Hinnebusch 2001, pp. 2–3.
^ a b c Hinnebusch 2001, p. 3.
^ a b c Hinnebusch 2001, p. 4.
^ Seale 1990, p. 72.
^ Seale 1990, p. 73.
^ Seale 1990, pp. 73–74.
^ a b Seale 1990, p. 74.
^ a b Seale 1990, p. 75.
^ a b Seale 1990, p. 76.
^ a b c d Seale 1990, p. 77.
^ a b c Seale 1990, p. 78.
^ a b Seale 1990, p. 500.
^ Seale 1990, p. 79.
^ Seale 1990, pp. 79–80.
^ Mufti 1996, p. 152.
^ Rabinovich, pp. 65–67.
^ Mufti 1996, p. 153.
^ Arab News Agency (1963). Mideast Mirror. p. 8.
^ Mufti 1996, pp. 146–147.
^ Alumni Association of the American University of Beirut (1963), Middle East Forum, 39–40, p. 7.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ a b Rabinovich 1972, pp. 68–69.
^ Commins 2004, p. 122.
^ Political Studies and Public Administration Department of the American University of Beirut 1963, pp. 148.
^ a b c d Seale 1990, p. 83.
^ a b c Mufti 1996, p. 157.
^ a b c Rabinovich 1972, p. 72.
^ Chronology of Arab Politics. 1. Political Studies and Public Administration Department of the American University of Beirut. 1963. Page 263. Page. 393.
^ Chronology of Arab Politics. 2. Political Studies and Public Administration Department of the American University of Beirut. 1964. Page 377. Page 412.
^ Moubayed 2006, p. 38.
Bibliography[edit]
.mw-parser-output .refbegin{font-size:90%;margin-bottom:0.5em}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul{list-style-type:none;margin-left:0}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul>li,.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>dl>dd{margin-left:0;padding-left:3.2em;text-indent:-3.2em;list-style:none}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-100{font-size:100%}
Commins, David D. (2004). Historical Dictionary of Syria. Scarecrow Press. ISBN 978-0-8108-4934-1.
Hinnebusch, Raymond (2001). Syria: Revolution from Above (1st ed.). Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-26779-3.
Hopwood, Derek (1988). Syria 1945–1986: Politics and Society. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-04-445046-7.
Moubayed, Sami M. (2006). Steel &amp; Silk: Men and Women who shaped Syria 1900–2000. Cune Press. ISBN 978-1-885942-41-8.
Mufti, Malik (1996). Sovereign Creations: Pan-Arabism and Political Order in Syria and Iraq. Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-8014-3168-9. Alwan Syria 1962.
Rabinovich, Itamar (1972). Syria Under the Baʻth, 1963–66: The Army Party Symbiosis. Transaction Publishers.
Seale, Patrick (1990). Asad of Syria: The Struggle for the Middle East. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-06976-3.
Political Studies and Public Administration Department of the American University of Beirut (1963). Chronology of Arab Politics. 1. American University of Beirut. Political Studies and Public Administration Department.
vteCold War
USA
USSR
NATO
ANZUS
SEATO
METO
Warsaw Pact
Non-Aligned Movement
Second Cold War
1940s
Morgenthau Plan
Hukbalahap Rebellion
Jamaican political conflict
Dekemvriana
Percentages agreement
Yalta Conference
Guerrilla war in the Baltic states
Forest Brothers
Operation Priboi
Operation Jungle
Occupation of the Baltic states
Cursed soldiers
Operation Unthinkable
Operation Downfall
Potsdam Conference
Gouzenko Affair
Division of Korea
Operation Masterdom
Operation Beleaguer
Operation Blacklist Forty
Iran crisis of 1946
Greek Civil War
Baruch Plan
Corfu Channel incident
Turkish Straits crisis
Restatement of Policy on Germany
First Indochina War
Truman Doctrine
Asian Relations Conference
May 1947 crises
Marshall Plan
Comecon
1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état
Al-Wathbah uprising
1947–1949 Palestine war
1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1948 Palestinian exodus
Tito–Stalin split
Berlin Blockade
Western betrayal
Iron Curtain
Eastern Bloc
Western Bloc
Chinese Civil War
Malayan Emergency
March 1949 Syrian coup d'état
Albanian Subversion
1950s
Bamboo Curtain
Korean War
McCarthyism
Mau Mau Uprising
Algerian War
Egyptian revolution of 1952
1953 Iranian coup d'état
East German uprising of 1953
Pact of Madrid
Bricker Amendment
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état
1954 Geneva Conference
Jebel Akhdar War
Vietnam War
First Taiwan Strait Crisis
Cyprus Emergency
Geneva Summit (1955)
Bandung Conference
Poznań protests of 1956
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
Suez Crisis
"We will bury you"
Ifni War
Operation Gladio
Arab Cold War
Syrian Crisis of 1957
1958 Lebanon crisis
Iraqi 14 July Revolution
Sputnik crisis
Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
1959 Tibetan uprising
1959 Mosul uprising
Cuban Revolution
Aftermath of the Cuban Revolution
Kitchen Debate
Sino-Soviet split
1960s
Congo Crisis
Simba rebellion
1960 U-2 incident
Bay of Pigs Invasion
1960 Turkish coup d'état
Soviet–Albanian split
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
First Iraqi–Kurdish War
Berlin Crisis of 1961
Berlin Wall
Papua conflict
Sand War
Portuguese Colonial War
Angolan War of Independence
Guinea-Bissau War of Independence
Mozambican War of Independence
Cuban Missile Crisis
El Porteñazo
Sino-Indian War
Communist insurgency in Sarawak
Ramadan Revolution
Eritrean War of Independence
North Yemen Civil War
1963 Syrian coup d'état
Assassination of John F. Kennedy
Aden Emergency
Cyprus crisis of 1963–64
Vietnam War
Shifta War
Mexican Dirty War
Tlatelolco massacre
Guatemalan Civil War
Colombian conflict
1964 Brazilian coup d'état
Dominican Civil War
Rhodesian Bush War
South African Border War
Transition to the New Order (Indonesia)
Domino theory
ASEAN Declaration
Laotian Civil War
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Argentine Revolution
Korean DMZ Conflict
Greek military junta of 1967–1974
Years of Lead (Italy)
USS Pueblo incident
Six-Day War
War of Attrition
Dhofar Rebellion
Al-Wadiah War
Nigerian Civil War
Protests of 1968
May 68
Cultural Revolution
Prague Spring
1968 Polish political crisis
Communist insurgency in Malaysia
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
17 July Revolution
1969 Libyan coup d'état
Football War
Goulash Communism
Sino-Soviet border conflict
CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion
Corrective Move
1970s
Détente
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
Black September
Alcora Exercise
Corrective Movement (Syria)
Western Sahara conflict
Cambodian Civil War
Vietnam War
Koza riot
Realpolitik
Ping-pong diplomacy
Corrective Revolution (Egypt)
1971 Turkish military memorandum
1971 Sudanese coup d'état
Four Power Agreement on Berlin
Bangladesh Liberation War
1972 Nixon visit to China
North Yemen-South Yemen Border conflict of 1972
Yemenite War of 1972
Communist insurgency in Bangladesh
Eritrean Civil Wars
1973 Uruguayan coup d'état
1973 Afghan coup d'état
1973 Chilean coup d'état
Yom Kippur War
1973 oil crisis
Carnation Revolution
Spanish transition to democracy
Metapolitefsi
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
Second Iraqi–Kurdish War
Turkish invasion of Cyprus
Angolan Civil War
Mozambican Civil War
Oromo conflict
Ogaden War
1978 Somali coup d'état attempt
Western Sahara War
Ethiopian Civil War
Lebanese Civil War
Sino-Albanian split
Cambodian–Vietnamese War
Operation Condor
Dirty War (Argentina)
1976 Argentine coup d'état
Libyan–Egyptian War
German Autumn
Korean Air Lines Flight 902
Nicaraguan Revolution
Uganda–Tanzania War
NDF Rebellion
Chadian–Libyan conflict
Yemenite War of 1979
Grand Mosque seizure
Iranian Revolution
Saur Revolution
Sino-Vietnamese War
New Jewel Movement
1979 Herat uprising
Seven Days to the River Rhine
Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union
1980s
Salvadoran Civil War
Soviet–Afghan War
1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts
Peruvian conflict
Eritrean Civil Wars
1980 Turkish coup d'état
Ugandan Bush War
Gulf of Sidra incident
Casamance conflict
Falklands War
1982 Ethiopian–Somali Border War
Ndogboyosoi War
United States invasion of Grenada
Able Archer 83
Star Wars
Iran–Iraq War
Somali Rebellion
1986 Black Sea incident
South Yemen Civil War
Toyota War
Lord's Resistance Army insurgency
1988 Black Sea bumping incident
Bougainville Civil War
8888 Uprising
Solidarity
Soviet reaction
Contras
Central American crisis
RYAN
Korean Air Lines Flight 007
People Power Revolution
Glasnost
Perestroika
Nagorno-Karabakh War
Afghan Civil War
United States invasion of Panama
1988 Polish strikes
1989 Tiananmen Square protests
Revolutions of 1989
Fall of the Berlin Wall
Fall of the inner German border
Velvet Revolution
Romanian Revolution
Peaceful Revolution
1990s
Mongolian Revolution of 1990
Gulf War
German reunification
Yemeni unification
Fall of communism in Albania
Breakup of Yugoslavia
Dissolution of Czechoslovakia
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
1991 August Coup
Frozen conflicts
Abkhazia
China-Taiwan
Korea
Puerto Rico
Kosovo
Nagorno-Karabakh
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Sino-Indian border dispute
North Borneo dispute
Foreign policy
Truman Doctrine
Containment
Eisenhower Doctrine
Domino theory
Hallstein Doctrine
Kennedy Doctrine
Peaceful coexistence
Ostpolitik
Johnson Doctrine
Brezhnev Doctrine
Nixon Doctrine
Ulbricht Doctrine
Carter Doctrine
Reagan Doctrine
Rollback
Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War
IdeologiesCapitalism
Liberalism
Chicago school
Keynesianism
Libertarianism
Monetarism
Neoclassical economics
Reaganomics
Supply-side economics
Thatcherism
Socialism
Communism
Marxism–Leninism
Castroism
Eurocommunism
Guevarism
Hoxhaism
Juche
Maoism
Trotskyism
Naxalism
Stalinism
Titoism
Other
Imperialism
Anti-imperialism
Nationalism
Ultranationalism
Chauvinism
Ethnic nationalism
Racism
Zionism
Fascism
Neo-Nazism
Islamism
Totalitarianism
Authoritarianism
Autocracy
Liberal democracy
Illiberal democracy
Guided democracy
Social democracy
Third-Worldism
White supremacy
White nationalism
White separatism
Apartheid
Organizations
NATO
SEATO
METO
EEC
Warsaw Pact
Comecon
Non-Aligned Movement
ASEAN
SAARC
CIA
MI6
KGB
Stasi
Safari Club
Propaganda
Active measures
 Amerika
Crusade for Freedom
Izvestia
Pravda
Voice of America
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty
Radio Free Asia
Red Scare
Soviet Life
TASS
Races
Arms race
Nuclear arms race
Space Race
Historians
Gar Alperovitz
Thomas A. Bailey
Michael Beschloss
Archie Brown
Warren H. Carroll
Adrian Cioroianu
John Costello
Michael Cox
Nicholas J. Cull
Willem Drees
Robert D. English
Herbert Feis
Robert Hugh Ferrell
André Fontaine
Anneli Ute Gabanyi
John Lewis Gaddis
Lloyd Gardner
Timothy Garton Ash
Gabriel Gorodetsky
Fred Halliday
Jussi Hanhimäki
John Earl Haynes
Patrick J. Hearden
Tvrtko Jakovina
Tony Judt
Harvey Klehr
Gabriel Kolko
Walter LaFeber
Walter Laqueur
Melvyn Leffler
Geir Lundestad
Mary Elise Sarotte
Vojtech Mastny
Jack F. Matlock Jr.
Thomas J. McCormick
Timothy Naftali
Marius Oprea
David S. Painter
William B. Pickett
Ronald E. Powaski
Yakov M. Rabkin
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
Ellen Schrecker
Giles Scott-Smith
Shen Zhihua
Athan Theoharis
Andrew Thorpe
Vladimir Tismăneanu
Patrick Vaughan
Alex von Tunzelmann
Odd Arne Westad
William Appleman Williams
Jonathan Reed Winkler
Rudolph Winnacker
Ken Young
See also
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
List of Eastern Bloc agents in the United States
Soviet espionage in the United States
Soviet Union–United States relations
USSR–USA summits
Russian espionage in the United States
American espionage in the Soviet Union and Russian Federation
Russia–NATO relations
Brinkmanship
CIA and the Cultural Cold War
Second Cold War
Russian Revolution
Category
Commons
Timeline
List of conflicts
vteList of modern conflicts in the Middle East1910s
World War I
Middle Eastern theatre
Arab Revolt
Armenian Genocide
Assyrian genocide
Mount Lebanon starvation
Unification of Saudi Arabia
Simko Shikak revolt
Egyptian revolution of 1919
Turkish War of Independence
Greco-Turkish War
Turkish–Armenian War
Franco-Turkish War
Revolts
Mahmud Barzanji revolts
1920s
Franco-Syrian War
Iraqi revolt against the British
Sectarian conflict in Mandatory Palestine
Adwan Rebellion
Arab separatism in Khuzestan
Great Syrian Revolt
Sheikh Said rebellion
1930s
Ararat rebellion
Ahmed Barzani revolt
Simele massacre
Saudi–Yemeni War (1934)
Goharshad Mosque rebellion
1935–1936 Iraqi Shia revolts
1935 Yazidi revolt
Dersim rebellion
1940s
World War II
Italian bombing of Palestine
Anglo-Iraqi War
Syria–Lebanon Campaign
Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran
1943 Barzani revolt
Alwaziri coup
Al-Wathbah uprising
Kurdish separatism in Iran
Iran crisis of 1946
Arab–Israeli conflict
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1950s
1952 Egyptian coup d'état
1953 Iranian coup d'état
Jebel Akhdar War
Cyprus Emergency
Suez Crisis
Yemeni–Adenese clan violence
1958 Lebanon crisis
1958 Iraqi revolution
1959 Mosul uprising
1960s
Cyprus crisis of 1963–1964
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
First Iraqi–Kurdish War
Dhofar Rebellion
North Yemen Civil War
Feb. 1963 Iraqi coup
Mar. 1963 Syrian coup
Nov. 1963 Iraqi coup
Aden Emergency
1964 Hama riot
Israeli–Palestinian conflict
1966 Syrian coup d'état
1970s
Black September in Jordan
Yemenite War of 1972
Turkish invasion of Cyprus
Shatt al-Arab clashes
Lebanese Civil War
Political violence in Turkey
Islamist uprising in Syria
NDF Rebellion
Yemenite War of 1979
Iranian Revolution
Consolidation of the Iranian Revolution
1979 Qatif Uprising
Grand Mosque seizure
1979–1980 Shia uprising in Iraq
1980s
Iran–Iraq War
1980 Turkish coup d'état
Kurdish separatism in Turkey
Turkey–PKK conflict
South Yemen Civil War
1986 Egyptian conscripts riot
1986 Damascus bombings
Mecca massacre
Abu Nidal's executions
1990s
Gulf War (1990–1991)
1991 uprisings in Iraq
Terror campaign in Egypt (1990s)
Yemeni Civil War (1994)
Islamic insurgency in Saudi Arabia (2000–present)
Operation Desert Fox
al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
1999 Shia uprising in Iraq
2000s
Iraq War
Balochi insurgency in Iran
2004 Qamishli riots
Houthi insurgency in Yemen
Iran–Israel proxy conflict
2006 Lebanon War
Fatah–Hamas conflict
South Yemen insurgency
2010s
Bahraini uprising of 2011
Egyptian Crisis
Sinai insurgency
Insurgency in Egypt (2013–present)
Syrian Civil War
Turkish involvement in Syria
Syrian War spillover in Lebanon
Iraqi insurgency (2011–2013)
Iraqi Civil War (2014–2017)
Iraqi insurgency (2017–present)
Yemeni Crisis
Yemeni Civil War (2015–present)
2019–20 Persian Gulf crisis
This list includes WWI and later conflicts (after 1914) of at least 100 fatalities eachProlonged conflicts are listed in the decade when initiated; ongoing conflicts are marked italic and conflict with +100,000 killed with bold.
vteArab Socialist Ba'ath Party
Iraqi-dominated faction
Syrian-dominated faction
HistoryPredecessors
Arab Ba'ath
Arab Ba'ath Movement
Arab Socialist Movement
Syrian Committee to Help Iraq
Founders
Michel Aflaq
Salah al-Din al-Bitar
Pre-split
1954 Syrian coup d'état
14 July Revolution
1959 Mosul uprising
Ramadan Revolution
1963 Syrian coup d'état
National Council for the Revolutionary Command
Ar-Rashid revolt
November 1963 Iraqi coup d'état
1964 Hama riot
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Post-split
17 July Revolution
Ba'athist Iraq
Revolutionary Command Council
Members
Arabic Belt
Corrective Movement
Union of Arab Republics
Ba'athist Arabization campaigns in North Iraq
1979 Ba'ath Party Purge
Iraqi conflict (2003–present)
De-Ba'athification
Syrian Civil War
LeadershipGeneral SecretariesPre-split
Michel Aflaq
Munif Razzaz
Iraqi-dominated faction
Michel Aflaq
Saddam Hussein
Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri*
Syrian-dominated faction
Nureddin al-Atassi
Hafez al-Assad
Abdullah al-Ahmar (de facto)*
Regional SecretariesIraq
Fuad al-Rikabi
Talib El-Shibib
Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr
Saddam Hussein
Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri*
Jordan
Abdullah Rimawi
Munif Razzaz
Akram al-Homsi*
Lebanon
Assem Qanso
Palestine
Rakad Salem*
Syria
Hammud al-Shufi
Shibli al-Aysami
Amin al-Hafiz
Nureddin al-Atassi
Hafez al-Assad
Bashar al-Assad*
Members of the National Command
Zaki al-Arsuzi
Mansur al-Atrash
Shibli al-Aysami
Salah al-Din al-Bitar
Elias Farah
Wahib al-Ghanim
Amin al-Hafiz
Akram al-Hawrani
Salah Jadid
Zuheir Mohsen
Talib El-Shibib
Khaled Yashruti
Members of the Regional CommandsIraq
Mohammed Younis al-Ahmed
Salah Omar al-Ali
Huda Salih Mahdi Ammash
Salih Mahdi Ammash
Tariq Aziz
Qusay Hussein
Adnan Khairallah
Ali Hassan al-Majid
Aziz Saleh Nuhmah
Taha Yassin Ramadan
Fawzi Mutlaq al-Rawi
Abd al-Khaliq al-Samarra'i
Abdullah Sallum al-Samarra'i
Hardan al-Tikriti
Syria
Abdullah al-Ahmar
Rifaat al-Assad
Mohammed Saeed Bekheitan
Marwan Habash
Salim Hatum
Hilal Hilal
Mohammad al-Hussein
Hisham Ikhtiyar
Salah Jadid
Abd al-Karim al-Jundi
Sami al-Jundi
Mohammad Jihad al-Laham
Zuhair Masharqa
Abd al-Qadir Qaddura
Farouk al-Sharaa
Hikmat al-Shihabi
Mustafa Tlass
Hasan Turkmani
Muhammad Umran
Salim Yasin
YemenAli Ahmad Nasser al-DhahabHeads of stateIraq
Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr
Saddam Hussein
Syria
Amin al-Hafiz
Nureddin al-Atassi
Ahmad al-Khatib
Hafez al-Assad
Abdul Halim Khaddam (interim)
Bashar al-Assad*
Heads of governmentIraq
Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr
Saddam Hussein
Sa'dun Hammadi
Mohammed Hamza Zubeidi
Ahmad Husayn Khudayir as-Samarrai
Syria
Salah al-Din al-Bitar
Amin al-Hafiz
Yusuf Zuayyin
Nureddin al-Atassi
Hafez al-Assad
Abdul Rahman Khleifawi
Mahmoud al-Ayyubi
Muhammad Ali al-Halabi
Abdul Rauf al-Kasm
Mahmoud Zuabi
Muhammad Mustafa Mero
Muhammad Naji al-Otari
Adel Safar
Riyad Farid Hijab
Omar Ibrahim Ghalawanji
Wael Nader al-Halqi
Imad Khamis
Hussein Arnous*
* = incumbentOrganizationRegional branchesIraqi-dominated faction
Algeria
Bahrain
Egypt
Iraq
Regional Command
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
Mauritania
Palestine
Sudan
Tunisia
Yemen
Syrian-dominated faction
Jordan
Lebanon
Palestine
South Yemen
Sudan
Syria
History
National Security Bureau
Regional Command
Yemen
Newspapers
Al-Ba'ath
Sawt al-Jamahir
Al-Thawra
WingsArmed
Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order
Ba'ath Brigades
Fedayeen Saddam
General Military Council for Iraqi Revolutionaries
Popular Army
Youth
Revolutionary Youth Union
Associated organizationsArmed groups
Al-Abud Network
Free Iraqi Army
Jeish Muhammad
Rejectionists
Supreme Command for Jihad and Liberation
Breakaway groups
Al-Awda
Arab Revolutionary Workers Party
Arab Socialist Movement
Damascus branch
Arab Socialist Revolutionary Ba'ath Party
Arabic Toilers' Movement
Democratic Socialist Arab Ba'ath Party
Palestinian Arab Front
Snake Party
Socialist Lebanon
Sudanese Ba'ath Party
Political alliancesCurrent
Alliance of Palestinian Forces
March 8 Alliance
National Consensus Forces
National Democratic Alliance
National Progressive Front (Syria)
Palestine Liberation Organization
Palestinian National and Islamic Forces
Former
Ahd Bloc
Front of Patriotic and National Parties
Lebanese National Movement
Lebanese National Resistance Front
National Alliance for the Liberation of Syria
National Progressive Front (Iraq)
National Union Front
Palestinian National Alliance
Palestinian National Salvation Front
Rejectionist Front
Political parties
Arab Socialist Union Party
Arabic Democratic Union Party
Democratic Socialist Unionist Party
Libyan National Movement
National Covenant Party
Sawab
Social Democratic Unionists
Socialist Democratic Unionist Party
Socialist Unionist Party
Syrian Communist Party
Bakdash
Unified
Syrian Social Nationalist Party
in Lebanon
Other organizations
General Federation of Trade Unions
General Union of Peasants
Related topicsIdeology
Arab nationalism
Arab socialism
Ba'athism
Pan-Arabism
Literature
The Battle for One Destiny
On the Way of Resurrection
Three Whom God Should Not Have Created: Persians, Jews, and Flies
Symbolism
Arḍ ul-Furātayn
Flag
Pan-Arab colors
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=1963_Syrian_coup_d%27état&amp;oldid=965811479"
		Categories: 1963 in SyriaArab nationalist rebellionsMilitary coups in SyriaConflicts in 1963Ba'athism1960s coups d'état and coup attemptsHistory of the Ba'ath PartyArab nationalism in SyriaRevolutions in SyriaMarch 1963 eventsArab rebellions in SyriaHidden categories: CS1: long volume valueUse dmy dates from December 2014Good articlesArticles containing Arabic-language text
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		العربيةবাংলাDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaLatviešu日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийSuomiTürkçeУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 3 July 2020, at 15:14 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
