	Little black dress
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For other uses, see Little Black Dress (disambiguation).
  A little black dress from 1964
The little black dress (LBD) is a black evening or cocktail dress, cut simply and often quite short. Fashion historians ascribe the origins of the little black dress to the 1920s designs of Coco Chanel and Jean Patou[1] intended to be long-lasting, versatile, affordable, accessible to the widest market possible and in a neutral colour. Its ubiquity is such that it is often simply referred to as the "LBD".[2][3][4]
The little black dress is considered essential to a complete wardrobe by many women and fashion observers, who believe it a "rule of fashion" that every woman should own a simple, elegant black dress that can be dressed up or down depending on the occasion. For example, it can be worn with a jacket and pumps for daytime business wear, or with ornate jewelry and accessories for evening wear or a formal event such as a wedding or ball.
Contents
1 History
2 Famous examples
3 See also
4 References
5 Further reading
History[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (March 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
  Black evening dress by Jean Patou
Black has always been a color rich in symbolism. In the early 16th century, black represented wealth among Spanish Aristocrats and Dutch merchants as it was incredibly expensive to produce the black color from "imported oak apples."[5] In the early 18th century, black represented romance and artistry. As Ann Demeulemeester said of it, "Black is poetic. How do you imagine a poet? In a bright yellow jacket? Probably not." In the early 19th century, black was adopted by the Romantics such as Byron, Shelley, and Keats, due to its melancholic aura. As the Victorian era began, black transitions from a color of art to one of grief and mourning – widows were expected to wear black for at least four years – and also for service livery, as the uniform for maids.
In 1926 Gabrielle "Coco" Chanel published a picture of a short, simple black dress in American Vogue. It was calf-length, straight and decorated only by a few diagonal lines. Vogue called it "Chanel's Ford". Like the Model T, the little black dress was simple and accessible for women of all social classes. Vogue also said that the LBD would become "a sort of uniform for all women of taste".[6] This, as well as other designs by the house of Chanel helped disassociate black from mourning, and reinvent it as the uniform of the high-class, wealthy, and chic. As Coco herself proclaimed, "I imposed black; it's still going strong today, for black wipes out everything else around."[7]
The little black dress continued to be popular through the Great Depression, predominantly through its economy and elegance, albeit with the line lengthened somewhat. Hollywood's influence on fashion helped the little black dress's popularity, but for more practical reasons: as Technicolor films became more common, filmmakers relied on little black dresses because other colors looked distorted on screen and botched the coloring process. During World War II, the style continued in part due to widespread rationing of textiles, and in part as a common uniform (accessorized for businesswear) for civilian women entering the workforce.  Variations on Chanel's little black dress during the Chanel: The Legend exhibition at the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague in 2014
The rise of Dior's "New Look" in the post-war era and the sexual conservatism of the 1950s returned the little black dress to its roots as a uniform and a symbol of the dangerous woman. Hollywood femme fatales and fallen women characters were portrayed often in black halter-style dresses in contrast to the more conservative dresses of housewives or more wholesome Hollywood stars. Synthetic fibres made popular in the 1940s and 1950s broadened the availability and affordability of many designs.
The generation gap of the 1960s created a dichotomy in the design of the little black dress. The younger "mod" generation preferred, in general, a miniskirt on their versions of the dress and designers catering to the youth culture continued to push the envelope - shortening the skirt even more, creating cutouts or slits in the skirt or bodice of the dress, using sheer fabrics such as netting or tulle. Many women aspired to simple black sheath dresses similar to the black Givenchy dress worn by Audrey Hepburn in the film Breakfast at Tiffany's.
The popularity of casual fabrics, especially knits, for dress and business wear during the 1980s brought the little black dress back into vogue. Coupled with the fitness craze, the new designs incorporated details already popular at the time such as broad shoulders or peplums: later in the decade and into the 1990s, simpler designs in a variety of lengths and fullness were popular. The grunge culture of the 1990s saw the combination of the little black dress with both sandals and combat boots, though the dress itself remained simple in cut and fabric.
The new glamour of the late 1990s led to new variations of the dress but, like the 1950s and the 1970s, colour re-emerged as a factor in fashion and formalwear and repeatedly shows an aversion to black. The resurgence of body conscious clothing, muted colour schemes, and the reemergence of predominant black, along with the retrospective trends of the 1980s in the late 2000s paved way to the return of interest to the dress.
Famous examples[edit]
  Betty Boop by Max Fleischer, 1931
The black Givenchy dress of Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany’s, designed by Hubert de Givenchy, epitomized the standard for wearing little black dresses accessorized with pearls (together called "basic black"), as was frequently seen throughout the early 1960s. The dress set a record in 2006 when it was auctioned for £410,000, six times its original estimate.[8]
Betty Boop, a cartoon character based in part on the 1920s it girl Helen Kane, was drawn wearing a little black dress in her early films, though with Technicolor later, Betty's dress became red.[6]
Wallis Simpson, Duchess of Windsor, was known to own several little black dresses and said much in praise of the garments. One quote of the Duchess: "When a little black dress is right, there is nothing else to wear in its place."[6]
Edith Piaf, the French folk icon, performed in a black sheath dress throughout her career: for this habit she was nicknamed "little black sparrow". It was thought that the dress helped audiences focus more on Piaf's singing and less on her appearance.[6]
Diana, Princess of Wales wore a black Christina Stambolian dress while at Serpentine Gallery’s summer party, hosted by Vanity Fair in June 1994, the night Charles, Prince of Wales admitted he had an adulterous relationship with Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall. Diana's dress has been compared to a "little black dress"[9]
In an incident at London's Covent Garden theatre in 2004, a director fired the then-obese soprano Deborah Voigt from an opera because she could not fit into a "little black cocktail dress", replacing her with the slimmer Anne Schwanewilms.[10][11][12][13]
See also[edit]
 Fashion portal
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Little black dresses.
References[edit]
^ Steele, Valerie (1988). Paris Fashion: A Cultural History. Oxford University Press. pp. 246–248. ISBN 0-19-504465-7..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ styledotcom (2010-08-19). "The LBD Gets Official". Style.com. Retrieved 2013-07-13.
^ "Katy Perry looks stunning in slinky LBD". Mirror.co.uk. 2010-04-15. Retrieved 2013-07-13.
^ "Women’s History Month kicks off in ‘Little Black Dress’ style", Northern Illinois University Archived 2010-10-11 at the Wayback Machine
^ Puhak, Shelley (2017-10-13). "The Underclass Origins of the Little Black Dress". The Atlantic. Retrieved 2020-02-22.
^ a b c d Edelman, Amy Holman (1998). The Little Black Dress. Aurum.
^ Picardie, Justine (2010). Coco Chanel: the legend and the life. London: Harper Collins Publishers. pp. 92–93. ISBN 9780061963858.
^ "Audrey Hepburn's Little Black Dress Sells for a Fortune". Hellomagazine.com. 2006-12-06. Retrieved 2013-07-13.
^ "The Day Princess Diana And Her 'Revenge Dress' Shocked The World".
^ Anthony Tommasini, "With Surgery, Soprano Sheds a Brünnhilde Body," New York Times, March 27, 2005, found at New York Times website. Before and after images included. Accessed May 27, 2009.
^ Anthony Tommasini, "Second Date With a Little Black Dress," New York Times, June 11, 2008, found at New York Times website. Accessed May 27, 2009.
^ Vivien Schweitzer, "Music Review: A Slimmed-Down Diva Keeps Her Vocal Heft," New York Times, June 18, 2009, found at New York Times website. Accessed May 27, 2009.
^ "Deborah Voigt: Off The Scales: Opera Star Talks About Lifelong Battle With Weight," found at "Deborah Voigt: Off The Scales, Opera Star Talks About Lifelong Battle With Weight", CBS News. Retrieved May 29, 2009.
Further reading[edit]
Edelman, Amy Holman (1998). The Little Black Dress. Aurum. ISBN 1-85410-604-X.
"Little Black Dress Transcends Fashion". About.com. May 2006
“Sixties Fashions”. June 2, 2006.
"The Little Black Dress". Woman’s Hour Radio.  BBC. May 2006.
"The Myth Of The Little Black Dress". Jane Curtain . The Fashion Culte Magazine. November 2014.
vteChanelOwners
Alain Wertheimer
Gérard Wertheimer
Jacques Wertheimer
Pierre Wertheimer
Designers
Coco Chanel
Karl Lagerfeld
Virginie Viard
Perfumers
Ernest Beaux
Jacques Polge
Olivier Polge
Henri Robert
Perfumes
Bleu de Chanel
Bois des Îles
Chanel No. 5
Chanel No. 19
Chanel No. 22
Chanel Chance
Coco
Coco Mademoiselle
Cuir de Russie
Égoïste
Garments
Little black dress
Jacqueline Kennedy's pink Chanel suit
Other products
Chanel 2.55 handbag
Chanel J12 watch
Films
Chanel Solitaire
Coco Before Chanel
Coco Chanel
Coco Chanel &amp; Igor Stravinsky
Musical
Coco
Book
The Allure of Chanel
vteClothingHeadwear
Beret
Cap
Baseball
Flat
Knit
Hat
Boater
Bowler
Fedora
Homburg
Top
Helmet
Hood
Kerchief
Turban
Veil
Neckwear
Bands
Choker
Clerical collar
Cravat
Neckerchief
Necktie
Ascot
Bolo
Bow
Club
School
Stock
Scarf
Tops
Blouse
Cache-cœur
Crop top
Halterneck
Tube top
Shirt
Dress
Henley
Polo
Sleeveless
T
Sweater
Cardigan
Guernsey
Hoodie
Jersey
Polo neck
Shrug
Sweater vest
Twinset
Waistcoat
Trousers
Bell-bottoms
Bondage
Capri
Cargo
Chaps
Formal
High water
Lowrise
Jeans
Jodhpurs
Overalls
Palazzo
Parachute
Pedal pushers
Phat
Shorts
Bermuda
Cycling
Dolphin
Gym
Hotpants
Running
Slim-fit
Sweatpants
Windpants
Yoga pants
Suits anduniforms
Ceremonial dress
Academic
Court
Diplomatic
Folk
Jumpsuit
Military
Full
Mess
Service
Sailor
Combat
Pantsuit
Religious
Cassock
Clerical
Vestment
School
Gymslip
Prison
Workwear
Boilersuit
Cleanroom
Hazmat
Space
Scrubs
Dressesand gownsFormal, semi-formal, informal
Backless
Bouffant gown
Coatdress
Cocktail
Little black
Coronation
Evening
Ball gown
Debutante
Princess line
Strapless
Wedding
Wrap
Casual
Frock
House
Jumper
Romper suit
Sheath
Shirtdress
Slip
Sundress
Skirts
A-line
Ballerina
Denim
Men's
Miniskirt
Pencil
Prairie
Rah-rah
Sarong
Skort
Tutu
Wrap
Underwear and lingerieTop
Bra
Camisole
Undershirt
Bottom
Diaper
Leggings
Panties
Plastic pants
Slip
Thong
Underpants
Boxer briefs
Boxer shorts
Midway briefs
Briefs
Full
Adult bodysuit (Playsuit)
Infant bodysuit
Long underwear
See-through
Teddy
CoatsandouterwearOvercoats
Car
Chesterfield
Covert
Duffel
Duster
Greatcoat
British Warm
Guards Coat
Greca
Over-frock
Riding
Shadbelly
Trench
Ulster
Cloak
Opera
Paletot
Pea
Polo
Raincoat
Mackintosh
Suit coats
Frock coat
Bekishe
Rekel
Mess jacket
Suit jacket
Blazer
Smoking
Sports
Teba
Tailcoat
Dress
Morning
Other
Apron
Pinafore
Blouson
Cagoule
Cape
Ferraiolo
Inverness
Mantle, Monastic
Mantle, Royal
Mozzetta
Pellegrina
Coatee
Cut-off
Gilet
Jacket
Flight
Goggle
Harrington
Leather
Norfolk
Safari
Jerkin
Lab coat
Parka
Poncho
Robe
Bathrobe
Dressing gown
Shawl
Ski suit
Sleeved blanket
Windbreaker
Nightwear
Babydoll
Babygrow
Blanket sleeper
Negligee
Nightgown
Nightshirt
Pajamas
Swimwear
Bikini
Burkini
Boardshorts
Dry suit
Monokini
One-piece
Rash guard
Sling
Square leg suit
Swim briefs
Swim diaper
Trunks
Wetsuit
Footwear
Boot
Court shoe
Dress boot
Dress shoe
Flip-flops
Hosiery
Sandal
Shoe
Spats
Slipper
Sneakers
Sock
Stocking
Tights
Accessories
Belt
Boutonnière
Coin purse
Cufflink
Cummerbund
Gaiters
Glasses
Opera gloves
Headband
Handbag
Jewellery
Livery
Muff
Pocket protector
Pocket watch
Sash
Sunglasses
Suspenders
Umbrella
Wallet
Watch
Dress codesWestern
Formal
Morning dress
White tie
Semi-formal
Black lounge suit
Black tie
Informal
Casual
Related
Clothing fetish
Cross-dressing
Fashion
Haute couture
Made-to-measure
Ready-to-wear
Laws
Terminology
 Clothing portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Little_black_dress&amp;oldid=970900976"
		Categories: 1920s fashion20th-century fashion21st-century fashionDressesHistory of clothing (Western fashion)History of fashionChanelHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles needing additional references from March 2017All articles needing additional referencesCommons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		AfrikaansالعربيةБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiItalianoעבריתKaszëbscziNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiРусскийСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 3 August 2020, at 01:50 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
