	Diving bell
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Bell cursor)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Chamber for transporting divers vertically through the water
For the 2014 film, see Diving Bell (film).
Not to be confused with Bathysphere.
Diving bellExterior view of an open (wet) diving bellOther namesClosed bellPersonnel transfer capsuleWet bellOpen bellUsesTransport of surface supplied and saturation divers from the surface to the underwater workplace and back.
A diving bell is a rigid chamber used to transport divers from the surface to depth and back in open water, usually for the purpose of performing underwater work. The most common types are the open-bottomed wet bell and the closed bell, which can maintain an internal pressure greater than the external ambient.[1] Diving bells are usually suspended by a cable, and lifted and lowered by a winch from a surface support platform. Unlike a submersible, the diving bell is not designed to move under the control of its occupants, nor to operate independently of its launch and recovery system.
The wet bell is a structure with an airtight chamber which is open to the water at the bottom, that is lowered underwater to operate as a base or a means of transport for a small number of divers. Air is trapped inside the bell by pressure of the water at the interface. These were the first type of diving chamber, and are still in use in modified form.
The closed bell is a pressure vessel for human occupation, which may be used for bounce diving or saturation diving, with access to the water through a hatch at the bottom. The hatch is sealed before ascent to retain internal pressure.  At the surface, this type of bell can lock on to a hyperbaric chamber where the divers live under saturation or are decompressed. The bell is mated with the chamber system via the bottom hatchway or a side hatchway, and the trunking in between is pressurized to enable the divers to transfer through to the chamber under pressure. In saturation diving the bell is merely the ride to and from the job, and the chamber system is the living quarters. If the dive is relatively short (a bounce dive), decompression can be done in the bell in exactly the same way it would be done in the chamber.
Contents
1 History
2 Mechanics
2.1 Wet bell
2.1.1 Type 1 wet bell
2.1.2 Type 2 wet bell
2.2 Operation of a wet bell
2.3 Closed bell
2.3.1 British mini-bell system
2.4 Deployment of a modern diving bell
3 Use with hyperbaric chambers
4 Air-lock diving bells
5 Rescue bell
6 Diver training
7 Underwater habitats
8 In nature
9 See also
10 References
11 External links
History[edit]
  A diving bell renovated as a tourist attraction on Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin
The diving bell is one of the earliest types of equipment for underwater work and exploration.[2] Its use was first described by Aristotle in the 4th century BC: "they enable the divers to respire equally well by letting down a cauldron, for this does not fill with water, but retains the air, for it is forced straight down into the water."[3] According to Roger Bacon, Alexander the Great explored the Mediterranean on the authority of Ethicus the astronomer. In 1535, Guglielmo de Lorena created and used what is considered to be the first modern diving bell.
In 1616, Franz Kessler built an improved diving bell.[4][clarification needed]
In 1642, John Winthrop reports one Edward Bendall building two large wooden barrels, weighted with lead and open at their bottoms, to salvage a ship Mary Rose which had exploded and sunk, blocking the harbor of Charlestown, Boston. Bendall undertook the work on condition that he be awarded all the value of the salvage should he succeed in unblocking the harbor, or half the value he could salvage if he could not.[5]
In 1658, Albrecht von Treileben was permitted to salvage the warship Vasa, which sank in Stockholm harbor on its maiden voyage in 1628. Between 1663 and 1665 von Treileben's divers were successful in raising most of the cannons, working from a diving bell.[6]
A diving bell is mentioned in the 1663 Ballad of Gresham College (stanza 16):
.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}
A wondrous Engine is contriveing
In forme, t'is said, much like a Bell,
Most usefull for the Art of Diveing.
If 't hitt, 't will prove a Miracle;
For, gentlemen, 't is no small matter
To make a man breath under water.
In late 1686, Sir William Phipps convinced investors to fund an expedition to what is now Haiti and the Dominican Republic to find sunken treasure, despite the location of the shipwreck being based entirely on rumor and speculation. In January 1687, Phipps found the wreck of the Spanish galleon Nuestra Señora de la Concepción off the coast of Santo Domingo.  Some sources say they used an inverted container for the salvage operation while others say the crew was assisted by Indian divers in the shallow waters.  The operation lasted from February to April 1687 during which time they salvaged jewels, some gold and 30 tons of silver which, at the time, was worth over £200,000.[7]
In 1689, Denis Papin suggested that the pressure and fresh air inside a diving bell could be maintained by a force pump or bellows. Engineer John Smeaton utilized this concept in 1789.[4][8]
In 1691, Dr. Edmond Halley completed plans for a diving bell capable of remaining submerged for extended periods of time, and fitted with a window for the purpose of undersea exploration. In Halley's design, atmosphere is replenished by sending weighted barrels of air down from the surface.[9]
In 1775, Charles Spalding, an Edinburgh confectioner, improved on Halley's design by adding a system of balance-weights to ease the raising and lowering of the bell, along with a series of ropes for signaling the surface crew.[10] Spalding and his nephew, Ebenezer Watson, later suffocated off the coast of Dublin in 1783 doing salvage work in a diving bell of Spalding's design.[10]
16th century Islamic painting of Alexander the Great lowered in a glass diving bell.
Sir William Phipps used a diving bell to salvage tremendous wealth from a sunken Spanish treasure ship.
Diving bell
Spalding's Diving Bell, The Saturday Magazine, Vol. 14, 1839
Mechanics[edit]
  Occupied diving bell illustrated. From Otto Lueger, Lexikon der gesamten Technik (Dictionary of Technology), 1904
The bell is lowered into the water by cables from a crane, gantry or A-frame attached to a floating platform or shore structure. The bell is ballasted so as to remain upright in the water and to be negatively buoyant, so that it will sink even when full of air.
Hoses, supplied by gas compressors or banks of high pressure storage cylinders at the surface, provide breathing gas to the bell, serving two functions:
Fresh gas is available for breathing by the occupants.
Volume reduction of the air in an open bell due to increasing hydrostatic pressure as the bell is lowered is compensated. Adding pressurized gas ensures that the gas space within the bell remains at constant volume as the bell descends in the water. Otherwise the bell would partially fill with water as the gas was compressed.
The physics of the diving bell applies also to an underwater habitat equipped with a moon pool, which is like a diving bell enlarged to the size of a room or two, and with the water–air interface at the bottom confined to a section rather than forming the entire bottom of the structure.
Wet bell[edit]
See also: Surface-supplied diving skills
  Open diving bell on a stern mounted launch and recovery system 
A wet bell is a platform for lowering and lifting divers to and from the underwater workplace, which has an air filled space, open at the bottom, where the divers can stand or sit with their heads out of the water. The air space is at ambient pressure at all times, so there are no great pressure differences, and the greatest structural loads are usually self weight and the buoyancy of the air space. A fairly heavy ballast is often required to counteract the buoyancy of the airspace, and this is usually set low at the bottom of the bell, which helps with stability.[1] The base of the bell is usually a grating or deck which the divers can stand on, and folding seats may be fitted for the divers' comfort during ascent, as in-water decompression may be long. Other equipment that is carried on the bell include cylinders with the emergency gas supply, and racks or boxes for tools and equipment to be used on the job. There may be a tackle for hoisting and supporting a disabled diver so that their head projects into the air space.
Type 1 wet bell[edit]
The type 1 wet bell does not have an umbilical supplying the bell. Umbilicals supply the divers directly from the surface, similar to a diving stage. Divers deploying from a type 1 bell will exit on the opposite side to where the umbilicals enter the bell so that the umbilicals pass through the bell and the divers can find their way back to the bell at all times by following the umbilical. Bailout from a type 1 bell is done by exiting the bell on the side that the umbilicals enter the bell so they no longer pass through the bell, leaving the divers free to surface.
Type 2 wet bell[edit]
A gas panel inside the bell is supplied by the bell umbilical and the emergency gas cylinders, and supplies the divers' umbilicals and sometimes BIBS sets. There will be racks to hang the divers' excursion umbilicals, which for this application must not be buoyant. Abandonment of a type 2 wet bell requires the divers to manage their own umbilicals as they ascend along a remaining connection to the surface.
Operation of a wet bell[edit]
See also: Surface-supplied diving skills § Routine wet bell procedures, and Surface-supplied diving skills § Emergency wet bell procedures
The bell with divers on board is deployed from the working platform (usually a vessel) by a crane, davit or other mechanism with a man-rated winch. The bell is lowered into the water and to the working depth at a rate recommended by the decompression schedule, and which allows the divers to equalize comfortably. Wet bells with an air space will have the air space topped up as the bell descends and the air is compressed by increasing hydrostatic pressure. The air will also be refreshed as required to keep the carbon dioxide level acceptable to the occupants. The oxygen content is also replenished, but this is not the limiting factor, as the oxygen partial pressure will be higher than in surface air due to the depth.
When the bell is raised, the pressure will drop and excess air due to expansion will automatically spill under the edges. If the divers are breathing from the bell airspace at the time, it may need to be vented with additional air to maintain a low carbon dioxide level. The decrease in pressure is proportional to the depth as the airspace is at ambient pressure, and the ascent must be conducted according to the planned decompression schedule appropriate to the depth and duration of the diving operation.
Wet bell exterior view
Wet bell interior showing bell gas panel
Wet bell hoisting winch
Wet bell supply gas panel (left)
Wet bell supply gas panel (right)
Wet bell umbilical deck storage
Wet bell bailout gas cylinders
Closed bell[edit]
See also: Surface-supplied diving skills § Closed bell procedures, and Human factors in diving equipment design § Diving chambers
  Schematic of a dry bell with bell stage and clump weight
  Bell umbilical section
A closed or dry bell is a pressure vessel for human occupation which is lowered into the sea to the workplace, equalised in pressure to the environment, and opened to allow the divers in and out.  These functional requirements dictate the structure and arrangement.  The internal pressure requires a strong structure, and a sphere or spherical ended cylinder is most efficient for this purpose. When the bell is underwater, it must be possible for the occupants to get in or out without flooding the entire interior. This requires a pressure hatch at the bottom. The requirement that the bell retains its internal pressure when the external pressure is lowered dictates that the hatch opens inward, so that internal pressure will hold it closed.
Locking onto a decompression chamber at the surface is possible either from the bottom or the side. Using the bell bottom hatch for this purpose has the advantage of only needing one hatch, and the disadvantage of having to lift the bell up and place it over a vertical entry to the chamber.
The bell bottom hatch must be wide enough for a large diver fully kitted with appropriate bailout cylinders, to get in and out without undue difficulty, and it can not be closed while the diver is outside as the umbilical is tended through the hatch by the bellman. It must also be possible for the bellman to lift the working diver in through the hatch if he is unconscious, and close the hatch after him, so that the bell can be raised and pressurised for the ascent. A lifting tackle is usually fitted inside the bell for this purpose, and the bell may be partially flooded to assist the procedure.
The internal space must be large enough for a fully kitted diver and bellman (the stand-by diver responsible for manning the bell while the working diver is locked out) to sit, and for their umbilicals to be stowed neatly on racks, and the hatch to be opened inwards while they are inside. Anything bigger will make the bell heavier than it really needs to be, so all equipment that does not need to be inside is mounted outside. This includes a framework to support the ancillary equipment and protect the bell from impact and snagging on obstacles, and the emergency gas and power supplies, which are usually racked around the framework. The EGS is connected via manifolds to the internal gas panel. The part of the framework that keeps the lower hatch off the bottom is called the bell stage. It may be removable. The bell umbilical is connected to the bell via through hull fittings (hull penetrations), which must withstand all operating pressures without leaking. The internal gas panel connects to the hull penetrations and the diver's umbilicals. The umbilicals will carry main breathing gas supply, a communications cable, a pneumofathometer hose, hot water supply for suit heating, power for helmet mounted lights, and possibly gas reclaim hose and video cable. The bell umbilical will usually also carry a power cable for internal and external bell lighting. Hydraulic power lines for tools do not have to pass into the interior of the bell as they will never be used there, and tools can also be stored outside. There may be an emergency through-water communications system with a battery power supply, and a location transponder working on the international standard 37.5 kHz.[11] The bell may also have viewports and a medical lock.
A closed bell may be fitted with an umbilical cutter, a mechanism which allows the occupants to sever the bell umbilical from inside the sealed and pressurised bell in the event of an umbilical snag that prevents bell recovery. The device is typically hydraulically operated using a hand pump inside the bell, and can shear the umbilical at or just above the point where it is fastened to the top of the bell. Once cut, the bell can be raised and if the umbilical can then be recovered, it can be reconnected with only a short length lost.[12] An external connection known as a hot stab unit which allows an emergency umbilical to be connected to maintain life support in the bell during a rescue operation may be fitted. [13]
The divers in the bell may also be monitored from the diving control point by closed circuit video,[11] and the bell atmosphere can be monitored for volatile hydrocarbon contamination by a hyperbaric hydrocarbon analyser which can be linked to a topside repeater and set to give an alarm if the hydrocarbon levels exceed 10% of the anaesthetic level.[14][15]
The bell may be fitted with an external emergency battery power pack, carbon dioxide scrubber for the internal atmosphere, and air conditioner for temperature control. Power supply is typically 12 or 24V DC.[13] 
British mini-bell system[edit]
A variant of this system used in the North Sea oilfields between early 1986 and the early 90s was the Oceantech Minibell system, which was used for bell-bounce dives, and was operated as an open bell for the descent, and as a closed bell for the ascent. The divers would climb into the bell after stowing their umbilicals on outside racks, remove their helmets for outside storage, seal the bell, and return to the surface, venting to the depth of the first decompression stop. The bell would then be locked onto a deck decompression chamber, the divers transferred under pressure to complete decompression in the chamber, and the bell would be available for use for another dive.[16]
Deployment of a modern diving bell[edit]
  Personnel Transfer Capsule – closed diving bell
Diving bells are deployed over the side of the vessel or platform using a gantry or A-frame from which the clump weight and the bell are suspended. On dive support vessels with in-built saturation systems the bell may be deployed through a moon pool. The bell handling system is also known as the launch and recovery system (LARS).[17]
The bell umbilical supplies gas to the bell gas panel, and is separate from the divers' excursion umbilicals, which are connected to the gas panel on the inside of the bell. The bell umbilical is deployed from a large drum or umbilical basket and care is taken to keep the tension in the umbilical low but sufficient to remain near vertical in use and to roll up neatly during recovery, as this reduces the risk of the umbilical snagging on underwater obstructions.[17]
Wet bell handling differs from closed bell handling in that there is no requirement to transfer the bell to and from the chamber system to make a pressure-tight connection, and that a wet bell will be required to maintain a finely controlled speed of descent and ascent and remain at a fixed depth within fairly close tolerances for the occupants to decompress at a specific ambient pressure, whereas a closed bell can be removed from the water without delay and the speed of ascent and descent is not critical.
A bell diving team will usually include two divers in the bell, designated the working diver and bellman, though they may alternate these roles during the dive. The bellman is a stand-by diver and umbilical tender from the bell to the working diver, the operator of the on-board gas distribution panel, and has an umbilical about 2 m longer than the working diver to ensure that the working diver can be reached in an emergency. This can be adjusted by tying off the umbilicals inside the bell to limit deployment length, which must often be done in any case, to prevent the divers from approaching known hazards in the water. Depending on circumstances, there may also be a surface stand-by diver, with attendant in case there is an emergency where the surface diver could assist. The team be under the direct control of the diving supervisor and will also include a winch operator, and may include a dedicated surface gas panel operator.[11]
Deployment usually starts by lowering the clump weight, which is a large ballast weight suspended from a cable which runs down one side from the gantry, through a set of sheaves on the weight, and up the other side back to the gantry, where it is fastened. The weight hangs freely between the two parts of the cable, and due to its weight, hangs horizontally and keeps the cable under tension. The bell hangs between the parts of the cable, and has a fairlead on each side which slides along the cable as it is lowered or lifted. Deployment of the bell is by a cable attached to the top. As the bell is lowered, the fairleads prevent it from rotating on the deployment cable, which would put twist into the umbilical and risk loops or snagging. The clump weight cables therefore act as guidelines or rails along which the bell is lowered to the workplace, and raised back to the platform. If the lifting winch or cable fails, and the bell ballast is released, a positively buoyant bell can float up and the cables will guide it to the surface to a position where it can be recovered relatively easily. The clump weight cable can also be used as an emergency recovery system, in which case both bell and weight are lifted together.[17] An alternative system for preventing rotation on the lifting cable is the use of a cross-haul system, which may also be used as a means of adjusting the lateral position of the bell at working depth, and as an emergency recovery system.[11]
A closed bell handling system is used to move the bell from the position where it is locked on to the chamber system into the water, lower it to the working depth and hold it in position without excessive movement, and recover it to the chamber system. The system used to transfer the bell on deck may be a deck trolley system, an overhead gantry or a swinging A-frame. The system must constrain movement of the supported bell sufficiently to allow accurate location on the chamber trunking even in bad weather. A bell cursor may be used to control movement through and above the splash zone, and heave compensation gear may be used to limit vertical movement when in the water and clear of the cursor, particularly at working depth when the diver may be locked out and the bell is open to ambient pressure.[11]
A bell cursor is a device used to guide and control the motion of the bell through the air and the splash zone near the surface, where waves can move the bell significantly. It can either be a passive system which relies on additional ballast weight or an active system which uses a controlled drive system to provide vertical motion. The cursor has a cradle which locks onto the bell and which moves vertically on rails to constrain lateral movement. The bell is released and locked onto the cursor in the relatively still water below the splash zone.[17][11]
Heave compensation equipment is used to stabilise the depth of the bell by counteracting vertical movement of the handling system caused by movements of the platform, and usually also maintains correct tension on the guide wires. It is not usually essential, depending on the stability of the platform.[11]
Cross-hauling systems are cables from an independent lifting device which are intended to be used to move the bell laterally from a point directly below the LARS, and may also be used to limit rotation and as an emergency bell recovery system.[11]
Use with hyperbaric chambers[edit]
Commercial diving contractors generally use a closed bell in conjunction with a surface hyperbaric chamber, These have safety and ergonomic advantages and allow decompression to be carried out after the bell has been raised to the surface and back on board the diving support vessel. Closed bells are often used in saturation diving and undersea rescue operations. The diving bell would be connected via the mating flange of an airlock to the deck decompression chamber or saturation system for transfer under pressure of the occupants.
Air-lock diving bells[edit]
  Barge with air-lock diving ball for working on moorings
  Service vessel with diving bell which can be lowered to 10 m and accessed via airlock and a 2 m diameter access tube
The air lock diving-bell plant was a purpose-built barge for the laying, examination and repair of moorings for battleships[18] at Gibraltar harbour.[19][20] It was designed by Siebe Gorman of Lambeth and Forrestt &amp; Co. Ltd of Wivenhoe in Essex, who built and supplied it in 1902 to the British Admiralty.[18] 
The vessel came about from the specific conditions at Gibraltar. The heavy harbour moorings have three chains extending out radially along the seabed from a central ring, each terminating in a large anchor. Most harbours have a soft seabed, and it is usual to lay down moorings by settling anchors in the mud, clay or sand but this could not be done in Gibraltar harbour, where the seabed is hard rock.[21]
In operation the barge would be towed over the work site, moored in place with anchors, and the bell would be lowered vertically to the bottom.[19] and the water displaced by pumping. The work teams entered the bell through an airlock in the central access shaft. Working in ordinary clothes they could dig out anchorings for the moorings.[21]
The German service barge Carl Straat is similar in concept, but the bell is lowered by swinging the access tube. Carl Straat was built in 1963 for the Waterways and Shipping Directorate West in Münster. The 6 m × 4 m × 2.5 m bell is accessible through a 2 m diameter tube and an airlock. A pantograph system keeps the bell and internal stairs level at all depths. Maximum working depth is 10 m. The vessel is used on those inland waterways which have locks large enough to accommodate its 52 m length overall, 11.8 m beam and 1.6 m draft.[22][23]
Rescue bell[edit]
  A Swedish Navy submarine rescue diving bell from the early 1940s
Diving bells have been used for submarine rescue. The closed dry bell is designed to seal against the deck of the submarine above an escape hatch. Water in the space between the bell and the submarine is pumped out and the hatches can be opened to allow occupants to leave the submarine and enter the bell. The hatches are then closed, the bell skirt flooded to release it from the submarine, and the bell with its load of survivors is hoisted back to the surface, where the survivors exit and the bell may return for the next group. The internal pressure in the bell is usually kept at atmospheric pressure to minimise run time by eliminating the need for decompression, so the seal between the bell skirt and the submarine deck is critical to the safety of the operation. This seal is provided by using a flexible sealing material, usually a type of rubber, which is pressed firmly against the smooth hatch surround by the pressure differential when the skirt is pumped out.
Diver training[edit]
See also: Diver training
  Diver training using a wet bell
Divers qualified to work from bells are trained in the skills and procedures relevant to the type of bell they will be expected to work from. Open bells are generally used for surface oriented surface-supplied deep air diving, and closed bells are used for saturation diving and surface oriented mixed gas diving. These skills include the standard procedures for the deployment of the working diver from the bell, the tending of the working diver from the bell by the bellman, and the emergency and rescue procedures for both working diver and bellman. There is considerable similarity and significant differences in these procedures between open and closed bell diving.[24][25][26][27]
Underwater habitats[edit]
Main article: Underwater habitat
As noted above, further extension of the wet bell concept is the moon-pool-equipped underwater habitat, where divers may spend long periods in dry comfort while acclimated to the increased pressure experienced underwater. By not needing to return to the surface between excursions into the water, they can reduce the necessity for decompression (gradual reduction of pressure), after each excursion, required to avoid problems with nitrogen bubbles releasing from the bloodstream (the bends, also known as caisson disease). Such problems can occur at pressures greater than 1.6 standard atmospheres (160 kPa), corresponding to a depth of 6 metres (20 ft) of water. Divers in an ambient pressure habitat will require decompression when they return to the surface. This is a form of saturation diving.
In nature[edit]
The diving bell spider, Argyroneta aquatica, is a spider which lives entirely under water, even though it could survive on land.
Since the spider must breathe air, it constructs from silk a habitat like an open diving bell which it attaches to an underwater plant. The spider collects air in a thin layer around its body, trapped by dense hairs on its abdomen and legs. It transports this air to its diving bell to replenish the air supply in the bell. This allows the spider to remain in the bell for long periods, where it waits for its prey.
See also[edit]
Bathysphere – Unpowered spherical deep-sea observation submersible lowered on a cable
Benthoscope – Unpowered spherical deep-sea observation submersible lowered on a cable
Caisson (engineering) – Rigid structure to provide workers with a dry working environment below water level
Cofferdam – Barrier allowing liquid to be pumped out of an enclosed area
Diving chamber – Hyperbaric pressure vessel for human occupation used in diving operations
Moon pool – An opening in the base of a hull, platform, or chamber giving access to the water below
Timeline of diving technology – A chronological list of notable events in the history of underwater diving
Wet submarine – Ambient pressure diver propulsion vehicle
References[edit]
^ a b Staff. "Modern diving bells and chambers". divingheritage.com. Diving Heritage. Retrieved 22 February 2017..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Bevan, J. (1999). "Diving bells through the centuries". South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society Journal. 29 (1). ISSN 0813-1988. OCLC 16986801. Retrieved 2008-04-25.
^ Bachrach, Arthur J. (Spring 1998). "History of the Diving Bell". Historical Diving Times (21).
^ a b Davis, R H (1955). Deep Diving and Submarine Operations (6th ed.). Tolworth, Surbiton, Surrey: Siebe Gorman &amp; Company Ltd. p. 693.
^  John Winthrop. "Winthrop's Journal, vol. 2" (PDF). North of Boston Library Exchange. p. 67-68. Retrieved 24 June 2020.
^ Staff. "Timeline: 1663-1665 Fishing for cannons". www.vasamuseet.se. Vasa Museet. Retrieved 13 May 2017.
^ "The Life of Sir William Phips Chapter 1: Spanish Treasure". Spanish Treasure and the Canada Townships. New Boston Historical Society. Retrieved 3 October 2016.
^ Acott, C (1999). "A brief history of diving and decompression illness". South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society Journal. 29 (2). ISSN 0813-1988. OCLC 16986801. Retrieved 2009-03-17.
^ Edmonds, Carl; Lowry, C; Pennefather, John (1975). "History of diving". South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society Journal. 5 (2). Retrieved 2012-11-26.
^ a b Kilfeather, Siobhan Marie (2005). Dublin: A Cultural History. Oxford University Press. p. 63. ISBN 9780195182019.
^ a b c d e f g h Staff (August 2016). "13 - Closed bell diving". Guidance for diving supervisors IMCA D 022 (Revision 1 ed.). London, UK: International Marine Contractors Association. pp. 13–5.
^ "Umbilical cutter". Unique Group. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
^ a b "Bell equipment brochure D-BE Issue 02/2015" (PDF). www.uniquegroup.com. February 2015. Retrieved 24 June 2019.
^ "Diving &amp; Life Support: Analox HC Monitors - HYPER-GAS MKII". Unique Group. Retrieved 5 December 2017.
^ "Hypergas Mk II Hyperbaric HC Monitor" (PDF). www.analoxsensortechnology.com. Retrieved 5 December 2017.
^ Johns, Vic. "British Mini bell system". divingheritage.com. Diving Heritage. Retrieved 22 February 2017.
^ a b c d Bevan, John, ed. (2005). "Section 5.1". The Professional Divers's Handbook (second ed.). Gosport, UK: Submex Ltd. p. 200. ISBN 978-0950824260.
^ a b "Entrance to a Diving-Bell". Illustrated London News: 1 (Cover). 25 March 1906. An air-compression vessel, used for laying moorings for battleships, fitted with a diving-bell, the entrance to which is down the big funnel amidships. The headline painting here, appeared on the front cover of the Illustrated London News 25 March 1906
^ a b Davis, RH (1909). Diving Scientifically and Practically Considered. Being a Diving Manual and Handbook of Submarine Appliances (6th ed.). Tolworth, Surbiton, Surrey: Siebe Gorman &amp; Company Ltd. p. 693.
^ "Modern Diving Bells". Popular Mechanics: 409. 1907. Retrieved 30 April 2019.
^ a b Barlow, Doug (1969). "Getting down to the job". Gibraltar Chronicle. Archived from the original on 26 July 2004. Retrieved 1 May 2019.
^ "Taucherglockenschiff (TGS) "Carl Straat"". www.wsa-duisburg-rhein.wsv.de (in German). 2 January 2019. Retrieved 22 June 2010.
^ "Taucherglockenschiff (TGS)"Carl Straat"" (PDF). www.wsa-duisburg-rhein.wsv.de. Retrieved 22 June 2019.
^ Staff (October 2007). Class I Training Standard. South African Department of Labour.
^ Staff (October 2007). Class II Training Standard (Revision 5 ed.). South African Department of Labour.
^ Technical Committee on Diving and Caisson Systems: Subcommittee on Diver Training (July 2005).  Shanahan, Dave (ed.). Occupational diver training Z275.5-05. Mississauga, Ontario: Canadian Standards Association. pp. 42, 117, 221, 125, 135. ISBN 1-55397-858-7.
^ Staff (1992). "Section 2". Australian Standard AS2815.3-1992, Training and certification of occupational divers, Part 3: Air diving to 50m (2nd ed.). Homebush, New South Wales: Standards Australia. p. 9. ISBN 0-7262-7631-6.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Diving bells.
Historical Diving Society: The History of the Diving Bell
Historic diving bells
Modern diving bells
close call rapid depressurisation
vteUnderwater diving
Diving modes
Atmospheric pressure diving
Freediving
Saturation diving
Scuba diving
Snorkeling
Surface oriented diving
Surface-supplied diving
Unmanned diving
Diving equipment
Cleaning and disinfection of personal diving equipment
Human factors in diving equipment design
Basic equipment
Diving mask
Snorkel
Swimfin
Breathing gas
Bailout gas
Bottom gas
Breathing air
Decompression gas
Emergency gas supply
Heliox
Nitrox
Oxygen
Travel gas
Trimix
Buoyancy andtrim equipment
Buoyancy compensator
Power inflator
Dump valve
Diving weighting system
Ankle weights
Integrated weights
Trim weights
Weight belt
Decompressionequipment
Decompression buoy
Decompression cylinder
Decompression trapeze
Dive computer
Diving shot
Jersey upline
Jonline
Diving suit
Atmospheric diving suit
Dry suit
Sladen suit
Standard diving suit
Rash vest
Wetsuit
Dive skins
Hot-water suit
Helmetsand masks
Anti-fog
Diving helmet
Free-flow helmet
Lightweight demand helmet
Orinasal mask
Reclaim helmet
Shallow water helmet
Standard diving helmet
Diving mask
Band mask
Full-face mask
Half mask
Instrumentation
Bottom timer
Depth gauge
Dive computer
Dive timer
Diving watch
Helium release valve
Pneumofathometer
Submersible pressure gauge
Mobilityequipment
Diving bell
Closed bell
Wet bell
Diving stage
Swimfin
Monofin
PowerSwim
Towboard
Diverpropulsionvehicle
Advanced SEAL Delivery System
Cosmos CE2F series
Dry Combat Submersible
Human torpedo
Motorised Submersible Canoe
Necker Nymph
R-2 Mala-class swimmer delivery vehicle
SEAL Delivery Vehicle
Shallow Water Combat Submersible
Siluro San Bartolomeo
Wet Nellie
Wet sub
Safetyequipment
Alternative air source
Octopus regulator
Pony bottle
Bolt snap
Buddy line
Dive light
Diver's cutting tool
Diver's knife
Diver's telephone
Through-water communications
Diving bell
Diving safety harness
Emergency gas supply
Bailout block
Bailout bottle
Lifeline
Screw gate carabiner
Emergency locator beacon
Rescue tether
Safety helmet
Shark-proof cage
Snoopy loop
Navigation equipment
Distance line
Diving compass
Dive reel
Line marker
Surface marker buoy
Silt screw
Underwaterbreathingapparatus
Atmospheric diving suit
Diving cylinder
Burst disc
Diving cylinder valve
Diving helmet
Reclaim helmet
Diving regulator
Mechanism of diving regulators
Regulator malfunction
Regulator freeze
Single-hose regulator
Twin-hose regulator
Full face diving mask
Open-circuitscuba
Scuba set
Bailout bottle
Decompression cylinder
Independent doubles
Manifolded twin set
Scuba manifold
Pony bottle
Scuba configuration
Sidemount
Sling cylinder
Divingrebreathers
Carbon dioxide scrubber
Carleton CDBA
CDLSE
Cryogenic rebreather
CUMA
DSEA
Dolphin
Electro-galvanic oxygen sensor
FROGS
Halcyon PVR-BASC
Halcyon RB80
IDA71
Interspiro DCSC
KISS
LAR-5
LAR-6
LAR-V
LARU
Porpoise
Ray
Siebe Gorman CDBA
Siva
Viper
Surface-supplieddiving equipment
Air line
Diver's umbilical
Diving air compressor
Gas panel
Hookah
Scuba replacement
Sea Trek
Snuba
Standard diving dress
Escape set
Davis Submerged Escape Apparatus
Momsen lung
Steinke hood
Submarine Escape Immersion Equipment
Divingequipmentmanufacturers
AP Diving
Apeks
Aqua Lung America
Aqua Lung/La Spirotechnique
Beuchat
René Cavalero
Cis-Lunar
Cressi-Sub
Dacor
DESCO
Dive Xtras
Divex
Diving Unlimited International
Drägerwerk
Fenzy
Maurice Fernez
Technisub
Oscar Gugen
Heinke
HeinrichsWeikamp
Johnson Outdoors
Mares
Morse Diving
Nemrod
Oceanic Worldwide
Porpoise
Sub Sea Systems
Shearwater Research
Siebe Gorman
Submarine Products
Suunto
Diving support equipmentAccess equipment
Boarding stirrup
Diver lift
Diving bell
Diving ladder
Diving platform (scuba)
Diving stage
Downline
Jackstay
Launch and recovery system
Messenger line
Moon pool
Breathing gashandling
Air filtration
Activated carbon
Hopcalite
Molecular sieve
Silica gel
Booster pump
Carbon dioxide scrubber
Cascade filling system
Diver's pump
Diving air compressor
Diving air filter
Water separator
High pressure breathing air compressor
Low pressure breathing air compressor
Gas blending
Gas blending for scuba diving
Gas panel
Gas reclaim system
Gas storage bank
Gas storage quad
Gas storage tube
Helium analyzer
Nitrox production
Membrane gas separation
Pressure swing adsorption
Oxygen analyser
Oxygen compatibility
Decompressionequipment
Built-in breathing system
Decompression tables
Diving bell
Bell cursor
Closed bell
Clump weight
Launch and recovery system
Wet bell
Diving chamber
Diving stage
Recreational Dive Planner
Saturation system
Platforms
Dive boat
Canoe and kayak diving
Combat Rubber Raiding Craft
Liveaboard
Subskimmer
Diving support vessel
HMS Challenger (K07)
Underwaterhabitat
Aquarius Reef Base
Continental Shelf Station Two
Helgoland Habitat
Jules' Undersea Lodge
Scott Carpenter Space Analog Station
SEALAB
Tektite habitat
Remotely operatedunderwater vehicles
8A4-class ROUV
ABISMO
Atlantis ROV Team
CURV
Deep Drone
Épaulard
Global Explorer ROV
Goldfish-class ROUV
Kaikō ROV
Long-Term Mine Reconnaissance System
Mini Rover ROV
OpenROV
ROV KIEL 6000
ROV PHOCA
Scorpio ROV
Sea Dragon-class ROV
Seabed tractor
Seafox drone
Seahorse ROUV
SeaPerch
SJT-class ROUV
T1200 Trenching Unit
VideoRay UROVs
Safety equipment
Diver down flag
Diving shot
Hyperbaric lifeboat
Hyperbaric stretcher
Jackstay
Jonline
Reserve gas supply
General
Diving spread
Air spread
Saturation spread
Hot water system
Sonar
Underwater acoustic positioning system
Underwater acoustic communication
FreedivingActivities
Aquathlon
Apnoea finswimming
Freediving
Haenyeo
Pearl hunting
Ama
Snorkeling
Spearfishing
Underwater football
Underwater hockey
Underwater ice hockey
Underwater rugby
Underwater target shooting
Competitions
Nordic Deep
Vertical Blue
Disciplines
Constant weight (CWT)
Constant weight without fins (CNF)
Dynamic apnea (DYN)
Dynamic apnea without fins (DNF)
Free immersion (FIM)
No-limits apnea (NLT)
Static apnea (STA)
Skandalopetra diving
Variable weight apnea (VWT)
Variable weight apnea without fins
Equipment
Diving mask
Diving suit
Hawaiian sling
Polespear
Snorkel (swimming)
Speargun
Swimfins
Monofin
Water polo cap
Freedivers
Deborah Andollo
Peppo Biscarini
Sara Campbell
Derya Can Göçen
Goran Čolak
Carlos Coste
Robert Croft
Mandy-Rae Cruickshank
Yasemin Dalkılıç
Leonardo D'Imporzano
Flavia Eberhard
Şahika Ercümen
Emma Farrell
Francisco Ferreras
Pierre Frolla
Flavia Eberhard
Mehgan Heaney-Grier
Elisabeth Kristoffersen
Loïc Leferme
Enzo Maiorca
Jacques Mayol
Audrey Mestre
Karol Meyer
Stéphane Mifsud
Alexey Molchanov
Natalia Molchanova
Dave Mullins
Patrick Musimu
Guillaume Néry
Herbert Nitsch
Umberto Pelizzari
Annelie Pompe
Michal Risian
Stig Severinsen
Tom Sietas
Aharon Solomons
Martin Štěpánek
Walter Steyn
Tanya Streeter
William Trubridge
Devrim Cenk Ulusoy
Danai Varveri
Alessia Zecchini
Nataliia Zharkova
Hazards
Barotrauma
Drowning
Freediving blackout
Deep-water blackout
Shallow-water blackout
Hypercapnia
Hypothermia
Historical
Ama
Octopus wrestling
Swimming at the 1900 Summer Olympics – Men's underwater swimming
Organisations
AIDA International
Scuba Schools International
Australian Underwater Federation
British Freediving Association
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins
Performance Freediving International
Professional divingOccupations
Ama
Commercial diver
Commercial offshore diver
Hazmat diver
Divemaster
Diving instructor
Diving safety officer
Diving superintendent
Diving supervisor
Haenyeo
Media diver
Police diver
Public safety diver
Scientific diver
Underwater archaeologist
Military diving
Army engineer diver
Clearance diver
Frogman
Royal Navy ships diver
Special Boat Service
United States military divers
U.S. Navy diver
U.S.Navy master diver
United States Navy SEALs
Underwater Demolition Team
Underwater work
Commercial offshore diving
Dive leader
Diver training
Recreational diver training
Hyperbaric welding
Media diving
Nondestructive testing
Pearl hunting
Police diving
Potable water diving
Public safety diving
Scientific diving
Ships husbandry
Sponge diving
Submarine pipeline
Underwater archaeology
Archaeology of shipwrecks
Underwater construction
Offshore construction
Underwater demolition
Underwater photography
Underwater search and recovery
Underwater videography
Salvage diving
SS Egypt
Kronan
La Belle
SS Laurentic
RMS Lusitania
Mars
Mary Rose
USS Monitor
HMS Royal George
Vasa
Diving contractors
COMEX
Helix Energy Solutions Group
Tools &amp; equipment
Abrasive waterjet
Airlift
Baited remote underwater video
In-water surface cleaning
Brush cart
Cavitation cleaning
Pressure washing
Pigging
Lifting bag
Remotely operated underwater vehicle
Thermal lance
Tremie
Water jetting
Underwaterweapons
Limpet mine
Speargun
Hawaiian sling
Polespear
Underwaterfirearm
Gyrojet
Mk 1 Underwater Defense Gun
Powerhead
Underwater pistols
Heckler &amp; Koch P11
SPP-1 underwater pistol
Underwater revolvers
AAI underwater revolver
Underwater rifles
ADS amphibious rifle
APS underwater rifle
ASM-DT amphibious rifle
Recreational divingSpecialties
Altitude diving
Cave diving
Deep diving
Ice diving
Muck diving
Open-water diving
Rebreather diving
Sidemount diving
Solo diving
Technical diving
Wreck diving
Diverorganisations
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Cave Divers Association of Australia (CDAA)
Cave Diving Group (CDG)
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn (CFT)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas (FEDAS)
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins (FFESSM)
International Association for Handicapped Divers (IAHD)
National Association for Cave Diving (NACD)
Woodville Karst Plain Project (WKPP)
Diving tourismindustry
Dive center
Environmental impact of recreational diving
Scuba diving tourism
Shark tourism
Sinking ships for wreck diving sites
Diving eventsand festivals
Diversnight
Underwater Bike Race
Recreationaldive sitesReef divingregions
Arrecifes de Cozumel National Park
Edmonds Underwater Park
Great Barrier Reef
iSimangaliso Marine Protected Area
Poor Knights Islands
Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area
Reef divesites
Artificial reef
Gibraltar Artificial Reef
Shark River Reef
Osborne Reef
Fanadir
Gamul Kebir
Palancar Reef
Underwater artworks
Cancún Underwater Museum
Christ of the Abyss
Molinere Underwater Sculpture Park
Wreck divingregions
Chuuk Lagoon
Edmonds Underwater Park
Finger Lakes Underwater Preserve Association
Maritime Heritage Trail – Battle of Saipan
Michigan Underwater Preserves
Robben Island Marine Protected Area
Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area
Tulagi
Tulamben
Whitefish Point Underwater Preserve
Wreck Alley, San Diego
Wreck divesites
HMS A1
HMS A3
USS Aaron Ward
Abessinia
Aeolian Sky
Albert C. Field
Andrea Doria
Antilla
Antilles
Aquila
USS Arkansas
Bianca C.
SS Binnendijk
HMS Boadicea
Booya
HMSAS Bloemfontein
Breda
HMAS Brisbane
HMHS Britannic
Bungsberg
HMAS Canberra
Carl D. Bradley
Carnatic
SMS Dresden
Dunraven
Eastfield
HMT Elk
Ellengowan
RMS Empress of Ireland
HMS Falmouth
Fifi
SS Francisco Morazan
Fujikawa Maru
Fumizuki
SATS General Botha
USNS General Hoyt S. Vandenberg
HMS Ghurka
Glen Strathallan
SAS Good Hope
Gothenburg
Herzogin Cecilie
Hilma Hooker
Hispania
HMS Hood
HMAS Hobart
Igara
James Eagan Layne
Captain Keith Tibbetts
King Cruiser
SMS Kronprinz
Kyarra
HMS Laforey
USAT Liberty
Louis Sheid
USS LST-507
SMS Markgraf
Mikhail Lermontov
HMS M2
Maine
Maloja
HMS Maori
Marguerite
SS Mauna Loa
USAT Meigs
Mendi
USCGC Mohawk
Mohegan
RMS Moldavia
HMS Montagu
MV RMS Mulheim
Nagato
Oceana
USS Oriskany
Oslofjord
P29
P31
Pedernales
Persier
HMAS Perth
SAS Pietermaritzburg
Piłsudski
Pool Fisher
HMS Port Napier
Preußen
President Coolidge
PS Queen Victoria
Radaas
Rainbow Warrior
RMS Rhone
Rondo
Rosehill
Royal Adelaide
Royal Charter
Rozi
HMS Safari
Salem Express
USS Saratoga
USS Scuffle
HMS Scylla
HMS Sidon
USS Spiegel Grove
Stanegarth
Stanwood
Stella
HMAS Swan
USS Tarpon
Thesis
Thistlegorm
Toa Maru
Torrey Canyon
SAS Transvaal
U-40
U-352
U-1195
Um El Faroud
Varvassi
Walter L M Russ
Washingtonian (1913)
HMNZS Wellington
USS Yancey
Yongala
Zenobia
Zealandia
Zingara
Cave divingsites
Blauhöhle
Chinhoyi Caves
Devil's Throat at Punta Sur
Engelbrecht Cave
Fossil Cave
Piccaninnie Ponds
Pluragrotta
Pollatoomary
Sistema Ox Bel Ha
Sistema Sac Actun
Sistema Dos Ojos
Sistema Nohoch Nah Chich
Freshwaterdives
Dutch Springs
Ewens Ponds
Little Blue Lake
Training sites
Capernwray Dive Centre
National Diving and Activity Centre
Stoney Cove
Open oceandiving
Blue-water diving
Black-water diving
Diving safety
Human factors in diving equipment design
Human factors in diving safety
Life-support system
Safety-critical system
Scuba diving fatalities
Divinghazards
List of diving hazards and precautions
Environmental
Current
Delta-P
Entanglement hazard
Overhead
Silt out
Wave action
Equipment
Freeflow
Use of breathing equipment in an underwater environment
Failure of diving equipment other than breathing apparatus
Single point of failure
Physiological
Cold shock response
Decompression
Nitrogen narcosis
Oxygen toxicity
Seasickness
Uncontrolled decompression
Diver behaviour and competence
Lack of competence
Overconfidence effect
Panic
Task loading
Trait anxiety
Willful violation
Consequences
Barotrauma
Decompression sickness
Drowning
Hypothermia
Hypoxia
Hypercapnia
Hyperthermia
Divingprocedures
Ascending and descending
Emergency ascent
Boat diving
Canoe and kayak diving
Buddy diving
buddy check
Decompression
Decompression practice
Pyle stop
Ratio decompression
Dive briefing
Dive log
Dive planning
Scuba gas planning
Diver communications
Diving hand signals
Diving line signals
Diver voice communications
Diver rescue
Diver training
Doing It Right
Drift diving
Gas blending for scuba diving
Night diving
Solo diving
Water safety
Riskmanagement
Checklist
Hazard identification and risk assessment
Hazard analysis
Job safety analysis
Risk assessment
Risk control
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Incident pit
Lockout–tagout
Permit To Work
Redundancy
Safety data sheet
Situation awareness
Diving team
Bellman
Chamber operator
Diver medical technician
Diver's attendant
Diving supervisor
Diving systems technician
Gas man
Life support technician
Stand-by diver
Equipmentsafety
Breathing gas quality
Testing and inspection of diving cylinders
Hydrostatic test
Sustained load cracking
Diving regulator
Breathing performance of regulators
Occupationalsafety andhealth
Approaches to safety
Job safety analysis
Risk assessment
Toolbox talk
Housekeeping
Association of Diving Contractors International
Code of practice
Contingency plan
Diving regulations
Emergency procedure
Emergency response plan
Evacuation plan
Hazardous Materials Identification System
Hierarchy of hazard controls
Administrative controls
Engineering controls
Hazard elimination
Hazard substitution
Personal protective equipment
International Marine Contractors Association
Occupational hazard
Biological hazard
Chemical hazard
Physical hazard
Psychosocial hazard
Occupational hygiene
Exposure assessment
Occupational exposure limit
Workplace health surveillance
Safety culture
Code of practice
Diving safety officer
Diving superintendent
Health and safety representative
Operations manual
Safety meeting
Standard operating procedure
Diving medicineDivingdisorders
List of signs and symptoms of diving disorders
Cramp
Motion sickness
Surfer's ear
Pressurerelated
Alternobaric vertigo
Barostriction
Barotrauma
Air embolism
Aerosinusitis
Barodontalgia
Dental barotrauma
Pulmonary barotrauma
Compression arthralgia
Decompression illness
Dysbarism
Oxygen
Freediving blackout
Hyperoxia
Hypoxia
Oxygen toxicity
Inert gases
Avascular necrosis
Decompression sickness
Isobaric counterdiffusion
Taravana
Dysbaric osteonecrosis
High-pressure nervous syndrome
Hydrogen narcosis
Nitrogen narcosis
Carbon dioxide
Hypercapnia
Hypocapnia
Breathing gascontaminants
Carbon monoxide poisoning
Immersionrelated
Asphyxia
Drowning
Hypothermia
Immersion diuresis
Instinctive drowning response
Laryngospasm
Salt water aspiration syndrome
Swimming-induced pulmonary edema
Treatment
Demand valve oxygen therapy
First aid
Hyperbaric medicine
Hyperbaric treatment schedules
In-water recompression
Oxygen therapy
Therapeutic recompression
Personnel
Diving Medical Examiner
Diving Medical Practitioner
Diving Medical Technician
Hyperbaric nursing
Screening
Atrial septal defect
Effects of drugs on fitness to dive
Fitness to dive
Psychological fitness to dive
ResearchResearchers indiving physiologyand medicine
Arthur J. Bachrach
Albert R. Behnke
Paul Bert
George F. Bond
Robert Boyle
Albert A. Bühlmann
John R. Clarke
Guybon Chesney Castell Damant
Kenneth William Donald
William Paul Fife
John Scott Haldane
Robert William Hamilton Jr.
Leonard Erskine Hill
Brian Andrew Hills
Felix Hoppe-Seyler
Christian J. Lambertsen
Simon Mitchell
Charles Momsen
John Rawlins R.N.
Charles Wesley Shilling
Edward D. Thalmann
Jacques Triger
Diving medicalresearchorganisations
Aerospace Medical Association
Divers Alert Network (DAN)
Diving Diseases Research Centre (DDRC)
Diving Medical Advisory Council (DMAC)
European Diving Technology Committee (EDTC)
European Underwater and Baromedical Society (EUBS)
National Board of Diving and Hyperbaric Medical Technology
Naval Submarine Medical Research Laboratory
Royal Australian Navy School of Underwater Medicine
Rubicon Foundation
South Pacific Underwater Medicine Society (SPUMS)
Southern African Underwater and Hyperbaric Medical Association (SAUHMA)
Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society (UHMS)
United States Navy Experimental Diving Unit (NEDU)
Law
Civil liability in recreational diving
Diving regulations
Duty of care
List of legislation regulating underwater diving
Investigation of diving accidents
UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage
History of underwater diving
History of decompression research and development
History of scuba diving
List of researchers in underwater diving
Timeline of diving technology
Underwater diving in popular culture
Archeologicalsites
SS Commodore
USS Monitor
Queen Anne's Revenge
Whydah Gally
Underwater artand artists
The Diver
Jason deCaires Taylor
Engineersand inventors
William Beebe
Georges Beuchat
John R. Clarke
Jacques Cousteau
Charles Anthony Deane
John Deane
Ted Eldred
Henry Fleuss
Émile Gagnan
Joseph-Martin Cabirol
Christian J. Lambertsen
Yves Le Prieur
John Lethbridge
Ernest William Moir
Joseph Salim Peress
Auguste Piccard
Willard Franklyn Searle
Augustus Siebe
Jacques Triger
Equipment
Aqua-Lung
RV Calypso
SP-350 Denise
Nikonos
Porpoise regulator
Standard diving dress
Vintage scuba
Military andcovert operations
Raid on Alexandria (1941)
Sinking of the Rainbow Warrior
Scientific projects
1992 cageless shark-diving expedition
Mission 31
IncidentsDive boat incidents
Sinking of MV Conception
Fire on MV Red Sea Aggressor
Diver rescues
Alpazat cave rescue
Tham Luang cave rescue
Early diving
John Day (carpenter)
Charles Spalding
Ebenezer Watson
Freediving fatalities
Loïc Leferme
Audrey Mestre
Nicholas Mevoli
Natalia Molchanova
Offshorediving incidents
Byford Dolphin diving bell accident
Drill Master diving accident
Star Canopus diving accident
Stena Seaspread diving accident
Venture One diving accident
Waage Drill II diving accident
Wildrake diving accident
Professionaldiving fatalities
Roger Baldwin
John Bennett
Victor F. Guiel Jr.
Craig M. Hoffman
Peter Henry Michael Holmes
Johnson Sea Link accident
Edwin Clayton Link
Gerard Anthony Prangley
Pier Skipness
Robert John Smyth
Albert D. Stover
Richard A. Walker
Lothar Michael Ward
Joachim Wendler
Bradley Westell
Arne Zetterström
Scuba divingfatalities
Ricardo Armbruster
Allan Bridge
David Bright
Berry L. Cannon
Cotton Coulson
Cláudio Coutinho
E. Yale Dawson
Deon Dreyer
Milan Dufek
Sheck Exley
Maurice Fargues
Fernando Garfella Palmer
Guy Garman
Steve Irwin
Jim Jones
Henry Way Kendall
Artur Kozłowski
Chris and Chrissy Rouse
Kirsty MacColl
Agnes Milowka
François de Roubaix
Dave Shaw
Wesley C. Skiles
Dewey Smith
Rob Stewart
Esbjörn Svensson
Josef Velek
PublicationsManuals
NOAA Diving Manual
U.S. Navy Diving Manual
Basic Cave Diving: A Blueprint for Survival
Underwater Handbook
Bennett and Elliott's physiology and medicine of diving
Encyclopedia of Recreational Diving
The new science of skin and scuba diving
Professional Diver's Handbook
Basic Scuba
Standards andCodes of Practice
Code of Practice for Scientific Diving (UNESCO)
DIN 7876
IMCA Code of Practice for Offshore Diving
ISO 24801 Recreational diving services — Requirements for the training of recreational scuba divers
General non-fiction
The Darkness Beckons
Goldfinder
The Last Dive
Shadow Divers
The Silent World: A Story of Undersea Discovery and Adventure
Research
List of Divers Alert Network publications
Dive guides
Training and registrationDivertraining
Competence and assessment
Competency-based learning
Refresher training
Skill assessment
Diver training standard
Diving instructor
Diving school
Occupational diver training
Commercial diver training
Military diver training
Public safety diver training
Scientific diver training
Recreational diver training
Introductory diving
Teaching method
Muscle memory
Overlearning
Stress exposure training
Skills
Combat sidestroke
Diver navigation
Diver trim
Ear clearing
Frenzel maneuver
Valsalva maneuver
Finning techniques
Scuba skills
Buddy breathing
Low impact diving
Diamond Reef System
Surface-supplied diving skills
Underwater searches
RecreationalscubacertificationlevelsCore diving skills
Advanced Open Water Diver
Autonomous diver
CMAS* scuba diver
CMAS** scuba diver
Introductory diving
Low Impact Diver
Master Scuba Diver
Open Water Diver
Supervised diver
Leadership skills
Dive leader
Divemaster
Diving instructor
Master Instructor
Specialist skills
Rescue Diver
Solo diver
Diver trainingcertificationand registrationorganisations
European Underwater Federation (EUF)
International Diving Regulators and Certifiers Forum (IDRCF)
International Diving Schools Association (IDSA)
International Marine Contractors Association (IMCA)
List of diver certification organizations
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Nautical Archaeology Society
Universal Referral Program
World Recreational Scuba Training Council (WRSTC)
Commercial divercertificationauthorities
Australian Diver Accreditation Scheme (ADAS)
Commercial diver registration in South Africa
Divers Institute of Technology
Health and Safety Executive (HSE)
Department of Employment and Labour
Commercial divingschools
Divers Academy International
Norwegian diver school
Free-divingcertificationagencies
AIDA International (AIDA)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Performance Freediving International (PI)
Scuba Schools International (SSI)
Recreational scubacertificationagencies
American Canadian Underwater Certifications (ACUC)
American Nitrox Divers International (ANDI)
Association nationale des moniteurs de plongée (ANMP)
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn (CFT)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas (FEDAS)
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins (FFESSM)
Federazione Italiana Attività Subacquee (FIAS)
Global Underwater Explorers (GUE)
International Association for Handicapped Divers (IAHD)
International Association of Nitrox and Technical Divers (IANTD)
International Diving Educators Association (IDEA)
Israeli Diving Federation (TIDF)
National Academy of Scuba Educators (NASE)
National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI)
Nederlandse Onderwatersport Bond (NOB)
Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)
Professional Diving Instructors Corporation (PDIC)
Sub-Aqua Association (SAA)
Scuba Diving International (SDI)
Scuba Educators International (SEI)
Scottish Sub Aqua Club (ScotSAC)
Scuba Schools International (SSI)
Türkiye Sualtı Sporları Federasyonu (TSSF)
United Diving Instructors (UDI)
YMCA SCUBA Program
Scientific divercertificationauthorities
American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS)
CMAS Scientific Committee
Technicalcertificationagencies
American Nitrox Divers International (ANDI)
British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC)
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques (CMAS)
Diving Science and Technology (DSAT)
Federazione Italiana Attività Subacquee (FIAS)
International Association of Nitrox and Technical Divers (IANTD)
Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)
Professional Diving Instructors Corporation (PDIC)
Trimix Scuba Association (TSA)
Technical Extended Range (TXR)
Cavediving
Cave Divers Association of Australia (CDAA)
Cave Diving Group (CDG)
Global Underwater Explorers (GUE)
National Association for Cave Diving (NACD)
National Speleological Society#Cave Diving Group (CDG)
National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI)
Technical Diving International (TDI)
Underwater sportsSurface snorkeling
Finswimming
Snorkeling/breath-hold
Spearfishing
Underwater football
Underwater hockey
Australia
Turkey
Underwater rugby
Colombia
United States
Underwater target shooting
Breath-hold
Aquathlon
Apnoea finswimming
Freediving
Underwater ice hockey
Open Circuit Scuba
Immersion finswimming
Sport diving
Underwater cycling
Underwater orienteering
Underwater photography
Rebreather
Underwater photography
Sports governingorganisations and federations
International
AIDA International
Confédération Mondiale des Activités Subaquatiques)
National
AIDA Hellas
Australian Underwater Federation
British Freediving Association
British Octopush Association
British Underwater Sports Association
Comhairle Fo-Thuinn
Federación Española de Actividades Subacuáticas
Fédération Française d'Études et de Sports Sous-Marins
South African Underwater Sports Federation
Türkiye Sualtı Sporları Federasyonu
Underwater Society of America)
Competitions
14th CMAS Underwater Photography World Championship
Underwater diversPioneersof diving
Eduard Admetlla i Lázaro
Aquanaut
James F. Cahill
Jacques Cousteau
Billy Deans
Hans Hass
Dick Rutkowski
Teseo Tesei
Arne Zetterström
Underwaterscientistsarchaeologists andenvironmentalists
Michael Arbuthnot
Robert Ballard
George Bass
Mensun Bound
Louis Boutan
Hugh Bradner
Cathy Church
Eugenie Clark
James P. Delgado
Sylvia Earle
John Christopher Fine
George R. Fischer
Anders Franzén
Honor Frost
Fernando Garfella Palmer
David Gibbins
Graham Jessop
Swietenia Puspa Lestari
Pilar Luna
Robert F. Marx
Anna Marguerite McCann
Innes McCartney
Charles T. Meide
David Moore
Mark M. Newell
Lyuba Ognenova-Marinova
John Peter Oleson
Mendel L. Peterson
Richard Pyle
William R. Royal
Margaret Rule
Gunter Schöbel
Stephanie Schwabe
Myriam Seco
E. Lee Spence
Robert Sténuit
Peter Throckmorton
Scuba recordholders
Pascal Bernabé
Jim Bowden
Mark Ellyatt
Sheck Exley
Nuno Gomes
Claudia Serpieri
Krzysztof Starnawski
Underwaterfilmmakersand presenters
Samir Alhafith
David Attenborough
Ramón Bravo
Jean-Michel Cousteau
Richie Kohler
Ivan Tors
Andrew Wight
Underwaterphotographers
Tamara Benitez
Georges Beuchat
Adrian Biddle
Jonathan Bird
Eric Cheng
Neville Coleman
Jacques Cousteau
John D. Craig
Ben Cropp
Bernard Delemotte
David Doubilet
John Christopher Fine
Dermot FitzGerald
Rodney Fox
Ric Frazier
Stephen Frink
Peter Gimbel
Monty Halls
Hans Hass
Henry Way Kendall
Rudie Kuiter
Joseph B. MacInnis
Luis Marden
Agnes Milowka
Noel Monkman
Steve Parish
Zale Parry
Pierre Petit
Leni Riefenstahl
Peter Scoones
Brian Skerry
Wesley C. Skiles
E. Lee Spence
Philippe Tailliez
Ron Taylor
Valerie Taylor
Albert Tillman
John Veltri
Stan Waterman
Michele Westmorland
John Ernest Williamson
J. Lamar Worzel
Underwaterexplorers
Caves
Graham Balcombe
Sheck Exley
Martyn Farr
Jochen Hasenmayer
Jill Heinerth
Jarrod Jablonski
William Hogarth Main
Tom Mount
Jack Sheppard
Bill Stone
Reefs
Wrecks
Leigh Bishop
John Chatterton
Clive Cussler
Bill Nagle
Aristotelis Zervoudis
Aquanauts
Andrew Abercromby
Joseph M. Acaba
Clayton Anderson
Richard R. Arnold
Serena Auñón-Chancellor
Michael Barratt (astronaut)
Robert L. Behnken
Randolph Bresnik
Timothy J. Broderick
Justin Brown
Berry L. Cannon
Scott Carpenter
Gregory Chamitoff
Steve Chappell
Catherine Coleman
Robin Cook
Craig B. Cooper
Fabien Cousteau
Philippe Cousteau
Timothy Creamer
Jonathan Dory
Pedro Duque
Sylvia Earle
Jeanette Epps
Sheck Exley
Albert Falco
Andrew J. Feustel
Michael Fincke
Satoshi Furukawa
Ronald J. Garan Jr.
Michael L. Gernhardt
Christopher E. Gerty
David Gruber
Chris Hadfield
Jeremy Hansen
José M. Hernández
John Herrington
Paul Hill
Akihiko Hoshide
Mark Hulsbeck
Emma Hwang
Norishige Kanai
Les Kaufman
Scott Kelly
Karen Kohanowich
Timothy Kopra
Dominic Landucci
Jon Lindbergh
Kjell N. Lindgren
Michael López-Alegría
Joseph B. MacInnis
Sandra Magnus
Thomas Marshburn
Matthias Maurer
K. Megan McArthur
Craig McKinley
Jessica Meir
Simone Melchior
Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger
Andreas Mogensen
Karen Nyberg
John D. Olivas
Takuya Onishi
Luca Parmitano
Nicholas Patrick
Tim Peake
Thomas Pesquet
Marc Reagan
Garrett Reisman
Kathleen Rubins
Dick Rutkowski
Tara Ruttley
David Saint-Jacques
Josef Schmid
Robert Sheats
Dewey Smith
Steve Squyres
Heidemarie Stefanyshyn-Piper
Robert Sténuit
Hervé Stevenin
Nicole Stott
James Talacek
Daniel M. Tani
Robert Thirsk
Bill Todd
Mark T. Vande Hei
Koichi Wakata
Rex J. Walheim
Shannon Walker
John Morgan Wells
Joachim Wendler
Douglas H. Wheelock
Peggy Whitson
Dafydd Williams
Jeffrey Williams
Sunita Williams
Gregory R. Wiseman
Kimiya Yui
Writers and journalists
Michael C. Barnette
Victor Berge
Philippe Diolé
Gary Gentile
Bret Gilliam
Bob Halstead
Trevor Jackson
Steve Lewis
John Mattera
Rescuers
Craig Challen
Richard Harris
Rick Stanton
John Volanthen
Frogmen
Lionel Crabb
Commercial salvors
Keith Jessop
Science of underwater divingDivingphysics
Breathing performance of regulators
Buoyancy
Archimedes' principle
Neutral buoyancy
Concentration
Diffusion
Molecular diffusion
Force
Oxygen fraction
Permeation
Psychrometric constant
Solubility
Henry's law
Saturation
Solution
Supersaturation
Surface tension
Hydrophobe
Surfactant
Temperature
Torricellian chamber
Underwater acoustics
Modulated ultrasound
Underwater vision
Snell's law
Underwater computer vision
Weight
Apparent weight
Gas laws
Amontons's law
Boyle's law
Charles's law
Combined gas law
Dalton's law
Gay-Lussac's law
Ideal gas law
Pressure
Absolute pressure
Ambient pressure
Atmospheric pressure
Gauge pressure
Hydrostatic pressure
Metre sea water
Partial pressure
Divingphysiology
Artificial gills
Cold shock response
Diving reflex
Equivalent narcotic depth
Lipid
Maximum operating depth
Metabolism
Physiological response to water immersion
Tissue
Underwater vision
Circulatorysystem
Blood shift
Patent foramen ovale
Perfusion
Pulmonary circulation
Systemic circulation
Decompressiontheory
Decompression models:
Bühlmann decompression algorithm
Haldane's decompression model
Reduced gradient bubble model
Thalmann algorithm
Thermodynamic model of decompression
Varying Permeability Model
Equivalent air depth
Equivalent narcotic depth
Oxygen window in diving decompression
Physiology of decompression
Respiration
Blood–air barrier
Breathing
CO₂ retention
Dead space
Gas exchange
Hypocapnia
Respiratory exchange ratio
Respiratory quotient
Respiratory system
Work of breathing
DivingenvironmentClassification
List of diving environments by type
Altitude diving
Benign water diving
Confined water diving
Deep diving
Inland diving
Inshore diving
Muck diving
Night diving
Open-water diving
Black-water diving
Blue-water diving
Penetration diving
Cave diving
Ice diving
Wreck diving
Recreational dive sites
Underwater environment
Impact
Environmental impact of recreational diving
Low impact diving
Environmentalfactors
Algal bloom
Currents:
Current
Longshore drift
Ocean current
Rip current
Tidal race
Undertow
Upwelling
Ekman transport
Halocline
Reef
Coral reef
Stratification
Thermocline
Tides
Turbidity
Wind wave
Breaking wave
Surf
Surge
Wave shoaling
Other
Bathysphere
Defense against swimmer incursions
Diver detection sonar
Offshore survey
Underwater domain awareness
Awards and events
Hans Hass Award
International Scuba Diving Hall of Fame
London Diving Chamber Dive Lectures
NOGI Awards
Deep-submergencevehicle
Aluminaut
DSV Alvin
American submarine NR-1
Bathyscaphe
Archimède
FNRS-2
FNRS-3
FNRS-4
Harmony class bathyscaphe
Sea Pole-class bathyscaphe
Trieste II
Deepsea Challenger
Ictineu 3
JAGO
Jiaolong
Konsul-class submersible
DSV Limiting Factor
Russian submarine Losharik
Mir
Nautile
Pisces-class deep submergence vehicle
DSV Sea Cliff
DSV Shinkai
DSV Shinkai 2000
DSV Shinkai 6500
DSV Turtle
DSV-5 Nemo
Deep-submergencerescue vehicle
LR5
LR7
MSM-1
Mystic-class deep-submergence rescue vehicle
DSRV-1 Mystic
DSRV-2 Avalon
NATO Submarine Rescue System
Priz-class deep-submergence rescue vehicle
Russian deep submergence rescue vehicle AS-28
Russian submarine AS-34
ASRV Remora
SRV-300
Submarine Rescue Diving Recompression System
Type 7103 DSRV
URF (Swedish Navy)
Specialinterestgroups
Artificial Reef Society of British Columbia
CMAS Europe
Coral Reef Alliance
Diving Equipment and Marketing Association
Divers Alert Network
Green Fins
Historical Diving Society
Karst Underwater Research
Nautical Archaeology Program
Nautical Archaeology Society
Naval Air Command Sub Aqua Club
Project AWARE
Reef Check
Reef Life Survey
Rubicon Foundation
Save Ontario Shipwrecks
SeaKeys
Sea Research Society
Society for Underwater Historical Research
Society for Underwater Technology
Underwater Archaeology Branch, Naval History &amp; Heritage Command
Submarine escapeand rescue
Escape trunk
International Submarine Escape and Rescue Liaison Office
McCann Rescue Chamber
Submarine Escape and Rescue system (Royal Swedish Navy)
Submarine escape training facility
Submarine Escape Training Facility (Australia)
Submarine rescue ship
Neutral buoyancyfacilities forAstronaut training
Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory
Neutral buoyancy pool
Neutral buoyancy simulation as a training aid
Neutral Buoyancy Simulator
Space Systems Laboratory
Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center
Other
Nautilus Productions
 Category
 Commons
Glossary
Indexes: dive sites
divers
diving
Outline
 Portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Diving_bell&amp;oldid=979853719#Deployment_of_a_modern_diving_bell"
		Categories: Diving support equipmentHidden categories: Articles containing Middle English (1100-1500)-language textCS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyCS1 German-language sources (de)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2017Articles containing German-language textCommons category link is on Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		CatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어ItalianoעבריתNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 23 September 2020, at 04:47 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
