	Sita Sings the Blues
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		2008 animated film by Nina Paley
Sita Sings the BluesPoster for Sita Sings the BluesDirected byNina PaleyProduced byNina PaleyWritten byNina PaleyStarringSanjiv JhaveriNina PaleyDeepti GuptaDebargo SanyalReena ShahPooja KumarAladdin UllahNarrated byAseem ChhabraBhavana NagulapallyManish AcharyaMusic byAnnette Hanshaw et al.Distributed byGKIDSRelease date
February 11, 2008 (2008-02-11) (Berlin)
Running time82 minutesCountryUnited StatesLanguageEnglishBudget$290,000[1]
Sita Sings the Blues is a 2008 American animated musical romantic comedy-drama film written, directed, produced and animated by American artist Nina Paley. It intersperses events from the Ramayana, light-hearted but knowledgeable discussion of historical background by a trio of Indian shadow puppets, musical interludes voiced with tracks by Annette Hanshaw and scenes from the artist's own life. The ancient mythological and modern biographical plot are parallel tales, sharing numerous themes.
Contents
1 Plot
1.1 The Ramayana
1.2 Contemporary parallel
2 Cast
3 Style and narrative
3.1 Episodes from the Ramayana
3.2 Narration and discourse on the Ramayana
3.3 Musical episodes from the Ramayana
3.4 Contemporary parallel
4 Production
4.1 Copyright problems
5 Distribution
6 Reception
6.1 Critical reaction
6.2 Controversy
6.3 Awards
6.4 Cultural impact
7 See also
8 References
9 External links
Plot[edit]
Play media  Sita Sings the Blues (full film)
The Ramayana[edit]
The film uses a pared-down adaptation of the legend that retains many of its finer details while adopting a perspective sympathetic towards Sita; in the director's words, the film is "a tale of truth, justice and a woman’s cry for equal treatment."[2]
The plot joins the legend at the exile of the prince Rama from the kingdom of Ayodhya, at the behest of king Dasharatha's favorite queen, Kaikeyi. Having earned the right to any single favor by saving the Dasharatha's life, Kaikeyi attempts to secure her own son's inheritance over the eldest and favorite, Rama, by ordering him banished from the court. Sita, Rama's wife, determines to accompany her beloved husband, although the woods are dangerous and overrun with demons and evil spirits.
The demon king Ravana, encouraged by his spiteful ogress sister, Shurpanakha, hears of Sita's beauty and determines to kidnap her. He sends a golden hind, Maricha, past their dwelling to distract Rama, who tries to impress Sita by hunting the hind into the woods. In his absence, Ravana abducts Sita and demands that she submit to him on pain of death. Sita remains staunchly devoted to Rama and refuses to entertain the idea; Ravana sets a deadline for the ultimatum and Sita waits faithfully for Rama to rescue her.
Aided by the monkey prince Hanuman, Rama eventually discovers Sita's location and brings the monkey army to assist in her rescue. Ravana is slain and Sita is restored to her husband, although he expresses serious doubts concerning her fidelity during her confinement. She submits to a trial by fire, a test of her purity; upon throwing herself into the flames, she is immediately rescued by the gods, who all proclaim her devotion and fidelity.
She accompanies Rama back to the palace and soon falls pregnant. Rama overhearing one of his subjects beating and ejecting an unfaithful consort (claiming he is no Rama to accept and forgive her unfaithfulness), he reluctantly orders his brother Lakshman to abandon Sita in the forest. In the company of ascetics owned by the Sage Valmiki, she gives birth to her twin sons, Lava and Kusha and raises them to love and praise their absent father.
Years later, Rama overhears their hymns of adoration to their father and locates their dwelling. Distressed and disappointed by Rama's actions during her reunion with Rama, Sita prays to the earth goddess, Bhumi-Devi, to swallow her as final proof of her purity and devotion, and the prayer is duly answered, despite the pleas of Rama and Lakshman.
Contemporary parallel[edit]
In an episode taken from the director's own life,[2] animator Nina Paley starts the film living happily in a San Francisco apartment with her husband and cat. Her husband then accepts the offer of a six-month contract working in Trivandrum, India, and moves there alone to take up the position. After a month of no contact, he calls to inform his wife that the contract has been extended another year.
Bewildered by his callous indifference to their separation, Nina sublets their apartment, leaves their beloved cat behind, and joins her husband in India. Upon her arrival, he appears deeply unenthusiastic to be reunited and demonstrates neither affection nor sexual interest. A while later, Nina flies to a meeting in New York, where she receives a brief e-mail from her husband telling her that their relationship is over. Sad and alone, she stays in New York, finding comfort in a new cat and her study of the Ramayana.
Cast[edit]
Sanjiv Jhaveri as Dave, Dasharatha, Dhobi, and Valmiki
Nina Paley as Nina
Aseem Chhabra as Shadow Puppet 1
Bhavana Nagulapally as Shadow Puppet 2
Manish Acharya as Shadow Puppet 3
Deepti Gupta as Kaikeyi
Debargo Sanyal as Rama
Reena Shah as Sita (Speaking)
Annette Hanshaw as Sita (Singing)
Pooja Kumar as Shurpanakha
Aladdin Ullah as Maricha and Hanuman
Nitya Vidyasagar as Lava and Kusha
Style and narrative[edit]
The film uses several different styles of animation to separate and identify the parallel narratives.
  Ravana approaches Sita during her captivity.
Episodes from the Ramayana[edit]
Episodes with dialogue from the Ramayana are enacted using painted figures of the characters in profile, which strongly resemble the 18th-century Indian tradition of Rajput painting. The Rajput style of brush painting was principally enacted on manuscripts and commonly employed in the telling of epics such as the Ramayana. In the film, they serve as a more traditional style of dramatic narrative, although the dialogue is frequently ironic, inappropriately modern, or otherwise humorous.
The background in each scene is usually static and the poses of each character are kept minimal, with movement achieved by simply transporting the character across the screen in its set position. Speech is enacted by alternating the set pose of the face with a slightly liquified version where the jaw is lower.
  The shadow puppet narrators discuss Rama's attitude towards Sita after her trial by fire.
Narration and discourse on the Ramayana[edit]
Aseem Chhabra, Bhavana Nagulapally, and Manish Acharya provided the voices for three silhouettes, traditional Indian shadow puppets. They link episodes of the Ramayana with a lively, unscripted discussion of their personal impressions and knowledge of the epic.[3] They provide context and commentary for the story, which has innumerable incarnations and regional variations.[4]
The voices are clearly contemporary and somewhat irreverent, unlike their visualisations, which further establishes the theme of contrast between "ancient tragedy and modern comedy";[5] Chhaya Natak shadow theatre, for example, was commonly used in retellings of the Ramayana.[6]
During these sections, the ideas and contradictions raised over the course of the puppets' discussions are visualized in animated photographic compositions in the background.
  Sita mourns her privation from her husband and his callous behaviour towards her.
Musical episodes from the Ramayana[edit]
Episodes set to certain songs performed by jazz singer Annette Hanshaw are visualized, with Sita as the singing performer, using the strikingly modern technique of vector graphic animation.
The slick, bold style – driven by digital animation software – is at odds with the somewhat rustic quality of the old musical recordings but allows close synchronization with the vocals. The smooth, repetitive, side-scrolling movement affects assists in suspending the musical episode from the more consistent narrative plot.
  On her arrival in India, Nina's husband seems distant.
Contemporary parallel[edit]
The modern, more personal element to the contemporary part of the story is narrated using the rough, energetic Squigglevision technique of traditional animation. It conveys the kind of restlessness inherent in the story and achieves a more light-hearted, universal tone with its simple, highly stylized renderings of character and environments.
Production[edit]
The production was largely completed by Nina Paley, with support from Jake Friedman in the "Battle of Lanka" scene,[7] primarily using 2D computer graphics and Flash Animation.
In addition to the central numbers recorded by Hanshaw, music was provided by Rohan, Rudresh Mahanthappa, Nik Phelps, Todd Michaelsen, and Reena Shah of the duo My Pet Dragon and by Pierre-Jean Duffour, composer and musician for the band Masaladosa. Reena Shah contributed the voice of the Sita character, in addition to choreographing and performing the dance sequences rotoscoped by Paley for the animation.
Paley estimated her total hours of work on the film to 9,360 and calculated she needed 6,240 people to see the 1.5-hour long film to make an "attention profit".[8]
Copyright problems[edit]
The film uses a number of 1920s Annette Hanshaw recordings. Although the filmmaker initially made sure these recordings were not covered by US copyright law,[9] a number of other copyright issues surfaced, including state laws prior to US federal copyright law on recordings, rights to the compositions and the right to synchronize the recordings with images. These recordings were protected by state commerce and business laws passed at the time in the absence of applicable federal laws and were never truly "public domain".[10]
Without a distributor, Nina Paley was unable to pay the approximately $220,000 that the copyright holders originally demanded. Eventually, a fee of $50,000 was negotiated. Paley took out a loan to license the music in early 2009.[1]
In July 2011, Nina Paley made a protest video regarding the film's deletion from YouTube in Germany due to what she regards as fraudulent take-down notice under the aegis of GEMA, Germany's major music and performance rights organization,[11] but which may be an instance of a larger on-going conflict regarding copyright and royalties between YouTube and GEMA.[12][13]
On January 18, 2013, Paley announced that she has changed the Creative Commons license for the film from "CC-BY-SA" (the Creative Commons Attribution-Share-alike 3.0 Unported license) to "CC-0" (public domain); she made the ownership rights change in response to the continual red tape of rights procurement, even under the share-alike license.[14][15]
Distribution[edit]
Due to terms of the music license, one limited DVD pressing of 4,999 copies was printed.[16] The film was released for free download starting in early March, 2009 "at all resolutions, including broadcast-quality, HD and film-quality image sequences", at the time licensed under "CC-BY-SA".[17] The freely downloaded files counted as "promotional copies" and were exempt from payments to the copyright holders of the songs.[1]
The full film can also be viewed in low-resolution streaming video on the web site for WNET, a PBS member station in New York City. WNET broadcast the film on March 7, 2009.
Paley plans to make money through voluntary payments, ancillary products, sponsorships, the aforementioned limited DVD sales, and possibly other methods.[1]
A cornerstone of the distribution model is the "creator-endorsed" logo, developed by Paley in cooperation with QuestionCopyright.org. Although anyone is free to distribute the film, distributors who do so while giving a part of the profits to the artist can get the artist's endorsement and use the "creator-endorsed" logo on their promotional materials.[18][19] Exclusive right to distribute 35mm and HDCam prints of the film is split between GKIDS[20] for all theaters East of the Mississippi River, and Shadow Distribution[21] for all theaters west of the Mississippi River.
The film can also be rented via DVD on Netflix as of March 17, 2010.[22] When asked by a media provider on behalf of Netflix in April 2010 if she would also offer the film via the company's on-demand streaming service in exchange for a limited amount of money, Paley requested that the film be streamed either DRM-free or with an addendum telling viewers where the film was available for download. When the internet television service refused to meet these conditions due to a "No Bumpers" policy, Paley refused to accept their offer, citing her desire to uphold her principled opposition to DRM.[23]
Paley has qualified this distribution strategy as a financial success, citing that it earned $132,000 from March 2009 to March 2010.[24]
Reception[edit]
Critical reaction[edit]
Since its release, Sita Sings the Blues has attracted limited but consistent acclaim from critics. Rotten Tomatoes reports that 100% of critics have given the film a positive review, based on 32 reviews, with an 8.27/10 review average. The site's consensus reads: "A tour de force for filmmaker Nina Paley, Sita Sings the Blues gives the Ramayana its animated due with a visually vibrant, dazzlingly imaginative triumph".[25] The film also holds a score of 94 on the review aggregator website Metacritic based on 11 reviews, indicating "Universal acclaim".[26]
Film critic Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times enthused, "I am enchanted. I am swept away. I am smiling from one end of the film to the other. It is astonishingly original. It brings together four entirely separate elements and combines them into a great whimsical chord... To get any film made is a miracle. To conceive of a film like this is a greater miracle."[27]
The New York Times also praised the film's ingenuity, commenting that "[it] evokes painting, collage, underground comic books, Mumbai musicals and 'Yellow Submarine' (for starters)," and praised Paley for her use of 2D animation:  "A Pixar or DreamWorks extravaganza typically concludes with a phone book’s worth of technical credits. Ms. Paley did everything in “Sita” — an amazingly eclectic, 82-minute tour de force — by herself."[28]
Although The Hollywood Reporter declared the film to be "a rather rarified effort that will probably appeal more to adults than to children," it described it as "charming" and commented that, "Arriving amidst a tidal wave of overblown and frequently charmless big studio efforts, "Sita Sings the Blues" is a welcome reminder that when it comes to animation bigger isn't necessarily better."[29]
The blog Sepia Mutiny reviewed the film noting that it has "lovely, highly stylized characters" and that Paley stayed "reasonably faithful" to the original story.[30]
Controversy[edit]
The film has drawn controversy from a number of sides.  In April 2009, the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti started a petition calling for a complete ban on the movie and initiation of legal action against all those who have been involved in its production and marketing, believing its portrayal of the Ramayana to be offensive, with some members going so far as to call it "a derogatory act against the entire Hindu community."[31]
When the San Jose Museum of Art screened the film, a protestor said: "I'm very angry about this film and feel very humiliated by the portrayal of Lord Ram in this very perverted way...negative portrayals of Hinduism cause discrimination and religious intolerance."[32]  Another protestor at the same event suggested: "Trying to promote India's rich culture in such a way is appalling."[32]
Nina Paley expressed surprise at the adverse reaction, saying "I thought it might be a bit controversial, but I wasn’t fully aware of how art and artists are major targets of some right-wing nationalist groups in India. I always imagine an audience of smart, compassionate people I’d enjoy spending time with."[33]  However, in an interview with India-West, she did acknowledge that Lord Ram is not depicted well in the film.  She added to the source: "No one has to like it."
Awards[edit]
Sita Sings the Blues has won a number of awards.[34]
Berlinale (Berlin International Film Festival), Feb. 2008, Crystal Bear - Special Mention, Gen-14+, Germany
Annecy, June 2008, Cristal grand prix for best feature film, France
Avignon, June 2008, Prix Tournage for Best American Feature Film, France
Athens International Film Festival, Sept. 2008, Best Script Award, Greece
Ottawa International Animation Festival, Sept. 2008, Honorable Mention for Best Animated Feature, Canada
Montreal's Festival du nouveau cinéma, Oct. 2008, Grand Prix Z Télé, Grand Prize chosen by the public, Canada
Expotoons, Oct. 2008, "First Mention" (runner-up), Feature Films, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Leeds International Film Festival, Nov. 2008, Golden Owl Competition - Special Mention, UK
Asheville Film Festival, Nov. 2008, Runner-up, Best Feature, Fiction, NC, US
Starz Denver Film Festival, Nov 2008, Fox 31 Emerging Filmmaker Award, CO, US
Gotham Independent Film Awards, Dec 2008, Best Film Not Playing at a Theater Near You, NYC, NY, US
Les Nuits Magiques, Dec 2008, Audience Award for Best Feature Film, Begles, France
Santa Fe Film Festival, Dec 2008, Best Animation, NM, US
Boulder International Film Festival, Feb 2009, Best Animated Film, CO, US
Film Independent's Spirit Awards, Feb 2009, Nominee, Acura Someone to Watch Award, Los Angeles, CA, US
Fargo Film Festival, March 2009, Ruth Landfield Award and Honorable Mention, Best Animation, ND, US
Festival Monstra, March 2009 Jury’s Special Prize, Lisbon, Portugal
Cairo International Film Festival for Children, March 2009, Jury's Special Mention, Cairo, Egypt
Tiburon International Film Festival, March 2009, Best Animation, Tiburon, CA, US
Big Cartoon Festival, March 2009, Grand Prix Sirin, Krasnoyarsk, Russia
Animabasaui5, March 2009, Jury Special Award, Bilbao, Spain
Akron Film Festival, April 2009, Best Feature Film, Akron, OH, US
Philadelphia CineFest, April 2009, Archie Award for Best First Time Director, Philadelphia, PA, US
Salem Film Festival, April 2009, Grand Jury Award, Salem, OR, US
Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles, April 2009, Jury Award for Best Narrative Feature, Los Angeles CA, US
Talking Pictures Festival, May 2009, Best Animated Film, Evanston, IL, US
Connecticut Film Festival, June 2009, Best Animated Film[dead link], Danbury, CT, US
Festival Internacional de Cine DerHumALC, June 2009, Signis Award, Best Film of the Official Competition, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Indianapolis International Film Festival, July 2009, American Spectrum, Best Feature, Indianapolis, IN, US
Cultural impact[edit]
In April 2009, the film inspired a Bangkok high fashion line designed by Roj Singhakul, titled "Sita Sings the Blues".[35]
See also[edit]
Versions of Ramayana
Seder-Masochism (2018), Paley's second animated feature film
References[edit]
^ a b c d Largely for music, copyright clearance and distribution. Paley, Nina. Sita’s Distribution Plan. December 28, 2008. Accessed on: January 31, 2009.
^ a b Director Nina Paley's long synopsis from the press section at SitaSingstheBlues.com, retrieved May 4, 2008
^ Silhouette animation was also employed in a similar but analogue fashion in the animation Princes et princesses by Michel Ocelot.
^ Analysis of different variations of the Ramayana Archived 2007-03-10 at the Wayback Machine from the book Ramayana in the Arts of Asia by Garrett Kam, published by Asia Book, Bangkok in 2000, page retrieved May 4, 2008.
^ Front page of the official website, SitaSingstheBlues.com
^ PuppetIndia Archived 2007-09-29 at the Wayback Machine feature on shadow puppetry, retrieved May 4, 2008.
^ 
Friedman, Jake. "Animations for Film &amp; TV". JakeFriedman.net. Archived from the original on March 8, 2012. Retrieved October 14, 2008..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Nina Paley. "Attention Economics", ninapaley.com, 23 February 2011. Retrieved 13 February 2016.
^ "FAQ page of official film site". Retrieved March 29, 2009.
^ "Public domain sound recordings".
^ Video on YouTube
^ Techdirt.com
^ Billboard
^ Nina Paley: "Ahimsa: Sita Sings the Blues now CC-0 “Public Domain”", January 18, 2013.
^ Stierch, Sarah. "Sita's free: Landmark copyleft animated film is now licensed CC0". OpenGLAM. Open Knowledge Foundation. Retrieved January 19, 2013.
^ SStB Store talking about limited DVDs Archived 2011-08-22 at the Wayback Machine
^ From the movie's website.
^ MacQuarrie, David. Sita sings the copyright blues. CBC. March 17, 2009.
^ The Creator-Endorsed Mark. QuestionCopyright.org. March 3, 2009.
^ "Sita Sings the Blues". Retrieved October 26, 2009.
^ "Sita Sings the Blues". Archived from the original on December 15, 2010. Retrieved October 26, 2009.
^ Netflix.com
^ Blog.ninapaley.com
^ Rich Bailey (March 21, 2011). "Filmmaker Nina Paley, Freeing Copyright for Art and Profit". The Epoch Times. Retrieved April 3, 2011.
^ "Sita Sings the Blues reviews". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on October 30, 2014. Retrieved July 1, 2019.
^ "Sita Sings the Blues reviews". Metacritic. Retrieved July 1, 2019.
^ Ebert, Roger (December 23, 2008). "Having a wonderful time, wish you could hear". Chicago Sun-Times. Retrieved April 28, 2010.
^ Scott, A.O. (December 24, 2009). "Nina Paley's Epic Breakups: Good Women Done Wrong in India". New York Times. Retrieved April 28, 2010.
^ Scheck, Frank (December 29, 2009). "Sita Sings the Blues -- Film Review". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on February 22, 2015. Retrieved February 22, 2015.
^ ‘Sita Sings the Blues’ | Sepia Mutiny
^ Ekadashi, Chaitra Shuddha. Hindus, Strongly Protest against movie denigrating Devi Sita!. Hindu Janajagruti Samiti. April 5, 2009.
^ a b Hindu groups protest the screening of 'Sita Sings the Blues' - The Times of India
^ Kohn, Eric. A Filmmaker’s ‘Blues’ Prompts Traditionalists To See Red. The Forward. May 29, 2009.
^ Awards for Sita Sings the Blues IMDB
^ Wenin, Samila. Into the Blues[dead link]. Bangkok Post. April 4, 2009.
External links[edit]
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Sita Sings the Blues
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sita Sings the Blues.
Official website
Sita Sings the Blues is available for free download at the Internet Archive under CC-0
Sita Sings the Blues on IMDb
Sita Sings the Blues at Rotten Tomatoes
Sita Sings the Blues at Metacritic
vteFilms based on the Ramayana1910s
Lanka Dahan (1917)
1930s
Rama Paduka Pattabhishekam (1932)
Sita Kalyanam (1934)
Sathi Ahalya (1937)
1940s
Ram Rajya (1943)
Seeta Rama Jananam (1944)
Paduka Pattabhishekam (1945)
Ramayani (1945)
Rambaan (1948)
1950s
Ram Janma (1951)
Ramayan (1954)
Sampoorna Ramayanam (1958)
1960s
Seeta Rama Kalyanam (1960)
Sampoorna Ramayana (1961)
Lava Kusa (1963)
Veeranjaneya (1968)
1970s
Sampoorna Ramayanam (1971)
Hanuman Vijay (1974)
Mutyala Muggu (1975)
Sri Ramanjaneya Yuddham (1975)
Bajrangbali (1976)
Dasavatharam (1976)
Sita Kalyanam (1976)
Kanchana Sita (1977)
Seetha Rama Vanavasam (1977)
Sri Rama Pattabhishekam (1978)
1980s
Raavan (1984)
1990s
Ramayana: The Legend of Prince Rama (1992)
Ramayanam (1996)
Lav Kush (1997)
2000s
Hanuman (2005)
Return of Hanuman (2007)
Sita Sings the Blues (2008)
Dashavatar (2008)
2010s
Lava Kusa: The Warrior Twins (2010)
Raavan (2010)
Raavanan (2010)
Ramayana: The Epic (2011)
Sri Rama Rajyam (2011)
Yak: The Giant King (2012)
Shri Hanuman Chalisa (2013)
Hanuman: Da' Damdaar
Hanuman vs Mahiravana (2018)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sita_Sings_the_Blues&amp;oldid=981233913"
		Categories: 2008 filmsEnglish-language films2008 animated films2000s American animated filmsAmerican filmsAmerican computer-animated filmsAnimated musical filmsAnimated films based on RamayanaCreative Commons-licensed filmsRotoscoped filmsAmerican flash animated filmsAnnecy Cristal for a Feature Film winnersHinduism-related controversiesJukebox musical filmsHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2015Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from January 2020Template film date with 1 release dateArticles with dead external links from July 2020Commons category link from WikidataArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles containing video clips
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikisource
		Languages
		العربيةCatalàDanskEspañolFrançaisMagyarRomânăSvenska
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 October 2020, at 02:44 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
