	Council of Cardinal Advisers
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
The Council of Cardinals (C9), also known as the Council of Cardinal Advisers, is a group of cardinals of the Catholic Church appointed by Pope Francis to serve as his advisers. Announced on 13 April 2013, one month after his election, it was formally established on 28 September of the same year.[1][2] The council currently has six members, following the decision by Pope Francis to remove three of its members in late 2018.
Contents
1 Leadership and membership
2 Meetings
2.1 2014 meetings
2.2 2015 meetings
2.3 2016 meetings
2.4 2017 meetings
2.5 2018 meetings
2.6 2019 Meetings
2.7 2020 Meetings
3 References
Leadership and membership[edit]
The council currently comprises six cardinals, assisted by Marcello Semeraro, Bishop of Albano, who serves as its secretary, as well as Monsignor Marco Mellino as its adjunct secretary.[3][4]
 Óscar Andrés Rodríguez Maradiaga SDB, Archbishop of Tegucigalpa (coordinator)
 Giuseppe Bertello, President of the Pontifical Commission for the Vatican City State
 Oswald Gracias, Archbishop of Bombay
 Reinhard Marx, Archbishop of Munich and Freising
 Seán Patrick O'Malley OFMCap, Archbishop of Boston and President of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors
 Pietro Parolin, Cardinal Secretary of State
The council is coordinated by Cardinal Rodríguez Maradiaga.[5]
At the time of its formation, the council had eight members. Cardinal Parolin was not among the council's original membership, but attended the meetings regularly and, in July 2014, was confirmed by the Holy See Press Office as a ninth member of the council.[6]
On 12 December 2018, the Holy See Press Office announced that Pope Francis had written to cardinals Francisco Javier Errázuriz Ossa, George Pell and Laurent Monsengwo Pasinya at the end of October to thank them for their service on the council, ending their membership.[7] On 11 December 2018,[8] the day before the Vatican's announcement, Pell, the prefect of the Secretariat for the Economy and former Archbishop of Sydney, had been convicted of sexual abuse in an Australian criminal court,[9][10][11] a conviction quashed by a higher court in 2020.[12] Monsengwo Pasinya, the Archbishop emeritus of Kinshasa, had already retired from active pastoral ministry,[13] while Errázuriz Ossa, the Archbishop emeritus of Santiago de Chile, whose role in protecting priests accused as sexual abusers was being investigated by civil authorities, had resigned from the council on 14 November 2018.[14] Because the Council's work was nearing its end, the three members were not replaced.[7]
Meetings[edit]
See also: Roman Curia and Pastor Bonus
The council has a broad remit "to advise him in the government of the universal church and to study a plan for revising the Apostolic Constitution on the Roman Curia, Pastor Bonus." Said to have been inspired by "a suggestion that emerged during the General Congregations preceding the Conclave", as relayed in the move's formal notice.[15]
The council had its first meeting on 1–3 October. In a statement released after the close of the meeting, the intention of the cardinals is to emphasise the nature of the service on the part of the Curia and the universal and local church "in terms of subsidiarity, rather than the exercise of centralised power. The intended direction would be to put this into practice in the service of the Church in all her dimensions". Another important theme was the nature and functions of the Secretariat of State, which "should be the secretariat of the Pope; the word State should not give rise to doubt. This body serves the Pope in the governance of the universal Church". The Council will address the matter of relations between the heads of the dicasteries and the Pope, and co-ordination between the various bodies. "In this context, mention was made of the role of a 'Moderator Curiae' (Moderator of the Curia), and the functions of such a figure. The issue was touched upon but no decision has been made as to whether it will form part of the new constitution; however, it is in fact one of the hypotheses suggested by the Council".[16]
The council had its second meeting from 3–5 December, discussing the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, entering fully into their in-depth task, not limited to retouches or minor improvements. The revision of Pastor Bonus is substantial, to the extent that it may be considered as a new constitution for the Curia.[16]
2014 meetings[edit]
The third meeting was held from 17–19 February 2014, where matters regarding the economic and administrative sectors were considered, shortly before the consistory for the creation of new cardinals and the meeting of the Synod council.[17] In a press release it was noted that "Archbishop Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State and future cardinal, was and will continue to be present".[18]
For the morning of 17 February, the representatives of the Commission for Reference on the Organisation of the Economic-Administrative Structure of the Holy See (COSEA)[19] with three members of the commission were present, Josef F.X. Zahra, the secretary Msgr. Lucio Vallejo Balda and Joachim Messemer. The work carried out during the eight months since the creation of this body was presented with no decisions taken. On 18 February, the Commission for Reference on the Institute for Works of Religion (IOR) was heard. On 19 February the council continued without Pope Francis who held his usual general audience. The cardinals of the so-called "Council of Fifteen" instituted by John Paul II and responsible for the general consolidated financial statement of the Holy See and the Governorate of Vatican City State met with the council.
During the meeting from 28 to 30 April, Cardinal Parolinas participated regularly with the council. The council heard a report from the president of the Pontifical Commission for Reference on the Organisation of the Economic-Administrative Structures of the Holy See (COSEA), Joseph F. X. Zahra, in relation to some of the areas of activity within its remit. Following its review in previous meetings of the congregations of the Roman Curia, the council is now focusing on the Pontifical Councils, first in terms of general considerations, followed by an individual appraisal of each one. The council is expected to complete a first report of its considerations regarding the pontifical councils during this meeting.[20]
During their meetings from 1–4 July, Pope Francis was present and said that he would participate fully like the other members of the council. Cardinal Bertello presented matters relating to the Governorate, and Cardinal Parolin made a presentation relating to the Secretariat of State. The issue of the structure of the Institute for Works of Religion (IOR) was discussed in depth. The meetings, held in two sessions, were also attended by Cardinal Parolin and members of the Supervisory Commission of Cardinals present in Rome: Cardinals Santos Abril y Castelló, Thomas Collins and Jean-Louis Cardinal Tauran.[21] During these meetings the Pontifical Council for the Laity and the Pontifical Council for the Family were studied in particular depth, especially in terms of the contributions and roles that should be assumed by laypeople, married couples and women. Decisions were not made, but more detailed proposals were offered for subsequent insertion into the overall framework of the new configuration of the Curia. Other themes included the nunciatures and the procedures for the appointment of bishops. The Vatican described the overall tone of the meetings as "free, frank and friendly".[22]
During the course of the meetings from 15–17 September the cardinals had previously worked by examining all the Congregations and Pontifical Councils, but they had also assigned a significant amount of time to hearing the referring Commissions on economic and organisational questions (COSEA and CRIOR) and on matters pertaining to the economic Dicasteries. Work in this area is considered complete.[23] In this meeting the Council resumed work on the other Dicasteries. In the meantime, several contributions had been prepared by various members of the Council on the different issues within their sphere of competence, which were proposed or presented to the Council. During these days, the Council focused on two principal difficult issues. The first includes the themes of the laity and the family. It is a very broad area, encompassing many issues, including for instance the role of women in society and in the Church, youth, childhood, or matters related to lay associations and movements, and so on. The second comprises themes linked to justice and peace, charity, migrants and refugees, health, and the protection of life and ecology, especially human ecology. The Council of Cardinals, as we are aware, does not make decisions, but formulates proposals for the Pope, who certainly intends to consult in further depth. In order to speed up this new phase in the work of the Council, the coordinator, Cardinal Óscar Andrés Rodríguez Maradiaga, S.D.B., has prepared an overall plan to facilitate the organisation of the contributions and reflections already offered during the previous meetings and the integration of new ones.[23]
During the seventh meeting held from 9–11 December. The meetings focused on three themes: the reform of the Curia, the composition of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors and the reorganisation of the economic organs of the Holy See. As usual, Pope Francis participated in all meetings aside from the Wednesday morning session, due to his weekly general audience. With regard to reform of the Roman Curia, the Cardinals also addressed the specific question of the reorganisation of the Pontifical Councils that work in relation to the laity, the family, justice, peace and charity. No formal decisions were taken. The Commission for the Protection of Minors, which has eight members and a secretary, is to be enlarged with representatives from various ecclesial and cultural contexts around the world, reaching a total of around eighteen members. The candidates had been selected and their availability to participate was in the process of being verified. From 6 to 8 February 2015 the Commission plans to hold its plenary session and it is expected that all members will be confirmed by that date.[24] Professor Joseph Zahra, the lay deputy coordinator of the Council for the Economy, reported to the Cardinals on the reorganisation of the economic dicasteries.[24]
2015 meetings[edit]
The eighth meeting was held from 9 to 11 February 2015.
During the ninth meeting from 13 to 15 April the Council dedicated the majority its work regarding reform of the Roman Curia to two aspects: reflections on the methodologies to be followed for work during 2015 and 2016 in order to be able to effectively accomplish the task of preparing the new Constitution, and a rereading of the interventions by the Cardinals in relation to reform of the Curia made during the recent Consistory (there were over sixty interventions on this theme with useful indications and cues, both for the prologue of the constitution and for specific aspects of reform). The orientation towards the constitution of two dicasteries – one competent in fields of charity, justice and peace, the other regarding the laity, families and life – would appear to be confirmed. The Council also focused on the issue of the reorganisation of Vatican media, following the submission of the final report of the Commission presided over by Lord Patten. It is expected that the Pope will constitute a Commission to consider how the recommendations of the report can be put into practice. This body will also include members of the Patten Commission, to ensure continuity. Cardinal O'Malley, president of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors, under the auspices of the same Commission, has proposed that the Pope and the Council consider the theme of "Accountability" with regard to the protection of minors, in order to establish appropriate procedures and methods for evaluating and judging cases of "abuse of office" in this area, especially on the part of persons holding responsibility within the Church.[25]
Acting on their advice, Pope Francis in April 2015 established a Commission for the Reform of the Vatican's Communications Media.[26]
At their tenth meeting from 8–10 June at which Cardinal Mosengwo Pasinya was unable to attend, the first day was dedicated largely to the examination of the draft Preamble of the new Constitution. With regard to financial and economic reform, Cardinal Pell, prefect of the Secretariat for the Economy, presented a report with updated information on the financial reforms. He mentioned the appointment of the new Auditor General, the approval of the new Statute for Pension Funds and the completion of the list of bodies subject to the control and supervision of the Council for the Economy, in accordance with its Statutes. He also referred to three new initiatives of the Council for the Economy, constituting three working groups: one for the analysis of income and investments; one for human resources management, and a third for the study of the existing IT systems, their compatibility and their efficiency. He concluded by reporting on the progress of the various current activities of the Secretariat for the Economy.
In the afternoon session of 8 June, the Council received a report from Cardinal O'Malley, with a proposal for the Pope regarding allegations of the abuse of office by a bishop connected to the abuse of minors, originally prepared by the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors. Cardinal O'Malley's report also included a proposal regarding allegations of sexual abuse of minors and vulnerable adults by clergy. For each proposal, the report indicated the general terms which define it, issues relating to procedure and to the competent Tribunal, as well as the advantages of the proposal compared with other possible solutions. The five specific proposals made to the Pope are firstly, because the competence to receive and investigate complaints of the episcopal abuse of office belongs to the Congregations for Bishops, Evangelisation of Peoples, or Oriental Churches, there is the duty to report all complaints to the appropriate Congregation; the Pope mandate the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith to judge bishops with regard to crimes of the abuse of office when connected to the abuse of minors; the Pope authorise the establishment of a new Judicial Section in the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and appointment of stable personnel to undertake service in the Tribunal. The implementation of this decision would follow consultation with the prefect for the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith; the Pope appoint a secretary to assist the prefect with the Tribunal. The secretary will be responsible for the new Judicial Section and the personnel of the section will also be available to the prefect for penal processes regarding the abuse of minors and vulnerable adults by clergy. This appointment will also follow the consultation with the prefect of the Congregation; the Pope establish a five-year period for further development of these proposals and for completing a formal evaluation of their effectiveness.
The Council agreed unanimously on these proposals and resolved that they be submitted to the Pope, who approved the proposals and authorised the provision of sufficient resources for this purpose. In the morning of 9 June the Council of Cardinals heard a report given by Msgr. Dario Vigano, director of the Vatican Television Centre and president of the Commission for Vatican communications instituted by Pope Francis on 23 April 2015 (made public on 30 April), and expressed its unanimous approval of the feasibility study conducted by the same Commission. Starting from the analyses and reports of McKinsey and the previous commissions (COSEA and the Vatican Media Commission chaired by Lord Patten), the current Commission presented a plan for reform to be implemented over a four-year period, ensuring the protection of staff and a gradual integration of institutions. The constitution of the dicastery will be drafted, and the necessary appointments made during the coming months to enable the process to be initiated. The Commission is currently continuing its work, which has yet to be completed. On 10 June, the Council heard a communique from Fr. Michael Czerny of the Pontifical Council "Justice and Peace" regarding the Pope's new encyclical and the preparation for its publication.[27]
The meeting that took place from 14–16 September discussed "The proposal for a new Congregation, provisionally entitled "Laity, Family and Life", was again taken into consideration", said Fr. Lombardi. "In this regard Dionigi Cardinal Tettamanzi, designated by the Pope in recent months to prepare a study on the feasibility of the project, was heard. At the end of their reflections the Council presented to the Pope a proposal orientated towards the implementation of the project. Consideration of the proposal for a new Congregation dedicated to "Charity, Justice and Peace" was resumed and further reflections were made without yet reaching, however, a conclusive proposal by the Council.[28][29]
The meetings discussed the appointment of new bishops, or more specifically on the qualities and requisites for candidates in view of the needs of today's world, and on the related issue of information gathering. Naturally the theme will need to be explored further and developed in collaboration with the competent Dicasteries concerned. The Prefect of the Secretariat for Communications reported to the Council on the first steps taken so far and in particular on the appointment of a group to draw up the Statutes for the new Dicastery. The working group has been constituted and has already commenced activity. The regulations will subsequently be drafted and issued. The theme proposed during the last session of the Council regarding issues linked to the abuse of minors was again taken into consideration. The matter of how to implement proposals was explored in further depth, especially with regard to the possibility of accelerating the resolution of the many cases still pending. Cardinal Rodríguez Maradiaga was absent for health reasons.[28]
During the meeting on 10 to 12 December 2015 the Pope developed extensively the theme of "collegiality", but also pointed out "the need to proceed with a healthy 'decentralization'."  The Council returned to work on two new departments, which had previously been discussed on numerous occasions. The Department dedicated to "Laity and family life" – the establishment of which Pope Francis announced during the Synod (22 October) - was the subject of a detailed proposal by the Council to the Pope. The Department dedicated to "Justice, Peace and Migration" was subject to further considerations, in anticipation of creating the final proposal to be given to the Pope. The Council heard two reports on the reform of the economic structures of the Vatican, which were given by Cardinal Marx, Co-ordinator of the Council of Economy, and Cardinal George Pell, prefect for the Secretariat of Economy. The two Cardinals reported on the activities and achievements of the two institutions. In the course of his presentation, Cardinal Marx discussed the choice of an external auditor for the consolidated financial statements of the Vatican, PricewaterhouseCoopers. Cardinal Pell gave information about the establishment of a working group to reflect on the future of the economic issues of the Holy See and the Vatican City State, including its present state, and the control of expenditure and revenue.[30]
2016 meetings[edit]
The Council with Pope Francis for a day and a half, Monday 8 February, morning and afternoon, and Tuesday 9 in the morning. Cardinal Gracias, was absent for health reasons. His absence was expected since the month of December, as he was expected to undergo a previously scheduled surgical operation. As already expected at the end of the previous meeting, the first session consisted of a close examination of the Pope's discourse on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Synod of Bishops (17 October). This discourse, which develops extensively the theme of "synodality", noting at the same time "the need to promote a sound decentralisation", constitutes an important point of reference for the work of reforming the Curia. This was followed by a "final" reading of the proposals of the Council regarding the two new Dicasteries, mentioned previously: "Laity, family and life", and "Justice, peace, migration". The proposals were finalised and submitted to the Pope for his decisions. Cardinal O'Malley, reported on the activities of the Commission for the Protection of Minors. The legal and disciplinary issues that fall under the jurisdiction of other Dicasteries of the Curia will need to be examined in further detail. Cardinal Pell, reported on the status and implementation of reforms in the economic field. The cardinals received documentation on the so-called "vademecum" prepared by the Tribunal of the Roman Rota for the implementation of reform on canonical procedures for the declaration of nullity of marriage.[31]
Meetings were held between 11–13 April, with the absence of Cardinal Gracias, for health reasons. Apart from the Wednesday morning session, which took place during the customary General Audience, Pope Francis himself participated in all of the meetings of the Council.
In a press briefing on the meetings, Father Federico Lombardi, SJ, the Director of the Holy See Press Office, said Cardinals’ discussion focused largely on final considerations concerning the various Dicasteries of the Roman Curia, in view of a new Apostolic Constitution. In particular, the Cardinals re-read, and entrusted to the Pope, several texts relating to the proposal to create to new Dicasteries, dedicated to "Laity, Family, and Life" and to "Justice, Peace, and Migration." Father Lombardi said the Cardinals also took up several other topics in particular, the Council considered criteria for gathering information for the nomination of new bishops, in light of their identity and pastoral mission. They also discussed the significance and role of Nuncios. Additionally, the Council heard from two of their own members. Cardinal George Pell updated his colleagues on the work of the Secretariat for the Economy, while Cardinal Sean O'Malley discussed the activities of the Pontifical Council for the Protection of Minors. The final day of the Council's work, Father Lombardi said, was dedicated to organizing the results of the foregoing discussion, in order to craft a comprehensive proposal from the Council to the Pope, in view of a new Constitution for the Roman Curia.[32]
The Council met from 6–8 June, a large part of the consultations was dedicated to discussing the reforms regarding the Secretariat of State, the Congregations for Catholic Education, for Oriental Churches, for the Clergy and for Bishops, as well as the Pontifical Councils for Culture, for Christian Unity and for Interreligious Dialogue. The results of previous consultations regarding the Congregations for the Doctrine of the Faith, for Worship and the Sacraments, for the Causes of Saints and for Consecrated Life, as well as the new Charity, Justice and Peace office, have been handed over to Pope Francis for his deliberations. Fr Lombardi said that the reforms were focused on the criteria of simplifying and harmonizing the work of the different offices, as well as exploring ways of decentralizing tasks to the different bishops conferences. Finally he noted that Cardinal Marx and Cardinal Pell discussed questions relating to the Council and the Secretariat for the Economy, while Mgr Dario Vigano reported on the continuing reform of the Vatican media offices, especially the process of integrating Vatican Radio and the Vatican Television Centre which is taking place this year.
Meetings of the Council were scheduled for 12–14 September and 12–14 December 2016.
2017 meetings[edit]
From 13–15 February the Council of Cardinals met with the Pope during three days. All the members of the Council were present.
Pope Francis was absent during the second part of the session on Monday morning because of the "ad Limina Apostolorum" of the bishops of Costa Rica; and during the morning session of Wednesday 15 February because of the General Audience. He will be present to the session number 105 planned for this evening.
On 13 February, after the first consultation, the Cardinals, through the Press Office of the Holy See, released the following declaration:
"The Council of Cardinals initiated today its 18th working session.
The working sessions took place from 9:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. and were dedicated to further consideration of the different Dicasteries of the Curia: particularly, have continued the discussions about the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples (Propaganda Fide); the Congregation for the Oriental Churches; and the Pontifical Council for the Interreligious Dialogue.
The Cardinals began to examine the "Diaconate of Justice", and a considerable time was dedicated to the Tribunals: Apostolic Penitentiary, Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura and Tribunal of the Roman Rota. The Council has also studied, during these day, the process for the selection of candidates to the Episcopate.
Cardinal George Pell spoke about the work of the Secretariat for the Economy, entrusted to him, for the full implementation of the economic reform requested by the Pope, with particular attention to the activities of personnel training and human resources. The Prefect of the Secretariat for Communications, Dario Edoardo Viganò, presented the current state of the reform of the communications of the Holy See, after the unification of the Vatican Radio and the Vatican Television Center in the Dicastery entrusted to him. Working sessions were held with the Secretariat of State, the Secretariat for the Economy, Apsa and the Office of Labour to accompany this new phase of the reform. In addition, the plan to restructure the radio frequency and the new policy for the world of social networks, was presented. Finally, the group reflected on the project to start the reform of the Vatican Publishing House.[33]
The nineteenth meeting of the Council met with the Pope for three days: Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, 24–26 April. The working sessions took place in the mornings from 9-12:30 and in the afternoons from 16:30-19:00. The sessions were dedicated to further considerations on the various dicasteries of the Curia; in particular, there were continued discussions concerning the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples, and the Pontifical Council for the Promotion of the New Evangelisation. The Cardinals also considered texts to propose to the Pope regarding the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue; the Pontifical Council for Legislative Texts; and three tribunals: the Apostolic Penitentiary, the Apostolic Signatura, and the Roman Rota. During the meetings, the Council also studied the selection and formation of the personnel in the service of the Holy See, both clerics and members of the lay faithful. Officials and superiors from the Secretariat of State, from the Council for the Economy, and from the Labour Office of the Apostolic See took part in the discussions. Another important theme treated by the Council was the relationship between the Episcopal Conferences and the Roman Curia. Cardinal Pell gave an update on the work of the Secretariat for the Economy, with special attention to the review of the budget for the current year. Cardinal O’Malley updated the Council on the work of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of minors, focussing especially on the programme of global education, the last plenary assembly, and the visits to various dicasteries.[34]
The Council of Cardinals met with the Pope for three days: Monday 12, Tuesday 13 and Wednesday 14 June. All members of the Council were present apart from Cardinal O’Malley. The sessions were dedicated to further consideration of the ways in which the Roman Curia can better serve the local Churches. For example, a larger consultation board made up also of members from consecrated life and the laity, for candidates proposed for appointment as bishop. Among other proposals, the possibility of transferring some functions from the Roman Dicasteries to the local bishops or episcopal councils, in a spirit of healthy decentralisation. For example, the transfer of the Dicastery for the Clergy to the Episcopal Conference for examination and authorisation for: the priestly ordination of an unmarried permanent deacon; the passage to new marriage for a widowed permanent deacon; the request for priestly ordination by a widowed permanent deacon. The Council gave further consideration to various Dicasteries of the Curia, in particular the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples. The Council studied and reread texts proposed for submission to the Pope regarding the Dicastery for Interreligious Dialogue; the Dicastery for the Oriental Churches; the Dicastery for Legislative Texts; and the three tribunals. Cardinal Pell provided an update on the work of the Secretariat for the Economy, of which he is the prefect. Particular attention was paid to the steps ahead made in the process of planning of economic resources and in monitoring financial plans for the first trimester of 2017 which have substantially confirmed, with few exceptions, the budget data. Shortly the budget process will begin for 2018, and the monitoring for the second trimester of 2017. The prefect of the Secretariat for Communications, Msgr. Dario Edoardo Viganò, presented a report on the state of the reform of the communication system of the Holy See; he illustrated the economic and management progress of the SPC, demonstrating positive results. He then explained the projects in the realization phase of the new communication system, in accordance with the Holy Father's recent address on the occasion of the Dicastery's first Plenary.[35]
The 21st meeting took place form 11–13 September. The aim of this 21st session of the C9 was to reflect on the ongoing reforms of the Curia. Pope Francis joined the group of his closest advisors for the Tuesday morning and afternoon sessions having returned from Colombia.
Cardinal Pell and Cardinal Monsengwo Pasinya, were unable to attend this week's meeting. A main focus for discussion at this encounter was how the Curia can be an instrument of evangelization at the service of the pope and the local Churches. In particular the cardinals talked about the need for decentralisation, the role of the nunciatures, the selection of personnel, especially the need for a less clerical and more international staff, with an increase in the number of women and young people. The cardinals also discussed Pope Francis’ recent motu proprio ‘Magnum Principium’, reflecting on how it may affect the work of the Congregation for Divine Worship, and they reviewed the statutes of the office for Laity, Family and Life.
Three other prelates gave presentations about the work of their offices: Archbishop Salvatore Fisichella spoke about his Council for New Evangelisation, Cardinal O’Malley updated the cardinals on the work of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors, and at the final session, Cardinal Filoni spoke to the cardinals about the work of his 'Propaganda Fide' Congregation.[36]
The next meeting of the C9 is scheduled to take place in the Vatican from 11 to 13 December.
2018 meetings[edit]
The Council met from 11–13 June. Their work largely focused on finalizing the draft proposals for the new Apostolic Constitution of the Roman Curia, whose provisional title is Praedicate Evangelium. It said the C-9 group has prepared the first text of proposals ready to deliver to Pope Francis for him to read and offer any feedback he views as useful or necessary.[37] This Apostolic Constitution is intended to revise Pastor Bonus.[38][39]
The Council again meet from 10–12 September to discuss reform of the Roman Curia.[40] The meeting will also involve discussion about how to provide "necessary clarification" concerning a letter confirming Vatican knowledge of reports of sex abuse against former prominent Cardinal Theodore McCarrick as early as November 2000.[41]  Pope Francis presided over the meeting.[40]
The majority of the Council's meetings were dedicated to the final adjustments to the draft of the new Apostolic Constitution. The Council has already submitted to the Holy Father the provisional text which will however undergo stylistic revision and a canonistic review.[42]
The meeting resulting in a February 2019 abuse summit involving Catholic Bishops.[43]
On October 25, 2018, Pope Francis appointed Rev. Msgr. Marco Mellino, who serves as vicar general of the diocese of Alba, to serve as Adjunct Secretary to the Council of Cardinals and that Mellino was now tasked with assisting the Pope in drawing up the new Apostolic Constitution which revises Pastor Bonus.[3][4]
The next meeting of the Council of Cardinals took place on 10–12 December 2018. During the meeting five members of the Council meet to discuss how to contain growing costs to the Vatican budget.[44] The February 2019 Bishops summit on sex abuse was also discussed as well.[45] They also agreed to focus on financing the Dicastery for Communication.[44] Cardinal Parolin, the only current member of the Council with a high ranking position in the Roman Curia, did not attend due to obligations in Morocco which involved the signing of the Global Compact for Migration.[44]
The next meeting of the Council of Cardinals would also coincide with the Bishops sex abuse summit,[45] which took place on 21–24 February 2019.[46]
2019 Meetings[edit]
In late April 2019, a final draft of a new apostolic constitution on the Roman Curia, developed in consultation with the Council and titled Praedicate Evangelium (“Preach the Gospel”), was submitted to national bishops’ conferences and a variety of other bodies. With the conclusion of the Council's work on that reform, Maradiaga said the Council would next consider updates to canon law, the role of women, and financial management.[47]
Between 25 and 27 June 2019, the Council held another meeting, where they further reviewed the new apostolic constitution, which has yet to go into effect, and mainly focused on how to enforce the new apostolic constitution as well.[48][49] The Council agreed to focus on reforming the Catholic mission rather than Catholic doctrine.[49]
The Council met from 17-19 September with Cardinals Parolin, Rodríguez Maradiaga, S.D.B., Marx, O’Malley, O.F.M. Cap., Bertello and Gracias present. Also present were the secretary of the Council, Bishop Marcello Semeraro, and the adjunct secretary, Bishop Marco Mellino. Pope Francis also participated in the meetings as permitted by commitments. The activity focused on the re-reading and modification of the draft of the new Apostolic Constitution on the basis of the contributions from the Episcopal Conferences, observations of the dicasteries and the suggestions made by the bodies concerned. This first reading, which has come to an end, was a phase of listening and reflection responding to the Holy Father's indications with regard to communion and synodality.[50]
The next meeting took place on 2, 3 and 4 December 2019. The Cardinals discussed the draft of the new Apostolic Constitution, focusing on the relationship between the Roman Curia and the episcopal conferences; and on the presence of the lay faithful in decision making roles in the Church. Cardinal Czerny, S.J., delivered a report on the Synod for the Amazon. Cardinal Marx spoke about the “Synodal Path” being undertaken by the Church in Germany.[51]
2020 Meetings[edit]
The Council met from 17-19 February. This 33rd meeting re-read the new apostolic constitution that will replace Pastor Bonus. The meeting also considered amendments to the draft. Cardinals Parolin, Rodríguez Maradiaga, Marx, O'Malley, Bertello, and Gracias were present. The secretary of the Council, Bishop Marcello Semeraro, and the adjunct secretary Bishop Marco Mellino were also present.[52] 
The reading of the text will continue at the next session, set for April 2020.
References[edit]
^ "The Pope Institutes a Council of Cardinals to Assist in the Governance of the Universal Church". Vatican Information Service. 30 September 2013..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Pope Francis (28 September 2013). "Chirograph by which a Council of Cardinals is Established to Assist the Holy Father in the Governance of the Universal Church and to Study Possible Revisions of the Apostolic Constitution "Pastor Bonus" on the Roman Curia". The Holy See.
^ a b "Alba, Papa Francesco nomina monsignor Marco Mellino Vescovo e Segretario aggiunto del C9". Albese News (in Italian). 28 October 2018. Retrieved 12 December 2018.
^ a b "Resignations and Appointments, 27.10.2018" (Press release). Holy See Press Office. 27 October 2018. Retrieved 26 April 2019.
^ "Pope's eight cardinal advisors say the Curia is not the only thing they'll be reforming". Vatican Insider. 25 June 2013.
^ "Pope and "C9" express esteem for Von Freyberg and changes are on the horizon for the IOR". La Stampa. 2 July 2014. Retrieved 30 May 2018.
^ a b "Briefing by the Director of the Holy See Press Office, Greg Burke, on the 27th Meeting of the Council of Cardinals with the Holy Father Francis, 12.12.2018" (Press release). Holy See Press Office. 12 December 2018. Retrieved 12 December 2018.
^ https://www.catholicnewsagency.com/news/reports-of-pell-guilty-verdict-emerge-despite-gag-order-32220
^ "Council of Cardinal Advisors wrap-up December meeting - Vatican News". www.vaticannews.va. 12 December 2018. Retrieved 13 December 2018.
^ Horowitz, Jason; Povoledo, Elisabetta (12 December 2018). "Pope Expels Two Cardinals Implicated in Sex Abuse From His Council". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 13 December 2018.
^ "Pope removes two cardinals linked to sex abuse allegations from his inner circle". The Telegraph. 12 December 2018. Retrieved 12 December 2018.
^ Davey, Melissa (7 April 2020). "George Pell: Australian cardinal to be released from jail after high court quashes child sex abuse conviction". The Guardian. Retrieved 7 April 2020.
^ "Pope removes three cardinals from cabinet; two implicated in scandal". The Globe and Mail. 12 December 2018. Retrieved 13 December 2018.
^ San Martín, Inés (15 November 2018). "Chilean cardinal confirms exit from Pope Francis's advisory body". Crux. Retrieved 19 November 2018.
^ Palmo, Rocco (13 April 2013). "For "Project of Revision," Francis Calls A Council". Whispers in the Loggia.
^ a b "The Council of Cardinals: A New Constitution for the Curia". Vatican Information Service. 3 October 2013.
^ "The Roman Curia: Key Theme of the Second Round of the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service. 3 December 2013.
^ "The Pope's Meeting with the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service. 17 February 2014.
^ "Pontifical Commission for Reference on the Organisation of the Economic-Administrative Structure of the Holy See". GCatholic.
^ "Meeting of the Holy Father with the council of cardinals (28-30 April)". Vatican Information Service. 29 April 2014.
^ "Meeting of the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service. 2 July 2014.
^ "Meeting of the Council of Cardinals: "Free, Frank and Friendly"". Vatican Information Service. 4 July 2014.
^ a b "Sixth meeting of the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service.
^ a b "Reform of the Curia, the Commission for the Protection of Minors, reorganisation of economic dicasteries: key themes in the meeting of the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service. 12 December 2014.
^ "Ninth meeting of the Council of Cardinals". Official Vatican Network. 15 April 2015.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 6 May 2015. Retrieved 30 April 2015.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "The tenth meeting of the Council of Cardinals comes to an end". Vatican Information Service. 10 June 2015.
^ a b "Briefing on the eleventh meeting of the Council of Cardinals". Vatican Information Service. 16 September 2015.
^ "Council of cardinals approves Congregation for laity, family, life". Vatican Radio. 16 September 2015.
^ "Council of Cardinals conclude twelfth meeting". Vatican Radio. 12 December 2015.
^ "Thirteenth meeting of the Council of Cardinals: synodality and sound decentralisation". Vatican Information Service. 9 February 2016.
^ "Council of Cardinals concludes meetings in Vatican". Vatican Radio. 13 April 2016.
^ "Press briefing for XVIII Meeting of Cardinal Advisors". Vatican Radio. 15 February 2017.
^ "Press briefing at the conclusion of the meeting of the C-9". Vatican Radio. 26 April 2017.
^ "Council of Cardinals updates Pope on state of Vatican reform". Vatican Radio. 14 June 2017.
^ [1]
^ [2]
^ http://www.osservatoreromano.va/it/news/praedicate-evangelium
^ http://www.lastampa.it/2018/06/13/vaticaninsider/praedicate-evangelium-il-c-consegna-al-papa-la-bozza-della-riforma-della-curia-vXIVnIRMoeRHph5Bmpw6UP/pagina.html
^ a b https://www.vaticannews.va/en/vatican-city/news/2018-09/council-cardinals-pope-francis-curia-reform.html
^ https://www.yahoo.com/news/vatican-promises-clarifications-pope-cover-claims-161805683.html
^ [3]
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 12 September 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2018.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ a b c https://www.vaticannews.va/en/vatican-city/news/2018-12/council-cardinal-advisors-december-meeting-burke.html
^ a b https://www.catholicnewsagency.com/news/three-cardinals-dropped-from-c9-as-reform-process-nears-end-29340
^ McElwee, Joshua J. (24 February 2019). "Francis ends Vatican summit with promise church will 'decisively confront' abuse". National Catholic Reporter. Vatican City. Retrieved 24 April 2019.
^ Lamb, Christopher (22 April 2019). "Pope proposes radical shakeup of the Roman Curia". The Tablet. Retrieved 26 April 2019.
^ https://www.vaticannews.va/en/pope/news/2019-06/council-cardinals-pope-30th-meeting.html
^ a b https://cruxnow.com/vatican/2019/06/27/curial-aide-says-reform-is-about-mission-not-doctrine/
^ [4]
^ [5]
^ [6]
vteRoman Curia of the Holy SeeDicasteriesSecretariatesSecretariat of State
Cardinal Secretary of State
Latin Letters Office
Secretary for Relations with States
Secretariat for the Economy
Council for the Economy
Peter's Pence
Congregations(Advocates)
Doctrine of the Faith
Archive
Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments
Evangelization of Peoples
Causes of Saints
Bishops
Clergy
Oriental Churches
Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life
Catholic Education
Tribunals
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Roman Rota
1983 Code of Canon Law
Councils
Christian Unity
Legislative Texts
Interreligious Dialogue
Culture
New Evangelization
Offices
Apostolic Camera
Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Departments
Laity, Family and Life
Integral Human Development
Communications
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
L'Osservatore Romano
Vatican Polyglot Press
Vatican Publishing House
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Vatican News App
Pope2you
Institutes
Prefecture of the Papal Household
Office for the Liturgical Celebrations of the Supreme Pontiff
Commissions
Sacred Archaeology
Biblical
International Theological
For the Catechism
For Vatican City State · For Latin America
Disciplinary of the Roman Curia
For the Protection of Minors
Committees
Historical Sciences
International Eucharistic Congresses
Academies
Arcadia
Alphonsian
 Ecclesiastical
Fine Arts and Letters of the Virtuosi al Pantheon
Sciences
Theology
Archaeology
Martyrs
Saint Thomas Aquinas
Immaculate Conception
Mary
Life
Social Sciences
Latin
OtherInstitutions
College of Cardinals
Vatican Library
Archives
Film
Agenzia Fides
.va
Fabric of Saint Peter
St. Peter's Basilica
Office of Papal Charities
Peregrinatio ad Petri Sedem
Vatican Observatory
Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music
Agency for the Evaluation and Promotion of Qualityin Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties
Organisations
Institute for the Works of Religion
Financial Information Authority
Labour Office of the Apostolic See
Synod of Bishops in the Catholic Church
Swiss Guard
Council of Cardinal Advisers
Diocese of Rome
Vicar General for Vatican City
Vicar General for the Diocese of Rome
Vice-President of the Diocese of Rome
Roman pilgrimage work
RomaSette
History
Roman Inquisition (16th century)
Immensa Aeterni Dei (1588)
Reform by Paul VI (1967)
Reform by John Paul II (1988)
Formerdicasteries
Congregation for Borders
Congregation of Ceremonies
Sacred Congregation of the Index
Congregation of the Vatican Press
Sacred Congregation of the Consulta
Sacred Congregation of Rites
Apostolic Chancery
Apostolic Dataria
Secretariate of Briefs to Princes and of Latin Letters
Special Administration of the Holy See
Pontifical Commission for the Cultural Heritage of the Church
Pontifical Commission Ecclesia Dei
Pontifical Council for Social Communications
Pontifical Council for the Family
Pontifical Council for the Laity
Cor Unum
Justice and Peace
Pastoral Care of Migrants and Itinerant People
Pastoral Assistance to Health Care Workers
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteCollege of Cardinals
List of living cardinals
Cardinals of the Catholic Church under Pope Francis in order of precedence
Cardinal bishops
Re
Sandri
Sodano
Arinze
Bertone
Saraiva Martins
Parolin (CA)
Ouellet
Filoni
Stella
Tagle
Naguib
Raï
Sako
Cardinal priests
Kitbunchu
Nascimento
Williams
Gulbinowicz
Tomko
Poupard
Wetter
Martínez Somalo
Falcão
Santos
Tumi
Cassidy
López Rodríguez
Mahony
Ruini
Schwery
Darmaatmadja
Wamala
Maida
Puljić
Sandoval Íñiguez
Medina Estévez
Stafford
De Giorgi
Rouco Varela
Pengo
Schönborn
Rivera Carrera
Pujats
Cacciavillan
Sebastiani
Sepe
Kasper
Agnelo
Rubiano Sáenz
Bačkis
Errázuriz Ossa
Napier
Rodríguez Maradiaga (CA)
Cipriani Thorne
Álvarez Martínez
Hummes
Poletto
Herranz Casado
Lozano Barragán
Scola
Okogie
Zubeir Wako
Amigo Vallejo
Rigali
Scheid
Antonelli
Turkson
Toppo
Pell
Bozanić
Mẫn
Barbarin
Erdő
Rodé
Vallini
Urosa Savino
Rosales
Ricard
Cañizares Llovera
Cheong
O'Malley (CA)
Dziwisz
Zen
Vanhoye
Lajolo
Cordes
Comastri
Ryłko
Farina
Brady
Martínez Sistach
Vingt-Trois
Bagnasco
Sarr
Gracias (CA)
Robles Ortega
DiNardo
Scherer
Njue
Karlic
Vela Chiriboga
Monsengwo Pasinya
Romeo
Wuerl
Assis
Nycz
Patabendige Don
Marx (CA)
Alencherry
Collins
Duka
Eijk
Betori
Dolan
Woelki
Tong
Mureșan
Thottunkal
Onaiyekan
Salazar Gómez
Nichols
Brenes Solórzano
Lacroix
Kutwa
Tempesta
Bassetti
Poli
Yeom
Ezzati Andrello
Ouédraogo
Quevedo
Langlois
Felix
Clemente
Souraphiel
Dew
Menichelli
Nhơn
Suárez Inda
Bo
Kovithavanij
Montenegro
Sturla Berhouet
Blázquez Pérez
Lacunza Maestrojuán
Gomes Furtado
Mafi
Villalba
Langa
Nzapalainga
Osoro Sierra
Rocha
Cupich
D'Rozario
Porras Cardozo
De Kesel
Piat
Aguiar Retes
Ribat
Tobin
Fernandez
Khoarai
Zerbo
Omella Omella
Arborelius
Mangkhanekhoun
Rosa Chávez
De Donatis
Coutts
Santos Marto
Barreto Jimeno
Tsarahazana
Petrocchi
Maeda
Ticona Porco
Suharyo Hardjoatmodjo
García Rodríguez
Ambongo Besungu
Hollerich
Ramazzini Imeri
Zuppi
López Romero
Tamkevičius
Dal Corso
Cardinal deacons
Martino
Amato
Sarah
Monterisi
Burke
Koch
Piacenza
Ravasi
Brandmüller
Monteiro de Castro
Abril y Castelló
Vegliò
Bertello (CA)
Coccopalmerio
Aviz
O'Brien
Calcagno
Versaldi
Harvey
Baldisseri
Müller
Mamberti
De Magistris
Rauber
Zenari
Farrell
Simoni
Ladaria Ferrer
Becciu
Krajewski
Bocos Merino
Ayuso Guixot
Mendonça
Czerny
Fitzgerald
Cardinals ineligible to participate in a papal conclave in italics
(CA) = member of the Council of Cardinal Advisers
See also: Titular
Titular church
List of titular churches
List of creations of cardinals
 Category
 Media
 Catholic Church portal
vtePope Francis
Born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, 17 December 1936
Archbishop of Buenos Aires (1998–2013)
Cardinal Priest of San Roberto Bellarmino (2001–2013)
Pope (2013–present)
Events
Resignation of Pope Benedict XVI
Conclave
Inauguration
People declared venerable
Beatifications
Canonizations
Cardinals created
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill
Synods
2014
2015
2018
2019
U.S.–Cuban Thaw
Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy
Study Commission on the Women's Diaconate
Order of Malta leadership
Constitutions (selected)
Vultum Dei quaerere (Seeking the Face of God)
Veritatis gaudium (The Joy of Truth)
Exhortations
Evangelii gaudium (The Joy of the Gospel)
Amoris laetitia (The Joy of Love)
Gaudete et exsultate (Rejoice and Be Glad)
Christus vivit (Christ is Alive)
Querida Amazonia (Beloved Amazon)
Encyclicals
Lumen fidei (The Light of Faith)
Laudato si' (Praise Be to You)
Fratelli tutti (All Brothers)
Letters (selected)
Misericordiae vultus (The Face of Mercy, bull)
Misericordia et misera (Mercy and Misery)
Maiorem hac dilectionem (Greater Love than This, motu proprio)
Magnum principium (The Great Principle, motu proprio)
Vos estis lux mundi (You Are the Light of the World, motu proprio)
Visits (selected)
Philippines
North America (2015)
Kenya
Ireland
Baltic states
Related peoplePapalhousehold
Alfred Xuereb and Fabián Pedacchio (former personal secretaries)
Yoannis Lahzi Gaid and Gonzalo Aemilius (current personal secretaries)
Guido Marini (Master of Pontifical Liturgical Celebrations)
Georg Gänswein (Prefect of the Papal Household)
CardinalAdvisers
Óscar Rodríguez Maradiaga (coordinator)
Giuseppe Bertello
Oswald Gracias
Reinhard Marx
Seán Patrick O'Malley
Pietro Parolin (Cardinal Secretary of State)
Episcopate
Benedict XVI (preceding pope)
Angelo Comastri (Vicar General for Vatican City)
Angelo De Donatis (Vicar General)
Antonio Quarracino (preceding Archbishop of Buenos Aires)
Mario Aurelio Poli (succeeding Archbishop of Buenos Aires)
Sergio Rubin (biographer)
Related books
Pope Francis: Conversations with Jorge Bergoglio: His Life in His Own Words
On Heaven and Earth
Pope Francis: Life and Revolution
The Dictator Pope
Related
Coat of arms
Eponyms
Theology
Domus Sanctae Marthae (residence)
Wake Up! (2015 album)
Francis: Pray for Me (2015 film)
Chiamatemi Francesco (2015 film)
Pope Francis: A Man of His Word (2018 film)
The Two Popes (2019 film)
 Category
vteHoly See
Apostolic episcopal see of Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Sovereign subject of international law
History
Apostolic see
Primacy of Peter
History of papal primacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Lateran Palace
Museum
Duchy of Rome
Donation of Sutri
Donation of Pepin
Avignon Papacy
Papal States
Temporal power
Investiture Controversy
Age of Revolution
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Savoyard era
Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
World War II
Warsaw Pact
Sovereignsubjectofinternationallaw(Legal status)Officials
Pope Francis
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Cardinals
List
Advisers
Governance
Secretariat of State
College of Cardinals
Papal conclave
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Foreign affairs(Multilateral policy)
Section for Relations with States
To the Holy See
Of the Holy See
Heads
Italy
United Nations
Permanent Observer
in Geneva
European Union
Permanent Observer to the Council of Europe
Apostolic Nunciature
Nuncio
Treaties
Concordats
Dioceseof Romewith  universalfull communion(Papal primacy)Synods
Ordinary general assemblies
Extraordinary general assemblies
Special assemblies
Ecclesiasticalprovince of Rome(Vicariate: Rome,Vatican City)Suburbicarian sees
Ostia
Velletri-Segni
Porto-Santa Rufina
Frascati
Palestrina
Albano
Sabina-Poggio Mirteto
Territorial abbeys
Montecassino
Subiaco
Suffragan dioceses
Gaeta
Anagni-Alatri
Civita Castellana
Civitavecchia-Tarquinia
Frosinone-Veroli-Ferentino
Latina-Terracina-Sezze-Priverno
Rieti
Sora-Cassino-Aquino-Pontecorvo
Tivoli
Viterbo
Propertiesincludingextra-territorialityInsideRome
Major basilicas
St. Peter's Basilica
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Lateran Palace
Lateran University
Scala Sancta
Adjoining buildings
Palace of Saint Callixtus
Gianicolo Hill area
Pontifical Urban University
Pontifical North American College
Bambino Gesù Hospital
Palazzo della Cancelleria
Palace of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples
Palace of the Holy Office
Palace of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches
Palazzo Pio
Palace of the Vicariate
Pontifical Minor Roman Seminary
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Benedictine monastery
Pontifical Oratory of San Paolo
Beda College
Paul VI Audience Hall
Non-extraterritorial
Palace of the Holy Apostles
Palace of San Carlo ai Catinari
Collegio Bellarmino
Archaeological Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pontifical Lombard Seminary
Russian College
Two Palaces of Sant'Apollinare
House of Retreat for the Clergy of Saints John and Paul
Nympheum of Nero
OutsideRome
Papal Palace of Castel Gandolfo
Papal farm
Gardens of the Villa Cybo
Villa Barberini
Adjacent gardens
Summer estate of Pontificio Collegio Urbano de Propaganda Fide
Vatican Radio antennae area of Santa Maria di Galeria
Non-extraterritorial
Basilica of the Holy House
Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua
See also
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Awards
Papal household
Peter's Pence
Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Swiss Guard
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Council_of_Cardinal_Advisers&amp;oldid=968311350"
		Categories: Christian organizations established in 20132013 establishments in Vatican CityCollege of CardinalsReforms of the Roman CuriaPope FrancisHidden categories: CS1 Italian-language sources (it)CS1 maint: archived copy as titleUse dmy dates from July 2015
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		ČeštinaDeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoLatinaNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsTiếng Việt
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 18 July 2020, at 15:47 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
