	Utopian socialism
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Political theory concerned with imagined socialist societies
Part of a series onSocialism
Development
Age of the Enlightenment
French Revolution
History of socialism
Revolutions of 1848
Socialist calculation debate
Socialist economics
Ideas
Calculation in kind
Collective ownership
Cooperative
Common ownership
Commune (model of government)
Economic democracy
Economic planning
Equal liberty
Equal opportunity
Free association
Freed market
Industrial democracy
Input–output model
Internationalism
Labor-time calculation
Labour voucher
Material balance planning
Peer‑to‑peer economics
Production for use
Sharing economy
Social dividend
Social ownership
Socialism in one country
Socialist mode of production
To each according to his contribution/needs
Workers' self-management
Workplace democracy
Models
Communalism
Participatory economics
Democratic confederalism
Market economy
Market socialism
Lange model
Mutualism
Socialist market economy
Socialist-oriented market
Planned economy
Decentralized planning
Inclusive Democracy
OGAS
Project Cybersyn
Soviet-type
Social ecology
Variants
21st-century
African
Arab
Agrarian
Anarchism
Authoritarian
Blanquism
Chinese
Communism
Democratic
Ethical
Ecological
Feminist
Fourierism
Free-market
Gandhian
Guild
Laissez-faire
Liberal
Libertarian
Marhaenism
Marxism
Municipal
Nationalist
Owenism
Reformist
Religious
Revolutionary
Ricardian
Saint-Simonianism
Scientific
Social democracy
State
Syndicalism
Third World
Utopian
Zionist
By country
Argentina
Australia
Bangladesh
Brazil
Canada
China
Communist China
Nationalist China
Estonia
Greece
Hong Kong
India
Iran
Italy
Netherlands
New Zealand
Pakistan
Sri Lanka
Tunisia
United Kingdom
United States
Vietnam
Yugoslavia
People
More
Hall
Saint-Simon
Babeuf
Owen
Fourier
Thompson
Hodgskin
Cabet
Enfantin
Proudhon
Blanc
Herzen
Bakunin
Marx
Barmby
Engels
Lavrov
Lassalle
Morris
Jones
Kropotkin
Bernstein
Malatesta
Kautsky
Taylor
Plekhanov
Jaurès
Dewey
Barone
Du Bois
Goldman
Lenin
Luxemburg
Blum
Russell
Pannekoek
Recabarren
Einstein
Trotsky
Keller
Attlee
Tawney
Neurath
Polanyi
Makhno
Bordiga
Debs
Cole
Ho
Tito
Mao
Nagy
Pertini
Gerhardsen
Orwell
Douglas
Senghor
Erlander
Allende
Hoxha
Kreisky
Mitterrand
Nasser
Mandela
Crosland
Bookchin
Dubček
Zinn
Castoriadis
Thompson
Manley
Castro
Che
Chomsky
King
Craxi
Laclau
Sanders
Mouffe
Ali
Öcalan
Žižek
Corbyn
Layton
West
Hedges
Varoufakis
Organizations
First International
Second International
Third International
Fourth International
Fifth International
Labour andSocialist International
Socialist International
World Federation of DemocraticYouth
International Union of SocialistYouth
World Socialist Movement
International Committee of theFourth International
Progressive Alliance
Related topics
Anarchism
Capitalism
Communist society
Criticism of capitalism
Criticism of socialism
Economic calculation problem
Economic system
French Left
Left-libertarianism
Libertarianism
List of socialists
List of socialist economists
Marxist philosophy
Nanosocialism
Progressivism
Socialism and LGBT rights
Socialist calculation debate
Socialist Party
Socialist state
Types of socialism
 Economics portal
 Politics portal
 Socialism portalvte
Utopian socialism is the first current of modern socialism and socialist thought as exemplified by the work of Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier, Étienne Cabet, Robert Owen and Henry George.[1][2] Utopian socialism is often described as the presentation of visions and outlines for imaginary or futuristic ideal societies, with positive ideals being the main reason for moving society in such a direction. Later socialists and critics of utopian socialism viewed utopian socialism as not being grounded in actual material conditions of existing society and in some cases as reactionary. These visions of ideal societies competed with Marxist-inspired revolutionary social democratic movements.[3]
As a term or label, utopian socialism is most often applied to, or used to define, those socialists who lived in the first quarter of the 19th century who were ascribed the label utopian by later socialists as a pejorative in order to imply naiveté and to dismiss their ideas as fanciful and unrealistic.[4] A similar school of thought that emerged in the early 20th century which makes the case for socialism on moral grounds is ethical socialism.[5]
One key difference between utopian socialists and other socialists such as most anarchists and Marxists is that utopian socialists generally do not believe any form of class struggle or social revolution is necessary for socialism to emerge. Utopian socialists believe that people of all classes can voluntarily adopt their plan for society if it is presented convincingly.[3] They feel their form of cooperative socialism can be established among like-minded people within the existing society and that their small communities can demonstrate the feasibility of their plan for society.[3]
Contents
1 Definition
2 Development
3 In literature and in practice
4 Related concepts
5 Notable utopian socialists
6 Notable utopian communities
7 See also
8 References
9 Further reading
10 External links
Definition[edit]
See also: Utopia
The thinkers identified as utopian socialist did not use the term utopian to refer to their ideas. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were the first thinkers to refer to them as utopian, referring to all socialist ideas that simply presented a vision and distant goal of an ethically just society as utopian. This utopian mindset which held an integrated conception of the goal, the means to produce said goal and an understanding of the way that those means would inevitably be produced through examining social and economic phenomena can be contrasted with scientific socialism which has been likened to Taylorism.[citation needed]
This distinction was made clear in Engels' work Socialism: Utopian and Scientific (1892, part of an earlier publication, the Anti-Dühring from 1878). Utopian socialists were seen as wanting to expand the principles of the French revolution in order to create a more rational society. Despite being labeled as utopian by later socialists, their aims were not always utopian and their values often included rigid support for the scientific method and the creation of a society based upon scientific understanding.[6]
Development[edit]
Part of a series onCommunism
Concepts
Anti-capitalism
Class conflict
Class consciousness
Classless society
Collective leadership
Collectivism
Common ownership
Commune
Commune (model of government)
Communist society
Free association
From each according to his ability,to each according to his needs
Gift economy
Market abolitionism
Planned economy
Proletarian internationalism
Labour movement
Social revolution
Stateless society
Wage slavery
Workers' self-management
World communism
World revolution
Aspects
Communist party
List of anti-capitalist and communist partieswith national parliamentary representation
List of communist parties
Communist revolution
Communist state
Communist symbolism
History of communism
Variants
Anarchist
Marxism
Leninist
Libertarian
Pre-Marxist
Utopian
Primitive
Religious
Christian
Internationals
Communist League
First International
Second International
Third International
Fourth International
People
More
Campanella
Babeuf
Owen
Weitling
Marx
Engels
Reclus
Kropotkin
Malatesta
Luxemburg
Zetkin
Liebknecht
Lenin
Berkman
Goldman
Sacco and Vanzetti
Trotsky
Makhno
Kollontai
Gramsci
Stalin
Durruti
Pannekoek
Pankhurst
Reich
Togliatti
Ho
Mao
Tito
Camus
Marcuse
Sartre
Hoxha
Beauvoir
Guevara
Pasolini
Kim
Berlinguer
Castoriadis
Debord
Bookchin
Castro
Marcos
By region
Colombia
France
India
Kerala
Korea
Nepal
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Russia
Sumatra
Vietnam
Anthem
"The Internationale"
Related  topics
Anarchism
Social
Anti-communism
Anti anti-communism
Anti-communist mass killings
Anti-fascism
Anti-globalization movement
Capitalism
Communitarianism
Crimes against humanityunder communist regimes (Mass killings)
Critical theory
Internationalism
Intentional community
Left-wing politics
Old Left
New Left
Marx's theory of alienation
National communism
Romania
Red Scare
Revolution
Social democracy
Socialism
Democratic
Libertarian
Revolutionary
Socialist economics
Socialist mode of production
Syndicalism
Trade union
War communism
Worker cooperative
 Communism portalvte
The term utopian socialism was introduced by Karl Marx in "For a Ruthless Criticism of Everything" in 1843 and then developed in The Communist Manifesto in 1848, although shortly before its publication Marx had already attacked the ideas of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in The Poverty of Philosophy (originally written in French, 1847). The term was used by later socialist thinkers to describe early socialist or quasi-socialist intellectuals who created hypothetical visions of egalitarian, communalist, meritocratic, or other notions of perfect societies without considering how these societies could be created or sustained.
In The Poverty of Philosophy, Marx criticized the economic and philosophical arguments of Proudhon set forth in The System of Economic Contradictions, or The Philosophy of Poverty. Marx accused Proudhon of wanting to rise above the bourgeoisie. In the history of Marx's thought and Marxism, this work is pivotal in the distinction between the concepts of utopian socialism and what Marx and the Marxists claimed as scientific socialism. Although utopian socialists shared few political, social, or economic perspectives, Marx and Engels argued that they shared certain intellectual characteristics. In The Communist Manifesto, Marx and Friedrich Engels wrote: "The undeveloped state of the class struggle, as well as their own surroundings, causes Socialists of this kind to consider themselves far superior to all class antagonisms. They want to improve the condition of every member of society, even that of the most favored. Hence, they habitually appeal to society at large, without distinction of class; nay, by preference, to the ruling class. For how can people, when once they understand their system, fail to see it in the best possible plan of the best possible state of society? Hence, they reject all political, and especially all revolutionary, action; they wish to attain their ends by peaceful means, and endeavor, by small experiments, necessarily doomed to failure, and by the force of example, to pave the way for the new social Gospel".[7]
Marx and Engels associated utopian socialism with communitarian socialism which similarly sees the establishment of small intentional communities as both a strategy for achieving and the final form of a socialist society.[8] Marx and Engels used the term scientific socialism to describe the type of socialism they saw themselves developing. According to Engels, socialism was not "an accidental discovery of this or that ingenious brain, but the necessary outcome of the struggle between two historically developed classes, namely the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. Its task was no longer to manufacture a system of society as perfect as possible, but to examine the historical-economic succession of events from which these classes and their antagonism had of necessity sprung, and to discover in the economic conditions thus created the means of ending the conflict". Critics have argued that utopian socialists who established experimental communities were in fact trying to apply the scientific method to human social organization and were therefore not utopian. On the basis of Karl Popper's definition of science as "the practice of experimentation, of hypothesis and test", Joshua Muravchik argued that "Owen and Fourier and their followers were the real 'scientific socialists.' They hit upon the idea of socialism, and they tested it by attempting to form socialist communities". By contrast, Muravchik further argued that Marx made untestable predictions about the future and that Marx's view that socialism would be created by impersonal historical forces may lead one to conclude that it is unnecessary to strive for socialism because it will happen anyway.[9]
Since the mid-19th century, Marxism and Marxism–Leninism overtook utopian socialism in terms of intellectual development and number of adherents. At one time almost half the population of the world lived under regimes that claimed to be Marxist.[10] Currents such as Saint-Simonianism and Fourierism attracted the interest of numerous later authors but failed to compete with the now dominant Marxist, Proudhonist, or Leninist schools on a political level. It has been noted that they exerted a significant influence on the emergence of new religious movements such as spiritualism and occultism.[11][12]
In literature and in practice[edit]
Perhaps the first utopian socialist was Thomas More (1478–1535), who wrote about an imaginary socialist society in his book Utopia, published in 1516. The contemporary definition of the English word utopia derives from this work and many aspects of More's description of Utopia were influenced by life in monasteries.[13]
Saint-Simonianism was a French political and social movement of the first half of the 19th century, inspired by the ideas of Henri de Saint-Simon (1760–1825). His ideas influenced Auguste Comte (who was for a time Saint-Simon's secretary), Karl Marx, John Stuart Mill and many other thinkers and social theorists.
  Robert Owen was one of the founders of utopian socialism
Robert Owen (1771–1858) was a successful Welsh businessman who devoted much of his profits to improving the lives of his employees. His reputation grew when he set up a textile factory in New Lanark, Scotland, co-funded by his teacher, the utilitarian Jeremy Bentham and introduced shorter working hours, schools for children and renovated housing. He wrote about his ideas in his book A New View of Society which was published in 1813 and An Explanation of the Cause of Distress which pervades the civilized parts of the world in 1823. He also set up an Owenite commune called New Harmony in Indiana. This collapsed when one of his business partners ran off with all the profits. Owen's main contribution to socialist thought was the view that human social behavior is not fixed or absolute and that humans have the free will to organize themselves into any kind of society they wished.
Charles Fourier (1772–1837) rejected the Industrial Revolution altogether and thus the problems that arose with it. Fourier made various fanciful claims about the ideal world he envisioned. Despite some clearly non-socialist inclinations,[clarification needed] he contributed significantly even if indirectly to the socialist movement. His writings about turning work into play influenced the young Karl Marx and helped him devise his theory of alienation. Also a contributor to feminism, Fourier invented the concept of phalanstère, units of people based on a theory of passions and of their combination. Several colonies based on Fourier's ideas were founded in the United States by Albert Brisbane and Horace Greeley.
Many Romantic authors, most notably William Godwin and Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote anti-capitalist works and supported peasant revolutions across early 19th century Europe. Étienne Cabet (1788–1856), influenced by Robert Owen, published a book in 1840 entitled Travel and adventures of Lord William Carisdall in Icaria in which he described an ideal communalist society. His attempts to form real socialist communities based on his ideas through the Icarian movement did not survive, but one such community was the precursor of Corning, Iowa. Possibly inspired by Christianity, he coined the word communism and influenced other thinkers, including Marx and Engels.
  Utopian socialist pamphlet of Swiss social medical doctor Rudolf Sutermeister (1802–1868)
Edward Bellamy (1850–1898) published Looking Backward in 1888, a utopian romance novel about a future socialist society. In Bellamy's utopia, property was held in common and money replaced with a system of equal credit for all. Valid for a year and non-transferable between individuals, credit expenditure was to be tracked via "credit-cards" (which bear no resemblance to modern credit cards which are tools of debt-finance). Labour was compulsory from age 21 to 40 and organised via various departments of an Industrial Army to which most citizens belonged. Working hours were to be cut drastically due to technological advances (including organisational). People were expected to be motivated by a Religion of Solidarity and criminal behavior was treated as a form of mental illness or "atavism". The book ranked as second or third best seller of its time (after Uncle Tom's Cabin and Ben Hur). In 1897, Bellamy published a sequel entitled Equality as a reply to his critics and which lacked the Industrial Army and other authoritarian aspects.
William Morris (1834–1896) published News from Nowhere in 1890, partly as a response to Bellamy's Looking Backwards, which he equated with the socialism of Fabians such as Sydney Webb. Morris' vision of the future socialist society was centred around his concept of useful work as opposed to useless toil and the redemption of human labour. Morris believed that all work should be artistic, in the sense that the worker should find it both pleasurable and an outlet for creativity. Morris' conception of labour thus bears strong resemblance to Fourier's, while Bellamy's (the reduction of labour) is more akin to that of Saint-Simon or in aspects Marx.
The Brotherhood Church in Britain and the Life and Labor Commune in Russia were based on the Christian anarchist ideas of Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910). Pierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809–1865) and Peter Kropotkin (1842–1921) wrote about anarchist forms of socialism in their books. Proudhon wrote What is Property? (1840) and The System of Economic Contradictions, or The Philosophy of Poverty (1847). Kropotkin wrote The Conquest of Bread (1892) and Fields, Factories and Workshops (1912). Many of the anarchist collectives formed in Spain, especially in Aragon and Catalonia, during the Spanish Civil War were based on their ideas. While linking to different topics is always useful to maximize exposure, anarchism does not derive itself from utopian socialism and most anarchists would consider the association to essentially be a marxist slur designed to reduce the credibility of anarchism amongst socialists.[14]
Many participants in the historical kibbutz movement in Israel were motivated by utopian socialist ideas.[15] Augustin Souchy (1892–1984) spent most of his life investigating and participating in many kinds of socialist communities. Souchy wrote about his experiences in his autobiography Beware! Anarchist! Behavioral psychologist B. F. Skinner (1904–1990) published Walden Two in 1948. The Twin Oaks Community was originally based on his ideas. Ursula K. Le Guin (1929-2018) wrote about an impoverished anarchist society in her book The Dispossessed, published in 1974, in which the anarchists agree to leave their home planet and colonize a barely habitable moon in order to avoid a bloody revolution.
Related concepts[edit]
Some communities of the modern intentional community movement such as kibbutzim could be categorized as utopian socialist. Some religious communities such as the Hutterites are categorized as utopian religious socialists.[16]
Classless modes of production in hunter-gatherer societies are referred to as primitive communism by Marxists to stress their classless nature.[17] A related concept is that of a socialist utopia, usually depicted in works of fiction as possible ways society can turn out to be in the future and often combined with notions of a technologically revolutionized economy.
Notable utopian socialists[edit]
Edward Bellamy
Tommaso Campanella
Etienne Cabet
Icarians
Victor Considérant
David Dale
Charles Fourier
North American Phalanx
The Phalanx
Henry George
King Gillette
Jean-Baptiste Godin
Laurence Gronlund
Matti Kurikka
John Lennon
Thomas Moore
John Humphrey Noyes
Robert Owen
Vaso Pelagić
Henri de Saint-Simon
William Thompson
Wilhelm Weitling
Gerrard Winstanley
Notable utopian communities[edit]
Utopian communities have existed all over the world. In various forms and locations, they have existed continuously in the United States since the 1730s, beginning with Ephrata Cloister, a religious community in what is now Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.[18]
Owenite communities
New Lanark, Scotland, 1786
New Harmony, Indiana, 1814
Fourierist communities
Brook Farm, Massachusetts, 1841
La Reunion (Dallas), Texas, 1855
North American Phalanx, New Jersey, 1843
Silkville, Kansas, 1870
Utopia, Ohio, 1844
Icarian communities
Corning, Iowa, 1860
Anarchist communities
Home, Washington, 1898
Life and Labor Commune, Moscow Oblast, Soviet Union (Russia), 1921
Socialist Community of Modern Times, New York, 1851
Whiteway Colony, United Kingdom, 1898
Others
Kaweah Colony, California, 1886
Llano del Rio, California, 1914
Los Mochis, Sinaloa, Mexico, 1893
Nevada City, Nevada, 1916
New Australia, Paraguay, 1893
Oneida Community, New York, 1848
Ruskin Colony, Tennessee, 1894
Rugby, Tennessee, 1880
Sointula, British Columbia, Canada, 1901
See also[edit]
Christian socialism
Communist utopia
Diggers
Ethical socialism
Futurism
History of socialism
Ideal (ethics)
Intentional communities
Kibbutz
List of anarchist communities
Marxism
Nanosocialism
Post-capitalism
Post-scarcity
Ricardian socialism
Scientific socialism
Socialism
Socialist economics
Syndicalism
Utopia for Realists
Yellow socialism
Zero waste
References[edit]
^ "Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism". Public Broadcasting System. Retrieved December 15, 2011..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Utopian socialism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved July 12, 2020.
^ a b c Draper, Hal (1990). Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution, Volume IV: Critique of Other Socialisms. New York: Monthly Review Press. pp. 1–21. ISBN 978-0853457985.
^ Newman, Michael. (2005) Socialism: A Very Short Introduction, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-280431-6.
^ Thompson, Noel W. (2006). Political Economy and the Labour Party: The Economics of Democratic Socialism, 1884–2005 (2nd ed.). Abingdon, England: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-32880-7.
^ Frederick Engels. "Socialism: Utopian and Scientific (Chpt. 1)". Marxists.org. Retrieved July 3, 2013.
^ Engels, Friedrich and Marx, Karl Heinrich. Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei. Edited by Sálvio M. Soares. MetaLibri, October 31, 2008, v1.0s.
^ Leopold, David (2018). "Marx, Engels and Some (Non-Foundational) Arguments Against Utopian Socialism".  In Kandiyali, Jan (ed.). Reassessing Marx's Social and Political Philosophy: Freedom, Recognition and Human Flourishing. Routledge. p. 73.
^ Muravchik, Joshua (8 February 1999). "The Rise and Fall of Socialism". Bradley Lecture Series. American Enterprise Institute. Archived 3 May 1999 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 21 August 2020.
^ Steven Kreis (January 30, 2008). "Karl Marx, 1818-1883". The History Guide.
^ Strube, Julian (2016). "Socialist religion and the emergence of occultism: a genealogical approach to socialism and secularization in 19th-century France". Religion. 46 (3): 359–388. doi:10.1080/0048721X.2016.1146926.
^ Cyranka, Daniel (2016). "Religious Revolutionaries and Spiritualism in Germany around 1848". Aries. 16 (1): 13–48. doi:10.1163/15700593-01601002.
^ J. C. Davis (28 July 1983). Utopia and the Ideal Society: A Study of English Utopian Writing 1516-1700. Cambridge University Press. p. 58. ISBN 978-0-521-27551-4.
^ Sam Dolgoff (1990). The Anarchist Collectives: Workers' Self-Management in the Spanish Revolution, 1936–1939. Black Rose Books.
^ Sheldon Goldenberg and Gerda R. Wekerle (September 1972). "From utopia to total institution in a single generation: the kibbutz and Bruderhof". International Review of Modern Sociology. 2 (2): 224–232. JSTOR 41420450.
^ Donald E. Frey (2009). America's Economic Moralists: A History of Rival Ethics and Economics. SUNY Press. p. 61. ISBN 9780791493663.
^ "Primitive communism: life before class and oppression". Socialist Worker. May 28, 2013. Retrieved December 27, 2019.
^ Yaacov Oved (1988). Two Hundred Years of American Communes. Transaction Publishers. pp. 3, 19.
Further reading[edit]
Taylor, Keith (1992). The political ideas of Utopian socialists. London: Cass. ISBN 0714630896.
External links[edit]
 Media related to Utopian socialism at Wikimedia Commons
Be Utopian: Demand the Realistic by Robert Pollin, The Nation, March 9, 2009.
vteSocialismSchools of thought
21st century
Agrarian
Communist
Democratic
Ethical
Feminist
Green
Guild
Labourism
Syndicalism
Liberal
Market
Marxian
Nationalist
Reformist
Revolutionary
Scientific
Social democracy
Utopian
Fourierism
Icarianism
Owenism
Saint-Simonianism
Technocracy
Libertarian(from below)
Anarchism
Collectivist
Communist
Free-market
Left-wing laissez-faire
Left-wing market
Green
Individualist
Insurrectionary
Magonism
Mutualism
Neozapatismo
Participism
Platformism
Social
Syndicalist
Left-libertarianism
Libertarian Marxism
Left communism
Council communism
Luxemburgism
Mao-Spontex
Third camp
Authoritarian(from above)
Barracks
Nechayevism
Blanquism
Bolshevism
Leninism
Marxism–Leninism
Brezhnevism
Castroism
Ceaușism
Guevarism
Ho Chi Minh Thought
Hoxhaism
Husakism
Juche (originally)
Kadarism
Khrushchevism
Maoism
Dengism
Maoism–Third Worldism
Marxism–Leninism–Maoism
Marxism–Leninism–Maoism–Gonzalo Thought
Marxism–Leninism–Maoism–Prachanda Path
Xi Jinping Thought
Stalinism
Neo-Stalinism
Tkachevism
Trotskyism
Neo-Trotskyism
Pabloism
Posadism
Orthodox Trotskyism
State
Lassallism
Religious
Buddhist
Christian
Islamic
Jewish
Regional variants
African
African-Caribbean
Arab
Bolivarian
Chinese
Communist
Nationalist
European
Eurocommunism
Indian
Israeli
Indonesian
Melanesian
Mexican
Soviet
In one country
Real
Sri Lankan
Third World
Yugoslav
Key topics and issues
Anarchist economics
Anti-revisionism
Criticism of capitalism
Criticism of socialism
Class struggle
Democracy
Dictatorship of the proletariat
Egalitarianism
Equal liberty
Equality of opportunity
Equality of outcome
History of anarchism
History of communism
History of socialism
Impossibilism
"The Internationale"
Internationalism
State-owned enterprise
Land reform
Left-wing politics
Mixed economy
Mode of production
Nanosocialism
Nationalization
Planned economy
Post-capitalism
Proletarian revolution
Reformism
Revisionism
Socialisation of production
Socialist economics
Socialist market economy
Socialist state
State capitalism
Trade union
Welfare state
Concepts
Adhocracy
Anarchist economics
Basic income
Calculation in kind
Commune
Common ownership
Cooperative ownership
Decentralized planning
Direct democracy
Economic democracy
Economic planning
Equal opportunity
Free association
Industrial democracy
Labor-time calculation
Labour voucher
Organizational self-management
Production for use
Public ownership
Social dividend
Socialist mode of production
Technocracy
Workplace democracy
People16th c.
Tommaso Campanella
Thomas More
18th c.
Gracchus Babeuf
Victor d'Hupay
Gabriel Bonnot de Mably
Sylvain Maréchal
Étienne-Gabriel Morelly
19th c.
Stephen Pearl Andrews
Mikhail Bakunin
John Goodwyn Barmby
Enrico Barone
August Bebel
Edward Bellamy
Eduard Bernstein
Louis Blanc
Louis Auguste Blanqui
Philippe Buchez
Georg Büchner
Philippe Buonarroti
Étienne Cabet
Edward Carpenter
Nikolay Chernyshevsky
James Connolly
Victor Prosper Considerant
Claire Démar
Théodore Dézamy
W. E. B. Du Bois
Prosper Enfantin
Friedrich Engels
Charles Fourier
Emma Goldman
William Batchelder Greene
Charles Hall
Alexander Herzen
Thomas Hodgskin
Jean Jaurès
Mother Jones
Karl Kautsky
Peter Kropotkin
Paul Lafargue
Albert Laponneraye
Ferdinand Lassalle
Pyotr Lavrov
Alexandre Ledru-Rollin
Pierre Leroux
Helen Macfarlane
Errico Malatesta
Karl Marx
Louise Michel
Nikolay Mikhaylovsky
William Morris
Robert Owen
Antonie Pannekoek
Giovanni Pascoli
Constantin Pecqueur
Georgi Plekhanov
Pierre-Joseph Proudhon
Luis Emilio Recabarren
Henri de Saint-Simon
Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin
George Sand
Friedrich Wilhelm Schulz
Eugène Sue
Lysander Spooner
Fred M. Taylor
William Thompson
Pyotr Tkachev
Benjamin Tucker
Suzanne Voilquin
Alfred Russel Wallace
Josiah Warren
Wilhelm Weitling
Oscar Wilde
20th c.
Tariq Ali
Salvador Allende
Louis Aragon
Clement Attlee
Henri Barbusse
Zygmunt Bauman
Simone de Beauvoir
Walter Benjamin
Tony Benn
Léon Blum
Grace Lee Boggs
Murray Bookchin
Bertolt Brecht
Aristide Briand
Nikolai Bukharin
Cornelius Castoriadis
Hugo Chávez
Noam Chomsky
G. D. H. Cole
Jeremy Corbyn
Bob Crow
Guy Debord
Eugene V. Debs
John Dewey
Alexander Dubček
Albert Einstein
Einar Gerhardsen
Mikhail Gorbachev
Maxim Gorky
Antonio Gramsci
Chris Hedges
Eric Hobsbawm
Dolores Ibárruri
Pablo Iglesias Posse
Elfriede Jelinek
Martin Luther King Jr.
Alexandra Kollontai
Jack Layton
Henri Lefebvre
Claude Lefort
Vladimir Lenin
Ken Livingstone
György Lukács
Rosa Luxemburg
Nestor Makhno
Nelson Mandela
Mao Dun
Vladimir Mayakovsky
Maurice Merleau-Ponty
China Miéville
François Mitterrand
Evo Morales
Imre Nagy
Gamal Abdel Nasser
Otto Neurath
Paul Nizan
Abdullah Öcalan
Seán O'Casey
George Orwell
Sylvia Pankhurst
Fred Paterson
Pier Paolo Pasolini
Karl Polanyi
Bertrand Russell
Gaetano Salvemini
Bernie Sanders
Jean-Paul Sartre
Arthur Scargill
Léopold Sédar Senghor
George Bernard Shaw
R. H. Tawney
E. P. Thompson
Ernst Toller
Leon Trotsky
Yanis Varoufakis
H. G. Wells
Cornel West
Richard D. Wolff
Clara Zetkin
Howard Zinn
Slavoj Žižek
Organizations
Communist International
Fifth International
Foro de São Paulo
Fourth International
International League of Peoples' Struggle
International League of Religious Socialists
International Marxist Tendency
International Socialist Alternative
International Union of Socialist Youth
International Workingmen's Association
Second International
Socialist International
World Federation of Democratic Youth
World Socialist Movement
See also
Anarchism
Criticism of socialism
Communism
Economic calculation problem
Marxist philosophy
New Left
Old Left
Socialist calculation debate
Politics portal
Socialism portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Utopian_socialism&amp;oldid=979965855"
		Categories: Utopian socialismHistory of social movementsIdealismSocial theoriesSocialismSyndicalismTypes of socialismUtopiasHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2017Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2010Commons category link from Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةAsturianuবাংলাCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаКыргызчаLietuviųMagyarമലയാളംNederlands日本語OccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtWest-Vlams中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 23 September 2020, at 20:17 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
