	round
		Definition from Wiktionary, the free dictionary
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		See also: Round and 'round
Contents
1 English
1.1 Pronunciation
1.2 Etymology 1
1.2.1 Adjective
1.2.1.1 Synonyms
1.2.1.2 Derived terms
1.2.1.3 Translations
1.2.2 Noun
1.2.2.1 Synonyms
1.2.2.2 Antonyms
1.2.2.3 Hyponyms
1.2.2.4 Derived terms
1.2.2.5 Translations
1.2.3 Preposition
1.2.3.1 Derived terms
1.2.3.2 Translations
1.2.4 Adverb
1.2.4.1 Derived terms
1.2.4.2 Translations
1.2.5 Verb
1.2.5.1 Derived terms
1.2.5.2 Translations
1.2.6 See also
1.3 Etymology 2
1.3.1 Verb
1.4 Etymology 3
1.4.1 Noun
1.5 Anagrams
2 French
2.1 Etymology
2.2 Pronunciation
2.3 Noun
3 Italian
3.1 Etymology
3.2 Noun
4 Portuguese
4.1 Etymology
4.2 Pronunciation
4.3 Noun
5 Spanish
5.1 Etymology
5.2 Pronunciation
5.3 Noun
English[edit]
English Wikipedia has an article on:roundWikipedia 
Pronunciation[edit]
(Received Pronunciation, General American) IPA(key): /ˈɹaʊnd/
.mw-parser-output .k-player .k-attribution{visibility:hidden}Audio (US)(file)
Rhymes: -aʊnd
Etymology 1[edit]
Borrowed from Old French ront, runt, reont ( &gt; French rond), representing an earlier *rodond, from Latin rotundus or a Vulgar Latin form retundus (compare Italian rotondo, Provençal redon, Spanish redondo, etc.) The noun developed partly from the adjective and partly from the corresponding French noun rond. Compare the doublet rotund and rotunda.
Adjective[edit]
round (comparative rounder or more round, superlative roundest or most round)
(physical) Shape.
Circular or cylindrical; having a circular cross-section in one direction.
We sat at a round table to make conversation easier.
1954 July 29,  J.R.R. Tolkien,  “I: A Long-Expected Party”, in  The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings; 1), →ISBN:The flowers glowed red and golden: snapdragons and sunflowers, and nasturtians trailing all over the turf walls and peeping in at the round windows.
Spherical; shaped like a ball; having a circular cross-section in more than one direction.
The ancient Egyptian demonstrated that the Earth is round, not flat.
Lacking sharp angles; having gentle curves.
Our child's bed has round corners for safety.
Plump.
1977,  Agatha Christie,  chapter 2, in  An Autobiography, part II, London: Collins, →ISBN:If I close my eyes I can see Marie today as I saw her then. Round, rosy face, snub nose, dark hair piled up in a chignon.
Complete, whole, not lacking.
The baker sold us a round dozen.
?, Alfred Tennyson, Geraint and Enid
Round was their pace at first, but slackened soon.
(of a number) Convenient for rounding other numbers to; for example, ending in a zero.
One hundred is a nice round number.
(phonetics) Pronounced with the lips drawn together; rounded.
1959,  Anthony Burgess,  Beds in the East (The Malayan Trilogy), published 1972, page 421:"Supposing somebody sees you, with all those flowers too? Supposing somebody writes him a letter? Ooooh!" (a pure round open Tamil O.)
Outspoken; plain and direct; unreserved; not mincing.
a round answer; a round oath
1867, Matthew Arnold, On the Study of Celtic Literature
the round assertion
c. 1601–1602,  William Shakespeare,  “Twelfe Night, or VVhat You VVill”, in  Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, &amp; Tragedies: Published According to the True Originall Copies (First Folio), London: Printed by Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene iii], page 261, column 2:Sir Toby, I muſt be round with you.
Finished; polished; not defective or abrupt; said of authors or their writing style.
1622, Henry Peacham, The Compleat Gentleman
In his satires Horace is quick, round, and  […]  pleasant.
Consistent; fair; just; applied to conduct.
1625, Francis Bacon, Of Truth
Round dealing is the honour of man's nature.
Large in magnitude.
a round sum
1854,  Brillat-Savarin,  The Physiology of Taste: Or, Transcendental Gastronomy‎[1], page 108:By raising turkeys the farmers were able the more surely to pay their rents. Young girls often acquired a very sufficient dowry, and towns-folk who wished to eat them had to pay round prices for them.
(authorship, of a fictional character) Well-written and well-characterized; complex and reminiscent of a real person.
Antonym: flat
(architecture) Vaulted.
Synonyms[edit]
(circular): circular, cylindrical, discoid
(spherical): spherical
(of corners that lack sharp angles): rounded
(plump): plump, rotund
(not lacking): complete, entire, whole
(of a number): rounded
(pronounced with the lips drawn together): rounded
Derived terms[edit]
roundabout
round angle
round dozen
rounded vowel
round table
round-table
round the clock
round trip 
Translations[edit]
circular or cylindrical
Afrikaans: rond (af)
Arabic: مُسْتَدِير‎ (mustadīr), مُدَوَّر‎ (mudawwar)
Armenian: կլոր (hy) (klor), բոլորակ (hy) (bolorak)
Asturian: redondu (ast)
Azerbaijani: yumru (az)
Bashkir: түңәрәк (tüñäräk)
Belarusian: кру́глы (krúhly)
Breton: krenn (br)
Bulgarian: кръ́гъл (bg) (krǎ́gǎl)
Burmese: ဝိုင်း (my) (wuing:)
Catalan: rodó (ca)
Chamicuro: na'tepelejka
Chechen: горга (gorga)
Chinese:
Cantonese: 圓 (jyun4)
Mandarin: 圓 (zh), 圆 (zh) (yuán)
Cornish: krenn
Czech: kulatý (cs) m
Dutch: rond (nl)
Esperanto: cirkla
Estonian: ümmargune
Finnish: pyöreä (fi)
French: rond (fr)
Old French: reont
Friulian: taront
Galician: redondo (gl)
Georgian: წრიული (c̣riuli)
German: rund (de)
Greek: στρογγυλός (el) (strongylós)
Ancient: στρογγύλος (strongúlos)
Guaraní: apu'a
Hungarian: kerek (hu), körkörös (hu), kör alakú (hu)
Ido: cirkla (io), cirklala (io)
Indonesian: bundar (id)
Irish: cruinn
Italian: rotondo (it), tondo (it)
Japanese: 丸い (ja) (まるい, marui)
Kabuverdianu: rodondu, rudondu
Korean: 둥근 (ko) (dunggeun)
Kurdish:
Central Kurdish: خِڕ‎ (xirr)
Northern Kurdish: giloverr (ku)
Southern Kurdish: خِڕ‎ (xirr)
Latgalian: opols m
Latin: rotundus m
Latvian: apaļš m
Lithuanian: apvalus m
Macedonian: кружен (kružen), округол (okrugol)
Maori: porokawa
Navajo: názbąs
Neapolitan: rotunno, tunno
Norman: rond
Norwegian: rund
Occitan: redond (oc)
Old English: sinewealt
Papiamentu: rònt
Pashto: ګرد‎ (gërd)
Persian: گرد‎ (fa) (gerd), مدور‎ (fa) (modavvar)
Plautdietsch: runt
Polish: okrągły (pl)
Portuguese: redondo (pt), cilíndrico (pt)
Romanian: rotund (ro)
Romansch: radund
Russian: кру́глый (ru) m (krúglyj), окру́глый (ru) (okrúglyj)
Sanskrit: मण्डल (sa) (maṇḍala)
Sardinian: tundhu
Scots: roond
Scottish Gaelic: cruinn
Sicilian: tunnu (scn)
Slovak: okrúhly
Slovene: okrogel (sl)
Sorbian:
Lower Sorbian: kulaty
Spanish: redondo (es), circular (es)
Sundanese: bunder
Swedish: rund (sv)
Tajik: гирд (tg) (gird)
Telugu: గుండ్రని (te) (guṇḍrani)
Turkish: yuvarlak (tr)
Tuvan: борбак (borbak), тырыкы (tırıkı)
Ukrainian: кру́глий (uk) (krúhlyj)
Vietnamese: xoe, tròn (vi)
Welsh: crwn (cy)
Yagnobi: гирд
Yiddish: קײַלעכדיק‎ (kaylekhdik)
Zealandic: rond
spherical
Arabic: مُسْتَدِير‎ (mustadīr), كُرَوِيّ‎ (kurawiyy)
Armenian: կլոր (hy) (klor), գնդաձև (gndajew)
Assamese: ঘূৰণীয়া (ghuronia), গোল (gül), টুপুৰা (tupura)
Bashkir: йомро (yomro), йоморо (yomoro)
Burmese: လုံး (my) (lum:)
Chechen: горга (gorga)
Czech: kulatý (cs) m
Dutch: rond (nl)
Finnish: pyöreä (fi)
French: rond (fr)
Old French: reont
Galician: redondo (gl)
German: rund (de)
Guaraní: apu'a
Hungarian: gömbölyű (hu)
Indonesian: bulat (id)
Japanese: 丸い (ja) (まるい, marui)
Korean: 구체의 (guche-ui)
Latin: globōsus
Lithuanian: apvalus m
Maori: tōpuku, kōpuku, kōtakataka, pōtakataka, porokawa
Norman: rond
Norwegian: rund
Old English: sinewealt
Pashto: ګرد‎ (gërd), غونډ‎ (ps) (ǧunḍ)
Persian: گرد‎ (fa) (gerd)
Plautdietsch: runt
Polish: okrągły (pl)
Portuguese: redondo (pt), rotundo (pt), esférico (pt)
Russian: кру́глый (ru) m (krúglyj)
Scots: roond
Scottish Gaelic: cruinn
Slovene: okrogel (sl)
Sorbian:
Lower Sorbian: kulaty
Spanish: redondo (es), esférico (es)
Sundanese: buleud
Swedish: rund (sv)
Turkish: küresel (tr), yuvarlak (tr)
Tuvan: борбак (borbak)
of corners that lack sharp angles
Czech: kulatý (cs) m
Dutch: afgerond (nl)
Finnish: pyöreä (fi), pyöristetty (fi)
German: abgerundet (de)
Greek: στρογγυλεμένος (el) (strongyleménos)
Hungarian: lekerekített (hu), legömbölyített
Lithuanian: užapvalintas m
Pashto: غونډ‎ (ps) (ǧunḍ), ګرد‎ (gërd)
Portuguese: arredondado (pt)
Russian: кру́глый (ru) (krúglyj), закруглённый (ru) (zakrugljónnyj)
Scots: roond
Scottish Gaelic: cruinn, crom
Slovene: zaobljen
Sorbian:
Lower Sorbian: kulaty
Spanish: redondo (es)
Swedish: rund (sv), rundad, avrundad (sv)
Turkish: yumuşak (tr)
plump
Assamese: গোল (gül), ধেপেচা (dhepesa)
Dutch: dik (nl), mollig (nl), rond (nl)
Finnish: pyöreä (fi), pullea (fi), pulska (fi)
French: rond (fr) m, ronde (fr) f
German: mollig (de), rund (de)
Hungarian: telt (hu), telt idomú, dundi (hu), pufók (hu), molett (hu)
Italian: rotondo (it)
Norman: rond
Portuguese: rechonchudo (pt), roliço (pt)
Russian: по́лный (ru) (pólnyj)
Scots: roond
Slovene: okrogel (sl)
complete, not lacking
Chinese:
Mandarin: 圓 (zh), 圆 (zh) (yuán))
Finnish: pyöreä (fi), täysi (fi)
French: complet (fr) m
German: rund (de)
Hungarian: jól kidolgozott, árnyalt (hu), többdimenziós (hu), életszerű (hu), eleven (hu), színes (hu), életteli, kerek (hu)
Latin: rotundus m
Portuguese: redondo (pt)
Russian: по́лный (ru) (pólnyj)
Scots: roond
Scottish Gaelic: cruinn
Spanish: redondo (es)
Swedish: allsidig (sv)
Turkish: tam (tr)
of a number that has been rounded off
Chinese:
Mandarin: 整数 (zh) (zhěngshù)
Czech: kulatý (cs) m
Dutch: rond (nl), afgerond (nl)
Finnish: pyöreä (fi), pyöristetty (fi)
French: rond (fr)
Galician: redondo (gl)
Georgian: დამრგვალებული (damrgvalebuli)
German: rund (de)
Hungarian: kerek (hu), kerekített sg (Formal, used when number was derived from a more accurate value on some purpose. Contrary, "kerek" refers to any round(ed) number. Eg. "1000 is a round number." vs. "For cash payments in Hungary, final sum is rounded to the nearest 5-HUF value since 2008, in which year coins with smaller denominations (1HUF, 2HUF) have been withdrawn from circulation.")
Lithuanian: suapvalintas
Portuguese: arredondado (pt)
Russian: кру́глый (ru) (krúglyj)
Scots: roond
Sorbian:
Lower Sorbian: kulaty
Swedish: avrundad (sv), rund (sv)
Turkish: tam (tr)
pronounced with the mouth in the shape of an "O"
Finnish: pyöreä (fi)
French: arrondi (fr)
German: gerundet (de)
Hebrew: מעוגל‎
Hungarian: ajakkerekítéses, kerekített, labiális (hu)
Portuguese: arredondado (pt), labializado
Scots: roond
Turkish: yuvarlak (tr)
The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables, removing any numbers. Numbers do not necessarily match those in definitions. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations.
Translations to be checked
Arabic: (please verify) مُسْتَدِير‎ (mustadīr)
Ido: (please verify) ronda (io)
Korean: (please verify) 둥근 (ko) (dunggeun)
Swedish: (please verify) rund (sv)
Vietnamese: (please verify) tròn (vi)
Noun[edit]
round (plural rounds)
A circular or spherical object or part of an object.
1671,  John Milton,  Paradise Regain’d. A Poem. In IV Books. To which is Added, Samson Agonistes, London:  […]  J. M[acock] for John Starkey […], OCLC 228732398:in labyrinth of many a round self-rolled
1910,  Emerson Hough,  “A Lady in Company”, in  The Purchase Price: Or The Cause of Compromise, Indianapolis, Ind.: The Bobbs-Merrill Company, OCLC 639762314, page 6:Serene, smiling, enigmatic, she faced him with no fear whatever showing in her dark eyes. [...] She put back a truant curl from her forehead where it had sought egress to the world, and looked him full in the face now, drawing a deep breath which caused the round of her bosom to lift the lace at her throat.
1955, William Golding, The Inheritors, Faber and Faber 2005, page 50:
All at once the sun was through, a round of dulled silver, racing slantwise through the clouds yet always staying in the same place.
A circular or repetitious route.
hospital rounds
The guards have started their rounds; the prisoner should be caught soon.
1918,  W[illiam] B[abington] Maxwell,  chapter XXXIII, in  The Mirror and the Lamp, Indianapolis, Ind.: The Bobbs-Merrill Company, OCLC 4293071, page 257:Edward Churchill still attended to his work in a hopeless mechanical manner like a sleep-walker who walks safely on a well-known round. But his Roman collar galled him, his cossack stifled him, his biretta was as uncomfortable as a merry-andrew's cap and bells.
A general outburst from a group of people at an event.
The candidate got a round of applause after every sentence or two.
A song that is sung by groups of people with each subset of people starting at a different time.
 A serving of something; a portion of something to each person in a group.
They brought us a round of drinks about every thirty minutes.
1846 October 1 – 1848 April 1,  Charles Dickens,  “Retribution”, in  Dombey and Son, London: Bradbury and Evans, […], published 1848, OCLC 145080417, page 594:There is a snaky gleam in her hard grey eye, as of anticipated rounds of buttered toast, relays of hot chops, worryings and quellings of young children, sharp snappings at poor Berry, and all the other delights of her Ogress's castle.
A single individual portion or dose of medicine.
2009 May 26, Patrick Condon, "Boy with cancer, mom return home", Associated Press, printed in Austin American-Statesman, page A4:
Daniel underwent one round of chemotherapy in February but stopped after that single treatment, citing religious beliefs.
One sandwich (two full slices of bread with filling).
(art) A long-bristled, circular-headed paintbrush used in oil and acrylic painting.
A firearm cartridge, bullet, or any individual ammunition projectile. Originally referring to the spherical projectile ball of a smoothbore firearm. Compare round shot and solid shot.
(sports) One of the specified pre-determined segments of the total time of a sport event, such as a boxing or wrestling match, during which contestants compete before being signaled to stop.
2002 April 19, Scott Tobias, Fightville[2], The A.V. Club:
And though Fightville, an MMA documentary from the directors of the fine Iraq War doc Gunner Palace, presents it more than fairly, the sight of a makeshift ring getting constructed on a Louisiana rodeo ground does little to shake the label. Nor do the shots of ringside assistants with spray bottles and rags, mopping up the blood between rounds
A stage, level, set of events in a game
(sports) A stage in a competition.
qualifying rounds of the championship
(sports) In some sports, e.g. golf or showjumping: one complete way around the course.
(video games) A stage or level of a game.
1981,  Tom Hirschfeld,  How to Master the Video Games, page 88:When the player uses one shell to complete a round within 50 seconds, it vanishes forever. At the end of two successful rounds, for instance, the player has only two shells to pick from during docking.
(card games) The play after each deal.
(engineering, drafting, CAD) A rounded relief or cut at an edge, especially an outside edge, added for a finished appearance and to soften sharp edges.
A strip of material with a circular face that covers an edge, gap, or crevice for decorative, sanitary, or security purposes.
All furniture in the nursery had rounds on the edges and in the crevices.
(butchery) The hindquarters of a bovine.
(dated) A rung, as of a ladder.
1687,  [John Dryden],  “(please specify the page number(s))”, in  The Hind and the Panther. A Poem, in Three Parts, 2nd edition, London: Printed for Jacob Tonson […], OCLC 460679539:
All the rounds like Jacob's ladder rise.
1851 November 14,  Herman Melville,  “The Pulpit”, in  Moby-Dick; or, The Whale, 1st American edition, New York, N.Y.: Harper &amp; Brothers; London: Richard Bentley, OCLC 57395299, page 42:The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood, so that at every step there was a joint.
A crosspiece that joins and braces the legs of a chair.
A series of changes or events ending where it began; a series of like events recurring in continuance; a cycle; a periodical revolution.
the round of the seasons    a round of pleasures
1889,  Mathilde Blind,  “[Love in Exile. Song X.] ‘On Life’s Long Round’.”, in  The Ascent of Man, London: Chatto &amp; Windus, […], OCLC 1017374996, stanza 1, page 177:On life's long round by chance I found / A dell impearled with dew, / Where hyacinths, gushing from the ground, / Lent to the earth heaven's native hue / Of holy blue.
A course of action or conduct performed by a number of persons in turn, or one after another, as if seated in a circle.
c. 1732, George Granville, Women
Women to cards may be compar'd: we play / A round or two; when us'd, we throw away.
1709, Matthew Prior, Pleasure
The feast was served; the bowl was crowned; / To the king's pleasure went the mirthful round.
A series of duties or tasks which must be performed in turn, and then repeated.
1827,  [John Keble],  “Morning”, in  The Christian Year: Thoughts in Verse for the Sundays and Holydays throughout the Year, volume I, Oxford, Oxfordshire:  […]  J. Parker; and C[harles] and J[ohn] Rivington, […], OCLC 1029642537, page 4:The trivial round, the common task, / Would furnish all we ought to ask; [...]
A circular dance.
1634 October 9 (first performance)​,  [John Milton], H[enry] Lawes, editor, A Maske Presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634: […] [Comus], London: Printed [by Augustine Matthews] for Hvmphrey Robinson, […], published 1637, OCLC 228715864; reprinted as  Comus: […] (Dodd, Mead &amp; Company’s Facsimile Reprints of Rare Books; Literature Series; no. I), New York, N.Y.: Dodd, Mead &amp; Company, 1903, OCLC 1113942837:Come, knit hands, and beat the ground, / In a light fantastic round.
Rotation, as in office; succession.
(Can we find and add a quotation of Holyday to this entry?)
A general discharge of firearms by a body of troops in which each soldier fires once.
An assembly; a group; a circle.
a round of politicians
A brewer's vessel in which the fermentation is concluded, the yeast escaping through the bunghole.
(archaic) A vessel filled, as for drinking.
(nautical) A round-top.
A round of beef.
Synonyms[edit]
(song with each subset starting at a different time): canon
(hindquarters of a bovine): rump
Antonyms[edit]
(rounded inside edge): fillet
Hyponyms[edit]
(song with each subset starting at a different time): catch
Derived terms[edit]
round of applause
round of ammunition
Translations[edit]
circular object
Arabic: دَائِرَة‎ (ar) f (dāʾira)
Belarusian: круг m (kruh)
Bulgarian: кръг (bg) m (krǎg)
Chinese:
Mandarin: 圓 (zh), 圆 (zh) (yuán)
Finnish: ympyrä (fi)
French: rond (fr) m
German: Kreis (de) m, Runde (de) f
Italian: tondo (it) m, circolo (it) m, cerchio (it) m
Japanese: 円 (ja) (えん, en), 丸 (ja) (まる, maru)
Kurdish:
Sorani: خڕ‎ (ku) (xirr)
Macedonian: круг m (krug)
Pashto: ګرد‎ m (gërd), غونډ‎ (ps) m (ǧunḍ)
Persian: دایره‎ (fa) (dâyire), دور‎ (fa) (dowr)
Polish: okrąg (pl) m, krąg (pl) m, koło (pl) n, runda (pl) f
Portuguese: círculo (pt) m
Russian: круг (ru) m (krug)
Serbo-Croatian:
Cyrillic: круг m
Roman: krug (sh) m
Slovak: kruh m
Slovene: krog (sl) m
Sorbian:
Lower Sorbian: koło n
Turkish: çember (tr)
Ukrainian: круг (uk) m (kruh), ко́ло (uk) n (kólo)
circular or repetitious route
Armenian: համայց (hy) (hamaycʿ)
Czech: obchůzka f
Finnish: kierros (fi)
French: ronde (fr) f, étape (fr)
German: Runde (de) f, Visite (de) f (doctor's round)
Italian: giro (it) m, tappa (it)
Norman: (delivery) touônée f
Norwegian:
Bokmål: runde m
Nynorsk: runde m
Polish: obchód (pl) m
Portuguese: ronda (pt) f, etapa (pt)
Russian: обхо́д (ru) m (obxód)
Slovene: obhod m
Spanish: etapa (es)
Swedish: runda (sv) c, varv (sv) n
outburst
Dutch: ronde (nl) f
Finnish: aplodit pl (round of applause)
French: éclat (fr) m
Italian: salva (it) f, scroscio (it) m, esplosione (it) f, scoppio (it) m
Portuguese: salva (pt) f
Swedish: runda (sv) c
song with each subset starting at a different time
Czech: kánon
Dutch: canon (nl) m
Finnish: kaanon (fi)
French: canon (fr) m
German: Kanon (de) m
Italian: canone (it) m
Portuguese: ronda (pt) f, cânone (pt) m
Swedish: kanon (sv)
serving
Catalan: ronda (ca) f
Czech: runda (cs) f
Finnish: kierros (fi), annos (fi)
French: tournée (fr) f
Galician: rolda (gl)
German: Runde (de)
Italian: giro (it) m, mano (it) m
Kurdish:
Sorani: جەم‎ (ku) (cem)
Polish: kolejka (pl) f
Portuguese: rodada f
Slovene: runda f
Spanish: ronda (es) f
Swedish: runda (sv) c
single individual portion or dose of medicine
Finnish: annos (fi), kuuri (fi)
Italian: ciclo (it) m, serie (it) f
Portuguese: dose (pt) f
circular paintbrush
Finnish: pyörösivellin
Italian: pennello a testa tonda m
Portuguese: pincel redondo m
individual ammunition shell
Chinese:
Cantonese: 發 (faat3)
Mandarin: 发 (zh) (fā)
Finnish: patruuna (fi), ammus (fi)
French: coup (fr) m
Irish: urchar m
Italian: carica (it) f, salva (it) f
Maori: rauna, rauna
Norwegian:
Bokmål: skudd n
Polish: nabój (pl) m, pocisk (pl) m
Portuguese: carga (pt) f
Russian: патро́н (ru) m (patrón)
Swedish: patron (sv)
Turkish: mermi (tr), kurşun (tr)
segment of a sport event
Arabic: مَرْحَلَة‎ f (marḥala)
Armenian: ռաունդ (hy) (ṙaund)
Chinese:
Mandarin: 回合 (zh) (huíhé)
Czech: kolo (cs) n
Dutch: ronde (nl)
Finnish: erä (fi)
French: round (fr) m
Georgian: რაუნდი (raundi)
German: Runde (de) f
Indonesian: babak (id), ronde (id)
Italian: ripresa (it) f
Japanese: ラウンド (raundo)
Khmer: ទឹក (km) (tɨk)
Korean: please add this translation if you can
Lao: please add this translation if you can
Norwegian:
Bokmål: runde m
Nynorsk: runde m
Polish: runda (pl) f
Portuguese: rodada f, assalto (pt) m (martial arts), round (pt) m (martial arts), tempo (pt) m
Russian: ра́унд (ru) m (ráund)
Slovene: runda f
Spanish: asalto (es) m
Swahili: raundi (sw)
Swedish: rond (sv) c, omgång (sv) c
Thai: please add this translation if you can
Turkish: raund (tr)
Vietnamese: please add this translation if you can
stage of a sports competition
Chinese:
Mandarin: 回合 (zh) (huíhé)
Finnish: kierros (fi), erä (fi)
French: épreuve (fr) f, tour (fr) m
Georgian: რაუნდი (raundi)
German: Runde (de)
Hungarian: kör (hu), forduló (hu)
Norwegian:
Bokmål: runde m
Nynorsk: runde m
Polish: runda (pl) f
Portuguese: rodada f
Russian: ра́унд (ru) m (ráund), игра́ (ru) f (igrá), (e.g. chess) па́ртия (ru) f (pártija), кон (ru) m (kon), тайм (ru) m (tajm)
Scottish Gaelic: cuairt f
Swedish: runda (sv) c, omgång (sv) c
golf etc: way around the course
Catalan: volta (ca) f
Finnish: kierros (fi)
French: tour (fr) m
Japanese: ラウンド (raundo)
Portuguese: round (pt) m
Russian: ра́унд (ru) m (ráund)
Scottish Gaelic: cuairt f
Swedish: runda (sv) c, golfrunda c
card games: moment from the deal until the players are finished with the cards
Spanish: mano (es) f
Swedish: giv (sv) c
rounded relief or cut at an edge
Finnish: pyöristys (fi)
Italian: bisello (it) m, smussatura f
Portuguese: bisel (pt) m, chanfro (pt) m, chanfradura (pt) f, biselagem f
strip of material with a circular face
Finnish: pyöristys (fi), pyöristyslista
Italian: imbottitura (it) f, antiurto m
Portuguese: rodela (pt) f, círculo (pt) m
hindquarters of a bovine for butchering
Finnish: paisti (fi)
Italian: girello (it) m, lombo m
Portuguese: lombo (pt) m
rung of a ladder
Finnish: askelma (fi)
Italian: piolo (it) m
Portuguese: degrau (pt) m
The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables, removing any numbers. Numbers do not necessarily match those in definitions. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations.
Translations to be checked
Vietnamese: (please verify) loạt (vi) (1)
Preposition[edit]
round
(rare  in US) Alternative form of around
I look round the room quickly to make sure it's neat.
1782, William Cowper, The Progress of Error
The serpent Error twines round human hearts.
Derived terms[edit]
go round
look round
Translations[edit]
around — see around
Adverb[edit]
round (not comparable)
Alternative form of around
1822,  [Walter Scott],  Peveril of the Peak. [...] In Four Volumes, volume (please specify |volume=I, II, III, or IV), Edinburgh: Printed for Archibald Constable and Co.; London: Hurst, Robinson, and Co., OCLC 2392685:The invitations were sent round accordingly.
Derived terms[edit]
turnround (from turn round)
Translations[edit]
around — see around
Verb[edit]
round (third-person singular simple present rounds, present participle rounding, simple past and past participle rounded)
(transitive) To shape something into a curve.
The carpenter rounded the edges of the table.
1626, Francis Bacon, Sylva Sylvarum, Or, A Naturall Historie: In Ten Centuries
Worms with many feet, which round themselves into balls, are bred chiefly under logs of timber.
some time after his death in 1719???, Joseph Addison, Dialogues Upon the Usefulness of Ancient Medals
The figures on our modern medals are raised and rounded to a very great perfection.
(intransitive) To become shaped into a curve.
1900, Charles W. Chesnutt, The House Behind the Cedars, Chapter I,
The girl's figure, he perceived, was admirably proportioned; she was evidently at the period when the angles of childhood were rounding into the promising curves of adolescence.
(with "out") To finish; to complete; to fill out.
She rounded out her education with only a single mathematics class.
1610–1611,  William Shakespeare,  “The Tempest”, in  Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, &amp; Tragedies: Published According to the True Originall Copies (First Folio), London: Printed by Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act IV, scene i]:We are such stuff / As dreams are made on, and our little life / Is rounded with a sleep.
(intransitive) To approximate a number, especially a decimal number by the closest whole number.
Ninety-five rounds up to one hundred.
(transitive) To turn past a boundary.
Helen watched him until he rounded the corner.
(intransitive) To turn and attack someone or something (used with on).
As a group of policemen went past him, one of them rounded on him, grabbing him by the arm.
(transitive, baseball) To advance to home plate.
And the runners round the bases on the double by Jones.
(transitive) To go round, pass, go past.
2011 March 2,  Andy Campbell,  “Celtic 1 - 0 Rangers”, in  BBC‎[3]:Diouf rounded Zaluska near the byeline and crossed but Daniel Majstorovic headed away and Celtic eventually mopped up the danger.
To encircle; to encompass.
Synonym: surround
c. 1593,  William Shakespeare,  “The Tragedy of Richard the Third: […]”, in  Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, &amp; Tragedies: Published According to the True Originall Copies (First Folio), London: Printed by Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act IV, scene i]:The inclusive verge / Of golden metal that must round my brow.
To grow round or full; hence, to attain to fullness, completeness, or perfection.
c. 1610–1611,  William Shakespeare,  “The VVinters Tale”, in  Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, &amp; Tragedies: Published According to the True Originall Copies (First Folio), London: Printed by Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, OCLC 606515358, [Act II, scene i]:The queen your mother rounds apace.
1849,  [Alfred, Lord Tennyson],  In Memoriam, London: Edward Moxon, […], published 1850, OCLC 3968433, (please specify |part=prologue or epilogue, or |canto=I to CXXIX):
So rounds he to a separate mind, / From whence clear memory may begin.
(medicine, colloquial) To do ward rounds.
(obsolete, intransitive) To go round, as a guard; to make the rounds.
1667,  John Milton,  “Book 4”, in  Paradise Lost. A Poem Written in Ten Books, London:  […]  [Samuel Simmons], […], OCLC 228722708; republished as  Paradise Lost in Ten Books: […], London: Basil Montagu Pickering […], 1873, OCLC 230729554:They  […]  nightly rounding walk.
(obsolete, intransitive) To go or turn round; to wheel about.
Derived terms[edit]
round off
round out
round up
round down
Translations[edit]
to shape into a curve
Armenian: կլորել (hy) (klorel), կլորացնել (hy) (kloracʿnel)
Czech: zaokrouhlit
Finnish: pyöristää (fi)
Hungarian: lekerekít (hu)
Ido: rondigar (io)
Portuguese: arredondar (pt)
Russian: округля́ть (ru) impf (okrugljátʹ), округли́ть (ru) pf (okruglítʹ), скругля́ть (ru) impf (skrugljátʹ), скругли́ть (ru) pf (skruglítʹ)
Scots: roond
Scottish Gaelic: cruinnich
Slovene: zaobliti
Swedish: runda (sv)
to become shaped into a curve
Finnish: pyöristyä (fi)
Portuguese: arredondar (pt)
to complete, fill out
Czech: zakončit
Finnish: suorittaa (fi), saattaa päätökseen
Italian: riempire (it), completare (it)
Portuguese: concluir (pt), finalizar (pt), terminar (pt), findar (pt), acabar (pt)
Scots: roond
Swedish: runda av (sv)
to approximate a number
Chinese:
Mandarin: 取整 (qǔzhěng), 四捨五入 (zh), 四舍五入 (zh) (sìshěwǔrù)
Czech: zaokrouhlit
Finnish: pyöristää (fi), pyöristyä (fi)
French: arrondir (fr)
Georgian: ამრგვალებს (amrgvalebs)
German: runden (de)
Hungarian: kerekít (hu)
Maori: whakaawhiwhi
Polish: zaokrąglać (pl)
Portuguese: arredondar (pt)
Russian: округля́ть (ru) impf (okrugljátʹ), округли́ть (ru) pf (okruglítʹ)
Scots: roond
Slovene: zaokrožiti
Swedish: avrunda (sv)
to turn past a boundary
Czech: zahnout (cs)
Finnish: kääntyä jonkin ympäri
Galician: montar (gl)
Hungarian: megkerül (hu), befordul (hu)
Maori: tāwhe
Portuguese: dobrar (pt), virar (pt)
Russian: огиба́ть (ru) impf (ogibátʹ), обогну́ть (ru) impf (obognútʹ)
Scots: roond
Swedish: runda (sv)
to turn and attack someone
Czech: vrhnout se (cs)
Finnish: koukata (fi)
Portuguese: virar-se contra
Scots: roond
Swedish: vända (sv)
baseball: to advance to home plate
Finnish: kiertää (fi)
to go round, pass, go past
Finnish: kiertää (fi)
Portuguese: rodar (pt)
See also[edit]
'round
Etymology 2[edit]
From Middle English rounen, from Old English rūnian (“to whisper, talk low, talk secrets, consipre, talk secretly”), from Proto-Germanic *rūnōną (“to talk secrets, whisper, decide”), *raunijaną (“to investigate, examine, prove”), from Proto-Indo-European *(e)rewə-, *(e)rwō- (“to trace, find out, look out”). Cognate with Scots roun (“to converse with in whispers, speak privately”), Middle Low German rūnen (“to whisper”), Middle Dutch ruinen (“to whisper”), German raunen (“to whisper, murmur”), Old English rūn (“whisper, secret, mystery”), Swedish röna (“to meet with, experience”). More at rune.
Verb[edit]
round (third-person singular simple present rounds, present participle rounding, simple past and past participle rounded)
(intransitive, archaic or dialectal, Northern England, Scotland) To speak in a low tone; whisper; speak secretly; take counsel.
(transitive, archaic or dialectal, Northern England, Scotland) To address or speak to in a whisper, utter in a whisper.
(Can we find and add a quotation of Shakespeare to this entry?)
(Can we find and add a quotation of Holland to this entry?)
c. 1617, David Calderwood (quoted as saying to King James VI)
The Bishop of Glasgow rounding in his ear, "Ye are not a wise man,"  […]  he rounded likewise to the bishop, and said, "Wherefore brought ye me here?"
1621, Robert Burton, The Anatomy of Melancholy, I.2.4.IV:
Tiberius the emperor  […]  perceiving a fellow round a dead corse in the ear, would needs know wherefore he did so  […] 
Etymology 3[edit]
From Middle English roun, from Old English rūn (“whisper, secret, mystery”), from Proto-Germanic *rūnō, *raunō (“a whisper, secret, secret sign”), from Proto-Indo-European *(e)rewə-, *(e)rwō- (“to trace, find out, look out”). Cognate with Scots roun, round (“a whisper, secret story”), German raunen (“to whisper, say secretly”), Swedish rön (“findings, observations, experience”).
Noun[edit]
round (plural rounds)
(archaic or dialectal, Northern England, Scotland) A whisper; whispering.
(archaic or dialectal, Northern England, Scotland) Discourse; song.
Anagrams[edit]
Duron
French[edit]
Etymology[edit]
Borrowed from English round.
Pronunciation[edit]
IPA(key): /ʁund/
Noun[edit]
round m (plural rounds)
(sports, chiefly boxing) round
Synonym: tour
2015,  “Bonjour”, performed by Emicida ft. Féfé:Trop de parents qu’ont pas un rond / Trop de casaniers qui tiendront pas un round de plus(please add an English translation of this quote)
Italian[edit]
Etymology[edit]
From English round.
Noun[edit]
round m (invariable)
(sports) round
round (session or series)
Portuguese[edit]
Etymology[edit]
Borrowed from English round.
Pronunciation[edit]
(Brazil) IPA(key): /ˈraw̃d͡ʒ/
Noun[edit]
round m (plural rounds)
(martial arts) round (segment of a fight)
Synonym: assalto
(figurative) a stage of a dispute, confrontation or other difficult endeavour
Spanish[edit]
Etymology[edit]
From English round.
Pronunciation[edit]
IPA(key): /ˈraund/, [ˈrãũ̯n̪d̪]
Noun[edit]
round m (plural rounds)
(martial arts) round
                                   380 ms       17.8%
    ?                                                                320 ms       15.0%
    pcall                                                            280 ms       13.1%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::gsub                               160 ms        7.5%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::getExpandedArgument                140 ms        6.5%
    (for generator)                                                  140 ms        6.5%
    type                                                              60 ms        2.8%
                                                       60 ms        2.8%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::getExpensiveData                    60 ms        2.8%
    dataWrapper                                           40 ms        1.9%
    [others]                                                         500 ms       23.4%
Number of Wikibase entities loaded: 0/400
-->
Retrieved from "https://en.wiktionary.org/w/index.php?title=round&amp;oldid=60487428"
		Categories: English 1-syllable wordsEnglish terms with IPA pronunciationEnglish terms with audio linksEnglish terms borrowed from Old FrenchEnglish terms derived from Old FrenchEnglish terms derived from LatinEnglish doubletsEnglish lemmasEnglish adjectivesEnglish terms with usage examplesEnglish terms with quotationsen:Phoneticsen:ArchitectureEnglish nounsEnglish countable nounsen:Arten:Sportsen:Video gamesen:Card gamesen:EngineeringEnglish dated termsEnglish terms with archaic sensesen:NauticalEnglish prepositionsEnglish terms with rare sensesEnglish adverbsEnglish uncomparable adverbsEnglish verbsEnglish transitive verbsEnglish intransitive verbsen:Baseballen:MedicineEnglish colloquialismsEnglish terms with obsolete sensesEnglish terms inherited from Middle EnglishEnglish terms derived from Middle EnglishEnglish terms inherited from Old EnglishEnglish terms derived from Old EnglishEnglish terms inherited from Proto-GermanicEnglish terms derived from Proto-GermanicEnglish terms derived from Proto-Indo-EuropeanEnglish dialectal termsNorthern England EnglishScottish EnglishEnglish basic wordsEnglish terms with multiple etymologiesen:Cuts of meaten:Drinkingen:GeometryFrench terms borrowed from EnglishFrench terms derived from EnglishFrench 1-syllable wordsFrench terms with IPA pronunciationFrench lemmasFrench nounsFrench masculine nounsFrench countable nounsfr:Sportsfr:BoxingFrench terms with quotationsFrench twice-borrowed termsItalian terms borrowed from EnglishItalian terms derived from EnglishItalian lemmasItalian nounsItalian countable nounsit:SportsPortuguese terms borrowed from EnglishPortuguese terms derived from EnglishPortuguese terms with IPA pronunciationPortuguese lemmasPortuguese nounsPortuguese irregular nounspt:Martial artsSpanish terms borrowed from EnglishSpanish terms derived from EnglishSpanish terms with IPA pronunciationSpanish lemmasSpanish nounsSpanish countable nounses:Martial artsHidden categories: Requests for review of Arabic translationsRequests for review of Ido translationsRequests for review of Korean translationsRequests for review of Swedish translationsRequests for review of Vietnamese translationsRequests for quotations in EnglishRequests for quotation/HolydayFinnish redlinksFinnish redlinks/tItalian redlinksItalian redlinks/tRequests for translations into KoreanRequests for translations into LaoRequests for translations into ThaiRequests for translations into VietnamesePortuguese redlinksPortuguese redlinks/t+Portuguese redlinks/tRussian redlinksRussian redlinks/t+Proto-Germanic redlinksProto-Germanic redlinks/mProto-Indo-European redlinksProto-Indo-European redlinks/mRequests for quotation/ShakespeareRequests for quotation/HollandRequests for translations of French usage examples
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		EntryDiscussion
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditHistory
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main PageCommunity portalPreferencesRequested entriesRecent changesRandom entryHelpGlossaryDonationsContact us
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
		Print/export
		Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
		In other languages
		العربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoInterlingueÍslenskaItalianoಕನ್ನಡҚазақшаKiswahiliKurdîКыргызчаLatviešuLietuviųLimburgsMagyarMalagasyമലയാളംМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlands日本語Occitanភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣᏣᎳᎩTürkçeاردوTiếng Việt中文
		 This page was last edited on 25 September 2020, at 11:41.
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
		Privacy policy
		About Wiktionary
		Disclaimers
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
