	Synod of Bishops in the Catholic Church
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Advisory body of Catholic bishops for the pope
Part of a series on theCanon law of theCatholic Church
Ius vigens (current law)
1983 Code of Canon Law
Omnium in mentem
Magnum principium
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Ad tuendam fidem
Ex corde Ecclesiae
Indulgentiarum Doctrina
Pastor bonus
Pontificalis Domus
Veritatis gaudium
Custom
Matrimonial nullity trial reforms of Pope Francis
Documents of the Second Vatican Council
Christus Dominus
Lumen gentium
Optatam totius
Orientalium ecclesiarum
Presbyterorum ordinis
Sacrosanctum concilium
Precepts of the Church
Legal historyJus antiquum (c. 33-1140)
Ancient Church Orders
Didache
The Apostolic Constitutions
Canons of the Apostles
Collections of ancient canons
Collectiones canonum Dionysianae
Collectio canonum quadripartita
Collectio canonum Quesnelliana
Collectio canonum Wigorniensis
Decretum Gelasianum
Symmachian forgeries
Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals
Donation of Constantine
Gregorian Reform
Lay investiture controversy
Dictatus papae
Libertas ecclesiae
Plenitudo potestatis
Jus novum (c. 1140-1563)
Corpus Juris Canonici
Decretum Gratiani
Decretist
Canon Episcopi
Margaritae
Jus commune
Decretals of Gregory IX
Decretalist
Regulæ Juris
Extravagantes
Liber Septimus
Jus novissimum (c. 1563-1918)
Council of Trent
Benedictus Deus (Pius IV)
Tametsi
Apostolicae Sedis moderationi
Jus codicis (1918-present)
1917 Code of Canon Law
Ecclesiae Sanctae
1983 Code of Canon Law
Other
Contractum trinius
Papal judge-delegate
Right of option
Oriental law
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Eastern Canonical Reforms of Pius XII
Nomocanon
Archeparchy
Eparchy
Exarchate
Ordinariate for Eastern Catholic faithful
Protosyncellus
Territory dependent on the Patriarch
Liturgical lawLatin Church
General Roman Calendar
Ranking of liturgical days in the Roman Rite
General Instruction of the Roman Missal
Code of Rubrics
Magnum principium
Liturgiam authenticam
Mysterii Paschalis
Sacrosanctum concilium
Tra le sollecitudini
Musicam sacram
Summorum Pontificum
Quattuor abhinc annos
Ecclesia Dei
Red Mass
Holy Day of Obligation
Sacramental law
Communicatio in sacris
Ex opere operato
Omnium in mentem
Valid but illicit
Sacraments
Holy Orders
Impediment (canon law)
Abstemius
Defect of birth
Obligation of celibacy
Nullity of Sacred Ordination
Apostolicae curae
Dimissorial letters
Episcopal Co-Consecrators
Approbation
Confession
Penitential canons
Paenitentiale Theodori
Seal of the Confessional
Internal forum
Note on the importance of the internal forum and the inviolability of the Sacramental Seal
Apostolic Penitentiary
Canon penitentiary
Complicit absolution
Sacramentum Poenitentiae
Eucharist
Eucharistic discipline
Canon 915
Celebret
Mass stipend
Sacramentals
Indulgence
Indulgentiarum doctrina
Sacred places
Altars
Major basilica
Minor basilica
Oratory (chapel)
Sacred times
Feast days
Fast days and abstinence
Paenitemini
Holy day of obligation
Matrimonial law
Canonical form (Latin Church)
Tametsi
Ne Temere
Banns of Marriage
Declaration of Nullity
Dignitas connubii
Matrimonial Nullity Trial Reforms of Pope Francis
Vetitum
Defender of the Bond
Impediments to Marriage
Affinity
Bigamy
Clandestinity
Impediment of crime
Disparity of Cult
Ligamen
Public propriety
Matrimonial Dispensation
Ratum sed non consummatum
Sanatio in radice
Natural marriage
Pauline privilege
Petrine privilege
Supreme authority, particularchurches, and canonical structuresSupreme authority of the Church
Roman Pontiff
College of Bishops
Supra-diocesan/eparchal structures
College of Cardinals
Conference of bishops
Synod of Bishops
Particular churches
Churches sui juris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Local particular churches
Appointment of bishops
Abbacy nullius
Apostolic vicariate
Apostolic vicar
Apostolic administration
Apostolic administrator
Diocese/Archdiocese
Aeque principaliter
Cathedraticum
In persona episcopi
Diocesan Curia
Moderator of the Curia
Chancery
Deanery
Vicar forane
Archeparchy
Eparchy
Eparchal curia
Territory dependent on the Patriarch
Military ordinariate
Mission sui juris
Personal ordinariate
Anglicanorum Coetibus
Juridic persons
Parish
Team of priests in solidum
Collegiate church
Register
Lay trusteeism
Roman Curia
Dicastery
Congregation
Pontifical council
Personal Prelature
Types of membership of Opus Dei
Association of the Christian faithful
Vicar general
Quinquennial visit ad limina
Jurisprudence
Canonical coronation
Canonically crowned images
Computation of time
Custom
Delegata potestas non potest delegari
Derogation
Dispensation
Taxa Innocentiana
Faculty
Indult
Impediment
Interpretation
Pontifical Council for Legislative Texts
Jurisdiction
Peritus
Obreption &amp; subreption
Obrogation
Promulgation
Resignation of the Roman Pontiff
Sede vacante
Simony
Vacatio legis
Valid but illicit
Visitation
Apostolic visitor
Philosophy, theology, and fundamental theory of canon law
Theology
Ecclesiology
Treatise on Law
Determinatio
Temporal goods (property)
Benefice
Cathedraticum
Contract law
Mass stipend
Stole fee
Temporalities
Law of persons
Person (canon law)
Formal act of defection from the Catholic Church
Canonical age
Emancipation
Exemption
Clerics
Secular clergy
Regular clergy
Obligation of celibacy
Clerics and public office
Incardination and excardination
Laicization (dispensation)
Canonical faculties
Office
Canonical provision
Canonical election
Juridic and physical persons
Jus patronatus
Associations of the faithful
Consecrated life
Canonical documents
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Acta Sanctae Sedis
Censor librorum
Imprimatur
Imprimi potest
Notary (canon law)
Protonotary apostolic
Apostolic constitution
Canon
Concordat
Decree
Decretal
Encyclical
Motu proprio
Ordinance
Papal brief
Papal bull
Penitential
Positive law
Rescript
Parish register
Ecclesiastical Latin
Penal law
Canon 1324
Canon 1398
Censure (canon law)
De delictis gravioribus
Complicit absolution
Crimen sollicitationis
Excommunication
List of excommunicable offences in the Catholic Church
List of people excommunicated by the Catholic Church
List of excommunicated cardinals
Interdict
Internal forum
Laicization (penal)
Latae sententiae
Lifetime of prayer and penance
Canonical admonitions
Ecclesiastical prison
Procedural lawPars statica (tribunals &amp; ministers/parties)
Tribunals
Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura
Tribunal of the Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith
Ministers of Justice
Judicial Vicar/Officialis
Auditor
Parties
Defender of the Bond
Procurator
Pars dynamica (trial procedure)
Dignitas connubii (matrimonial causes)
Appeal as from an abuse
Presumption
Penal procedure
Vos estis lux mundi
Canonization
Congregation for the Causes of Saints
Maiorem hac dilectionem
Advocatus Diaboli
Oblatio vitae
Positio
Beatification and canonization process in 1914
Election of the Roman Pontiff
Current law
Universi Dominici gregis
Papal renunciation
Reforms of Pope Benedict XVI
Historical
Cum proxime
Jus exclusivae
Papal appointment
Aeterni Patris Filius
Romano Pontifici eligendo
Ingravescentem aetatem
Ubi periculum
Quia propter
Legal practice and scholarship
List of legal abbreviations
Academic degrees
Licentiate of Canon Law
Doctor of Canon Law
Doctor of both laws
Journals and Professional Societies
Canon Law Society of America
The Jurist
Faculties of canon law
School of Canon Law
Canonists
Medieval
Gratian
Hostiensis
Jean Lemoine
Raymond of Penyafort
Rufinus
Johannes Teutonicus
Geoffrey of Trani
Burchard of Worms
Brocard
Modern &amp; Contemporary
Eugenio Corecco
John D. Faris
Pietro Gasparri
Ladislas Orsy
Edward N. Peters
Law of consecrated life
Solemn vow
Exclaustration
Manifestation of Conscience
Canonical erection of a house of religious
Pontifical right
Diocesan right
Congregation for Institutes of Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life
Institute of consecrated life
Religious institute
Congregation
Order
Monasticism
Canons regular
Mendicant orders
Clerics regular
Secular institute
Cum Sanctissimus
Primo Feliciter
Provida Mater Ecclesia
Society of apostolic life
Decretum laudis
 Catholicism portalvte
In the Catholic Church, the Synod of Bishops, considered as an advisory body for the pope, is one of the ways in which the bishops render cooperative assistance to the Bishop of Rome in exercising his office.[1] It is described in the Code of Canon Law (CIC) as "a group of bishops who have been chosen from different regions of the world and meet together at fixed times to foster closer unity between the Roman Pontiff and bishops, to assist the Roman Pontiff with their counsel in the preservation and growth of faith and morals and in the observance and strengthening of ecclesiastical discipline, and to consider questions pertaining to the activity of the Church in the world."[2]
In addition, each patriarchal church and each major archiepiscopal church within the Catholic Church has its own synod of bishops. Unlike the body that normally assists the pope only by offering advice, these synods of bishops are competent, and exclusively so, to make laws for the entire sui iuris church that each governs.[3] The Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches makes mention 115 times of the "synod of bishops" in this sense and only once (canon 46) mentions the synod of bishops that the pope convokes.
These synods of bishops are not what in Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches are called Holy Synods. The latter concept corresponds instead to that of the standing synod of these Catholic synods of bishops, which consists of the patriarch or major archbishop and four bishops appointed for a five-year term. Of the four, three are elected by the church's synod of bishops and one is appointed by the patriarch or major archbishop, while another four are designated in the same way to replace any member who is impeded.[4] A meeting of a whole synod of bishops is called when a decision is required on a question that only the synod of bishops is authorized to decide, or when the patriarch or major archbishop, with the agreement of the standing synod, judges it to be necessary, or when at least one third of the bishops request that it be held to consider some specific matter. In addition, the individual canon law of some patriarchal and major archiepiscopal churches requires that the synod of bishops be convoked at predetermined intervals.[5]
The papal Synod of Bishops is permanent, even when not in session.[6][7] Periodically, it holds assemblies, which are either general, if called to consider matters directly concerning the universal Church, or special, if called for problems of a particular geographical area.[8]  The general assemblies are either ordinary (held at fixed intervals) or extraordinary (held to treat of some urgent matter).[9]
The papal Synod of Bishops also has a permanent secretariat[10] headquartered in Rome but is not part of the Roman Curia.[11] Pope Francis greatly increased both the authority and influence of the Synod in September 2018.[12]
Contents
1 Establishment and nature
1.1 Under John Paul II
1.2 Under Benedict XVI
1.3 Under Francis
2 Secretariat and Council
2.1 Secretaries-General of the Synod of Bishops
3 Powers of the pope
4 Assemblies
4.1 Ordinary general assemblies
4.2 Extraordinary general assemblies
4.3 Special assemblies
5 Chronology
5.1 Ordinary General
5.2 Extraordinary General
5.3 Special
6 See also
7 Notes
8 References
8.1 Citations
8.2 Sources
Establishment and nature[edit]
In 1959, three years before the Second Vatican Council began, Cardinal Silvio Oddi proposed a permanent consultative body of bishops drawn from many parts of the world to discuss major concerns of the Church, and Cardinal Bernardus Johannes Alfrink proposed a permanent council of specialized bishops to legislate for the Church in union with the Pope and the cardinals.[13]
Within the framework of the Council itself, the first to put forward "the idea of a 'permanent synod of bishops' surrounding the pope" was Melkite Patriarch Maximos IV.[14] In 1963, during the third session of the Council, he proposed that "a relatively small group of bishops [...] with rotating membership would always be in session in Rome to assist the pope. They would work with the pope in collegial fashion".[15]  The model he proposed was what the 1990 Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches was to call the synod of bishops,[16] but that he himself called the holy synod of his sui iuris church,[14] a collegial body comprising both the patriarch and other bishops
On 14 September 1965, at the opening of the fourth and final session of the Council, Pope Paul VI announced that on the following day he was to establish the Synod of Bishops in a form that "could hardly have been further from what Maximos had proposed in the previous year".[17] He noted that "the Ecumenical Council ... gave Us the idea of permanently establishing a special Council of bishops, with the aim of providing for a continuance after the Council of the great abundance of benefits that We have been so happy to see flow to the Christian people during the time of the Council as a result of Our close collaboration with the bishops."[18] The Pope sought "to make ever greater use of the bishops' assistance in providing for the good of the universal Church" and to enjoy "the consolation of their presence, the help of their wisdom and experience, the support of their counsel, and the voice of their authority."[18] This preempted action by the Council and made the Synod "immediately and directly" subject to papal authority, ensuring that it would be strictly an advisory body.[19] The Synod of the Bishops does not constitute collegial governance of the Church, but represents a collaboration with the Pope: it discusses topics proposed to it and makes recommendations, but does not settle questions or issue decrees, unless the Pope grants it deliberative power in certain cases.[20]
Under John Paul II[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (May 2019)
Under Benedict XVI[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (May 2019)
Under Francis[edit]
See also: Theology of Pope Francis § Decentralization
From the beginning of his papacy, Pope Francis expressed his desire to strengthen the collegial aspects of the Church's governance,[21] and he argued for more recognition of charismatic gifts in the Church.[22] He has held major synods on the topics of the family (2014), on youth (2018), and on the Church in the Pan-Amazon region (2019). On September 15, 2018, Francis approved the new apostolic constitution Episcopalis communio (Episcopal Communion).[12][23] The constitution states that the Synod's final document, if approved by the members with "moral unanimity" and, if the Pope has "granted deliberative power to the Synod Assembly," it becomes part of the Ordinary Magisterium of Catholic teaching "once it has been ratified and promulgated by him."[24] The new constitution also provides for the laity to send their contributions directly to the synod's secretary general.[25][23] Some analysts surmise that the greatest achievement of Francis' papacy may be his creation of a more synodal Catholic church, where synods serve as a platform for open and energetic debate.[26]
Secretariat and Council[edit]
The Synod of the Bishops has its own permanent general secretariat, composed of the General Secretary and a fifteen-member council, twelve of whom are elected by each general assembly and three are appointed by the Pope. The secretariat assists in preparing the apostolic exhortation which the Pope publishes on the basis of the recommendations of each general assembly, and it prepares the next assembly.  Their function ceases with the start of a new general assembly. A similar function is performed by specific special councils elected by the special assemblies.[27][28][11]
Secretaries-General of the Synod of Bishops[edit]
Wladyslaw Rubin (27 February 1967 – 12 July 1979)
Jozef Tomko (12 July 1979 – 24 April 1985)
Jan Pieter Schotte, C.I.C.M. (24 April 1985 – 11 February 2004)
Nikola Eterović (11 February 2004 – 21 September 2013)[29]
Lorenzo Baldisseri (21 September 2013[29]  – 15 September 2020)[30]
Mario Grech (15 September 2020[30] – present)
Powers of the pope[edit]
The pope convokes the Synod of Bishops; ratifies the election of participants; determines the topic of discussion; distributes the material for discussion; sets the agenda; and presides either personally or through delegates.[31]
The pope may also appoint participants of his own choosing, their number limited to 15% of the other delegates who participate either ex officio or as elected representatives of episcopal conferences or the Union of Superiors General.[32]
Assemblies[edit]
The procedures followed at assemblies of the Synod of the Bishops are indicated in the Order of the Synod of Bishops, originally issued in 1969, the latest revision of which was published on 29 September 2006.[33]
Ordinary general assemblies[edit]
In preparation for each ordinary general assembly, episcopal conferences are asked to suggest up to three themes for discussion. After the secretariat has studied those proposals, the Pope, generally on the basis of the secretariat's recommendation, establishes the topic and agenda of the assembly. Criteria for the choice of the topic are: 1) that it be of universal, not merely regional, interest; 2) that it be pastoral in character with a firm doctrinal base; 3) that it be contemporary and urgent enough to stir up "new energies and movements in the church towards growth"; 4) that it can be addressed within the allotted time.[28][34]
Most participants in the assembly, called Synodal fathers, are elected by the bishops' conferences: one in the case of a conference with no more than 25 members, two if a conference has up to 50 members, three from a conference with up to 100 members, and four from a larger conference.[35]  Other representative participants include heads of Eastern Catholic Churches, ten members of religious institutes elected by the Union of Superiors General, and the cardinals who head the Roman Congregations and some other departments of the Roman Curia.[36] Dozens more participate by virtue of synodal functions assigned by the Holy See or as papal appointees, mostly cardinals and other curiate or diocesan prelates.
Fraternal delegates from several Orthodox and Protestant churches (7 each in 2015) have observer status.[37]
The secretariat, which includes various other clerical and lay experts, prepares a preliminary outline document (Lineamenta) which is distributed to all concerned for comment. Based on this feedback, a working document (instrumentum laboris) is prepared and distributed to all churches. This document is the basis for discussions at the synod. The assembly examines proposals (propositiones) put forward by its members and passes to the Pope those that receive the assembly's approval. The Pope uses these as the basis for a papal post-synodal apostolic exhortation.[38]
The first general assemblies attempted to draw up their own concluding documents, but found that the time available was insufficient for doing so properly.
Extraordinary general assemblies[edit]
In view of the greater urgency that justify their convocation, the preparation of extraordinary general assemblies of the Synod of the Bishops is shorter. The participants also are fewer, consisting of the heads of Eastern Catholic Churches, the presidents (only) of episcopal conferences, three members (not ten) of religious institutes and the cardinals who head dicasteries of the Roman Curia.[39]
As of October 2014[update], there have been three such assemblies, in 1969, 1985, and 2014.
Special assemblies[edit]
Special assemblies of the Synod of the Bishops are limited to a certain geographical area, a country, region, or continent. Their participants, chosen in line with the rules for extraordinary general assemblies, are limited to those directly involved in that geographical area.
Special assemblies have been held for Africa (twice), America, Asia, Europe (twice), Oceania, the Middle East, Lebanon, and the Netherlands. Another is planned for the Amazon region.
Chronology[edit]
The Synod of the Bishops has held the following assemblies:[7][40]
Ordinary General[edit]
Year
Number
Topic
Concluding document or apostolic exhortation
1967
I
Preserving and Strengthening the Catholic Faith
None. Called for the creation of an International Theological Commission and a revision of the Code of Canon Law.
1971
II
The Ministerial Priesthood and Justice in the World
Justice in the World[41][42]
1974
III
Evangelization in the Modern World
Evangelii nuntiandi (apostolic exhortation)[43][a]
1977
IV
Catechesis in Our Time
Catechesi Tradendae (apostolic exhortation)[46]
1980
V
The Christian Family
Familiaris consortio (apostolic exhortation)[47][48]
1983
VI
Penance and Reconciliation in the Mission of the Church
Reconciliatio et paenitentia (apostolic exhortation)[49]
1987
VII
The Vocation and Mission of the Lay Faithful in the Church and in the World
Christifideles laici (apostolic exhortation)[50]
1990
VIII
The Formation of Priests in Circumstances of the Present Day
Pastores dabo vobis(apostolic exhortation)[51]
1994
IX
The Consecrated Life and its Role in the Church and in the World
Vita consecrata[52]
2001
X
The Bishop: Servant of the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the Hope of the World
Pastores gregis (apostolic exhortation)[53]
2005
XI
The Eucharist: Source and Summit of the Life and Mission of the Church
Sacramentum caritatis (apostolic exhortation) [54]
2008
XII
The Word of God in the Life and Mission of the Church
Verbum Domini (apostolic exhortation)[55]
2012
XIII
The New Evangelization for the Transmission of the Christian Faith
Evangelii gaudium (apostolic exhortation)[56]
2015
XIV
The Vocation and Mission of the Family in the Church and in the Contemporary World
* Relatio Synodi[57]
*Amoris laetitia (apostolic exhortation)[58]
2018
XV
Young People, Faith, and Vocational Discernment
Christus Vivit (apostolic exhortation)[59]
Extraordinary General[edit]
Year
Number
Topic
Concluding document or apostolic exhortation
1969
I
Cooperation between the Holy See and the Episcopal Conferences[60]
1985
II
The Twentieth Anniversary of the Conclusion of the Second Vatican Council[60]
The Church, in the Word of God, Celebrates the Mysteries of Christ for the Salvation of the World, Rome.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
2014
III
The Pastoral Challenges of the Family in the Context of Evangelization[60]
*Relatio Synodi of the III Extraordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops: "Pastoral Challenges to the Family in the Context of Evangelization", Rome
Special[edit]
Year
Topic
Concluding document or apostolic exhortation
1980
Netherlands
John Paul II, Pope (30 January 1980), Conclusions of the Special Synod of the Bishops of the Netherlands, Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1991
Europe
1994
Africa
——— (14 September 1995), Ecclesia in Africa (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1995
Lebanon
——— (10 May 1997), Ecclesia in Libanon (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1997
America
——— (22 November 1999), Ecclesia in America (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1998
Asia[b]
——— (6 November 1999), Ecclesia in Asia (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1998
Oceania
——— (6 November 1999), Ecclesia in Oceania (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
1999
Europe
——— (28 June 2003), Ecclesia in Europa (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
2009
Africa
Benedict XVI, Pope (19 November 2011), Africae munus (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
2010
Middle East
——— (9 September 2012), Ecclesia in Medio Oriente (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
2019
Pan-Amazon region[62][63]
(2 February 2020), Querida Amazonia (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
See also[edit]
Collegiality (Catholic Church)
College of Bishops
Synod
Notes[edit]
^ The Synod participants, divided in interests and philosophies, had problems producing a report of their discussions to submit to Pope Paul,[44] and he disputed much of their contributions.[45]
^ The synod devoted to Asia provoked a very critical response from the bishops of Japan.[61]
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ [Code of Canon Law, canon 334
^ CIC 1983, Canon 342].
^ Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, canon 110
^ Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, canon 115
^ Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, canon 106
^ Paul VI 1965, I.
^ a b "Summary of the synod assemblies", Synodal Information, Vatican City: General Secretariat of the Synod of Bishops, 15 September 2007.
^ CIC 1983, Canon 345.
^ CIC 1983, Canon 346.
^ CIC 1983, Canon 348.
^ a b Okoye 2011, p. 17.
^ a b Pentin, Edward (18 September 2018). "Pope Francis Boosts Authority of the Synod of Bishops". National Catholic Register. Retrieved 21 May 2019.
^ "The Synod of Bishops: An Introduction". Vatican City. Retrieved 27 September 2020.
^ a b The Melkite Church at the Council: Discourses and Memoranda of Patriarch Maximos IV and of the Hierarchs of His Church at the Second Vatican Council. Introduction by Archimandrite Robert F. Taft. Preface by Maximos IV (second-last page of the Preface)
^ John W. O'Malley. What Happened at Vatican II. Harvard University Press; May 2010. ISBN 978-0-674-04749-5. p. 191.
^ Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, canon 110
^ John W. O'Malley. What Happened at Vatican II. Harvard University Press; May 2010. ISBN 978-0-674-04749-5. p. 253.
^ a b Paul VI 1965, Introduction.
^ O'Malley S. J., John W. (2008), What Happened at Vatican II (Kindle ed.), Cambridge, Massachusetts: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, loc. 5037-5058, ISBN 978-0-674-03169-2, Whatever the merits of Apostolica Sollicitudo, it was an expression of papal primacy, not of collegiality, a word never mentioned in the text. It was a preemptive strike by the center.
^ CIC 1983, Canon 343.
^ "Pope says structures for collaboration, collegiality need strengthening". National Catholic Reporter. 13 June 2013. Retrieved 5 June 2017.
^ "Pope's Address to Congregation for Doctrine of the Faith". Zenit. Retrieved 5 June 2017.
^ a b Brockhaus, Hannah (18 September 2018). "Pope Francis approves new constitution for Synod of Bishops". Catholic News Agency. Retrieved 21 May 2019.
^ Francis 2018, Art. 18.
^ Francis 2018, Art. 7.
^ Mitchell, Charlotte. "Pope Francis, everyman pontiff: Profile". www.aljazeera.com. Retrieved 5 February 2020.
^ CIC 1983, Canon 348 §1.
^ a b Notes on the Synodal Process, Vatican City: General Secretariat of the Synod of Bishops, 15 September 2007.
^ a b Coday, Denis (21 September 2013). "Vatican announces curial appointments". National Catholic Reporter. Retrieved 18 September 2020.
^ a b "Resignations and Appointments, 16.09.2020" (Press release). Holy See Press Office. 16 September 2020. Retrieved 16 September 2020.
^ Paul VI 1965, III.
^ Paul VI 1965, X.
^ Ordo Synodi Episcoporum [The order of the Synod of Bishops], Vatican City: General Secretariat of the Synod of Bishops, 15 September 2007.
^ Hinze, Bradford E (2006), Practices of dialogue in the Roman Catholic Church, Continuum, p. 161, ISBN 978-0-8264-1721-3.
^ Paul VI 1965, VIII.
^ Paul VI 1965, V.
^ Scammell, Rosie (22 October 2015). "Who's that bright Anglican outsider at Vatican bishops' synod?". National Catholic Reporter. Religion News Service. Retrieved 25 October 2015.
^ Okoye 2011, pp. 19–21.
^ Paul VI 1965, VI.
^ Okoye 2011, pp. 18–19.
^ Justice in the World, Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Fiske, Edward B. (4 November 1971). "Synod of Bishops Affirms Celibacy Rule for Priests". New York Times. Retrieved 27 April 2018.
^ Pope Paul VI (8 December 1975), Evangelii nuntiandi (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Shenker, Israel (23 October 1974). "Bishops Reject Synod Report As Largely Lacking Substance". New York Times. Retrieved 23 October 2017.
^ "The Bishops Rebuffed". New York Times. 28 October 1974. Retrieved 26 October 2017.
^ Pope John Paul II, Catechesi tradendae (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope John Paul II (22 November 1981), Familiaris consortio (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ O'Riordan, Seán (1980). "The Synod on the Family, 1980". The Furrow. 31 (12): 759–777. JSTOR 27661042.
^ Pope John Paul II (2 December 1984), Reconciliatio et paenitentia (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope John Paul II (30 December 1988), Christifideles laici (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope John Paul II (25 March 1992), Pastores dabo vobis (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope John Paul II (25 March 1996), Vita consecrata (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope John Paul II (16 October 2003), Pastores gregis (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope Benedict XVI (22 February 2007), Sacramentum caritatis (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope Benedict XVI (30 September 2010), Verbum Domini (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ Pope Francis (24 November 2013), Evangelii gaudium (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ "Relatio Synodi of the XIV Ordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops: "The Vocation and Mission of the Family in the Church and in the Contemporary World"". Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ Pope Francis (19 March 2016), Amoris laetitia: on love in the family (PDF) (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana, ISBN 978-88-209-9786-1
^ Francis, Pope (25 March 2019), Christus Vivit (Apostolic exhortation), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana
^ a b c Dias, Elizabeth (8 October 2013). "Pope Francis Calls Extraordinary Synod on Family and Marriage". Time Magazine. Retrieved 8 October 2013. ...the Vatican announced [...] Pope Francis will host an Extraordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops to discuss [...] 'The Pastoral Challenges of the Family in the Context of Evangelization.'  The meeting will take place in Rome, October 5–14, 2014...
^ Allen Jr., John L. (19 December 2018). "When pope goes to Japan, there'll be a big dog that won't bark". Crux. Retrieved 21 May 2019.
^ San Martín, Inés (15 October 2017). "Pope announces Synod of Bishops for Pan-Amazon region". CRUX. Retrieved 18 October 2017.
^ Brockhaus, Hannah (15 October 2017). "Pope announces special 2019 Synod of Bishops on South American region". Catholic News Agency. Retrieved 18 October 2017.
Sources[edit]
.mw-parser-output .refbegin{font-size:90%;margin-bottom:0.5em}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul{list-style-type:none;margin-left:0}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>ul>li,.mw-parser-output .refbegin-hanging-indents>dl>dd{margin-left:0;padding-left:3.2em;text-indent:-3.2em;list-style:none}.mw-parser-output .refbegin-100{font-size:100%}
Code of Canon Law (CIC), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana, 4 November 2003 [1983].
Paul VI, Pope (15 September 1965), Apostolica sollicitudo (motu proprio), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana.
Francis, Pope (18 September 2018), Episcopalis communio (apostolic constitution), Rome: Libreria Editrice Vaticana.
Okoye, James Chukwuma (2011). Scripture in the Church: The Synod on the Word of God and the Post-Synodal Exhortation Verbum Domini. Liturgical Press. ISBN 978-0-8146-8026-1.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link)
vteRoman Curia of the Holy SeeDicasteriesSecretariatesSecretariat of State
Cardinal Secretary of State
Latin Letters Office
Secretary for Relations with States
Secretariat for the Economy
Council for the Economy
Peter's Pence
Congregations(Advocates)
Doctrine of the Faith
Archive
Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments
Evangelization of Peoples
Causes of Saints
Bishops
Clergy
Oriental Churches
Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life
Catholic Education
Tribunals
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Roman Rota
1983 Code of Canon Law
Councils
Christian Unity
Legislative Texts
Interreligious Dialogue
Culture
New Evangelization
Offices
Apostolic Camera
Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Departments
Laity, Family and Life
Integral Human Development
Communications
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
L'Osservatore Romano
Vatican Polyglot Press
Vatican Publishing House
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Vatican News App
Pope2you
Institutes
Prefecture of the Papal Household
Office for the Liturgical Celebrations of the Supreme Pontiff
Commissions
Sacred Archaeology
Biblical
International Theological
For the Catechism
For Vatican City State · For Latin America
Disciplinary of the Roman Curia
For the Protection of Minors
Committees
Historical Sciences
International Eucharistic Congresses
Academies
Arcadia
Alphonsian
 Ecclesiastical
Fine Arts and Letters of the Virtuosi al Pantheon
Sciences
Theology
Archaeology
Martyrs
Saint Thomas Aquinas
Immaculate Conception
Mary
Life
Social Sciences
Latin
OtherInstitutions
College of Cardinals
Vatican Library
Archives
Film
Agenzia Fides
.va
Fabric of Saint Peter
St. Peter's Basilica
Office of Papal Charities
Peregrinatio ad Petri Sedem
Vatican Observatory
Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music
Agency for the Evaluation and Promotion of Qualityin Ecclesiastical Universities and Faculties
Organisations
Institute for the Works of Religion
Financial Information Authority
Labour Office of the Apostolic See
Synod of Bishops in the Catholic Church
Swiss Guard
Council of Cardinal Advisers
Diocese of Rome
Vicar General for Vatican City
Vicar General for the Diocese of Rome
Vice-President of the Diocese of Rome
Roman pilgrimage work
RomaSette
History
Roman Inquisition (16th century)
Immensa Aeterni Dei (1588)
Reform by Paul VI (1967)
Reform by John Paul II (1988)
Formerdicasteries
Congregation for Borders
Congregation of Ceremonies
Sacred Congregation of the Index
Congregation of the Vatican Press
Sacred Congregation of the Consulta
Sacred Congregation of Rites
Apostolic Chancery
Apostolic Dataria
Secretariate of Briefs to Princes and of Latin Letters
Special Administration of the Holy See
Pontifical Commission for the Cultural Heritage of the Church
Pontifical Commission Ecclesia Dei
Pontifical Council for Social Communications
Pontifical Council for the Family
Pontifical Council for the Laity
Cor Unum
Justice and Peace
Pastoral Care of Migrants and Itinerant People
Pastoral Assistance to Health Care Workers
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vtePapacyEpiscopate of the bishop of RomeJurisdictionHoly See(Full communion)
Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Primacy
History
Vatican City (Index, Outline)
enclaved in Rome, Italy
Lateran Treaty 1929
along with extraterritorial properties of the Holy See
Headquarters
Vatican City:
Apostolic Palace
Papal apartments
Sistine Chapel
Cathedra:
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Major basilicas
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
St. Peter's Basilica
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
TitlesPapal names
His Holiness
Bishop of Rome
Vicar of Jesus Christ
Successor of the Prince of the Apostles
Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church
Patriarch of the West
Primate of Italy
Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province
Sovereign of the Vatican City State
Servant of the servants of God
Symbols
Coats of arms
Coats of arms of the Holy See and Vatican City
Cross
Keys of Heaven
Regalia and insignia
Rota
Umbraculum
Proclamations
Infallibility
Apostolic constitution
Bull
List
Encyclical
Apostolic exhortation
Ecclesiastical letter
Interdict
Activities
Arbitration
Deposition
Blessing
"Pontifical"
Urbi et Orbi
Conclave
List
Coronation
Consistory
Diplomacy
Inauguration
Mass
High Mass
Oath
Travel
Vestments
Camauro
Falda
Fanon
Ferula
Flabellum
Mantle
Mitre
Mozzetta
Pallium
Ring of the Fisherman
Shoes
Slippers
Sub-cinctorium
Tiara
List
Zucchetto
Transportation
Popemobile
Sedia gestatoria
Household
Camerlengo
Commander of the Swiss Guard
Chaplain
Palatinus
Papal majordomo
Gentlemen
Preacher
Prefect
Prelate of Honour
Prince assistant
Theologian
Staff
College of Cardinals
Cardinal
List
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Synods
Cappella Giulia
Sistine Chapel Choir
See also
Papal nobility
"Black"
Orders of chivalry
Pontifical academy
Pontifical university
in Rome
Pontifical colleges in Rome
Major Seminary
Swiss Guard
Papabile
Canonised popes
Legends
 Vatican City portal
 Catholic Church portal
vteHoly See
Apostolic episcopal see of Pope Francis as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Sovereign subject of international law
History
Apostolic see
Primacy of Peter
History of papal primacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Lateran Palace
Museum
Duchy of Rome
Donation of Sutri
Donation of Pepin
Avignon Papacy
Papal States
Temporal power
Investiture Controversy
Age of Revolution
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Savoyard era
Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
World War II
Warsaw Pact
Sovereignsubjectofinternationallaw(Legal status)Officials
Pope Francis
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Cardinals
List
Advisers
Governance
Secretariat of State
College of Cardinals
Papal conclave
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Foreign affairs(Multilateral policy)
Section for Relations with States
To the Holy See
Of the Holy See
Heads
Italy
United Nations
Permanent Observer
in Geneva
European Union
Permanent Observer to the Council of Europe
Apostolic Nunciature
Nuncio
Treaties
Concordats
Dioceseof Romewith  universalfull communion(Papal primacy)Synods
Ordinary general assemblies
Extraordinary general assemblies
Special assemblies
Ecclesiasticalprovince of Rome(Vicariate: Rome,Vatican City)Suburbicarian sees
Ostia
Velletri-Segni
Porto-Santa Rufina
Frascati
Palestrina
Albano
Sabina-Poggio Mirteto
Territorial abbeys
Montecassino
Subiaco
Suffragan dioceses
Gaeta
Anagni-Alatri
Civita Castellana
Civitavecchia-Tarquinia
Frosinone-Veroli-Ferentino
Latina-Terracina-Sezze-Priverno
Rieti
Sora-Cassino-Aquino-Pontecorvo
Tivoli
Viterbo
Propertiesincludingextra-territorialityInsideRome
Major basilicas
St. Peter's Basilica
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Basilica of Saint Mary Major
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Lateran Palace
Lateran University
Scala Sancta
Adjoining buildings
Palace of Saint Callixtus
Gianicolo Hill area
Pontifical Urban University
Pontifical North American College
Bambino Gesù Hospital
Palazzo della Cancelleria
Palace of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples
Palace of the Holy Office
Palace of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches
Palazzo Pio
Palace of the Vicariate
Pontifical Minor Roman Seminary
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Benedictine monastery
Pontifical Oratory of San Paolo
Beda College
Paul VI Audience Hall
Non-extraterritorial
Palace of the Holy Apostles
Palace of San Carlo ai Catinari
Collegio Bellarmino
Archaeological Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pontifical Lombard Seminary
Russian College
Two Palaces of Sant'Apollinare
House of Retreat for the Clergy of Saints John and Paul
Nympheum of Nero
OutsideRome
Papal Palace of Castel Gandolfo
Papal farm
Gardens of the Villa Cybo
Villa Barberini
Adjacent gardens
Summer estate of Pontificio Collegio Urbano de Propaganda Fide
Vatican Radio antennae area of Santa Maria di Galeria
Non-extraterritorial
Basilica of the Holy House
Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua
See also
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Awards
Papal household
Peter's Pence
Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Swiss Guard
 Vatican City portal
 Catholicism portal
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Synod_of_Bishops_in_the_Catholic_Church&amp;oldid=981352855"
		Categories: Synod of bishops in the Catholic Church20th-century Catholicism21st-century CatholicismCanonical structuresHidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodicalArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from October 2017Articles to be expanded from May 2019All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesArticles containing potentially dated statements from October 2014All articles containing potentially dated statementsCS1 maint: ref=harv
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		AsturianuČeštinaDeutschEspañolEsperantoFrançaisHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoKiswahiliLietuviųMagyarNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 October 2020, at 20:02 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
