	University of Oxford in popular culture
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		The University of Oxford is the setting for numerous works of fiction. Quickly becoming part of the cultural imagination, Oxford was mentioned in fiction as early as 1400 when Chaucer in his Canterbury Tales referred to a "Clerk [student] of Oxenford": "For him was levere have at his beddes heed/ Twenty bookes, clad in blak or reed,/ of Aristotle and his philosophie/ Than robes riche, or fithele, or gay sautrie". By 1989, 533 Oxford-based novels had been identified, and the number continues to rise.[1]
Contents
1 In literature
2 In poetry
3 In films
4 In television
5 In video games
6 In other media
7 See also
8 References
In literature[edit]
Main article: Literature in Oxford
Literary works include:
"Lot No. 249," a short story by Arthur Conan Doyle
Gaudy Night, a Lord Peter Wimsey mystery by Dorothy L. Sayers (who was herself a graduate of Somerville); and a sequel The Late Scholar. Mainly set in Shrewsbury College, based on Somerville College, Sayers' old college.[2]
Brideshead Revisited by Evelyn Waugh is set in Oxford, where main characters read history at Hertford College and Christ Church respectively.
A Staircase in Surrey, a quintet of novels by J. I. M. Stewart.
A series of whodunnits by Veronica Stallwood, including Oxford Blue, Oxford Exit, etc.
The His Dark Materials trilogy of Philip Pullman (alternative reality)
The Reluctant Cannibals by Ian Flitcroft
The Inspector Morse series by Colin Dexter is set in Oxford and frequently refers to the University (although most of the college names are fictional).
An Instance of the Fingerpost by Iain Pears
Where the Rivers Meet, a trilogy of novels by John Wain
Loss and Gain, by John Henry Newman
The Bone Season book and series by Samantha Shannon takes place in a dystopian, ruined Oxford. The names of the colleges are used as house names.
Tom Brown at Oxford, by Thomas Hughes
Zuleika Dobson, by Max Beerbohm
Michaelmas Term at St Bride's, by Philip Larkin, "St Bride's" is recognisably based on Somerville College.[3]
Jill, by Philip Larkin
Doomsday Book, To Say Nothing of the Dog, Blackout/All Clear, and the short story Fire Watch, by Connie Willis
Accident, by Nicholas Mosley; the novel served as the basis for the film of the same name, which is mentioned below
Testament of Youth, memoir of Somerville alumna Vera Brittain.
The Soulbane Stratagem, by Norman Jetmundsen; set at Magdalen College in Oxford
The Children of Men, by P. D. James, has a protagonist, Dr Theo Faron, who is an Oxford don and much of the first half of the novel is set in Oxford, frequently describing the surroundings of the University and town.
The Great Gatsby, by F. Scott Fitzgerald; refers to Trinity Quad at Trinity College and Merton College Library at Merton College
Not a penny more not a penny less, by Jeffrey Archer; An important part of the novel is set at Oxford on the day of Encaenia.
Endymion Spring, by Matthew Skelton set in St Jerome's College on St Giles', based on Somerville College, Skelton's alma mater.
A Discovery of Witches by Deborah Harkness; refers to Bodleian Library.
Fictional universities based on Oxford include Terry Pratchett's Unseen University and "Christminster" in Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure.
For a list of fictional colleges of the University of Oxford, see List of fictional Oxford colleges.
In poetry[edit]
Many poets have also been inspired by the University:
The Oxford Sausage was an anthology published in 1764 and edited by Thomas Warton. The Glamour of Oxford (1911) is a collection of verse and prose edited by William Angus Knight, and another anthology — Seccombe and Scott's In Praise of Oxford (1912) — spans two volumes. More recent compilations include Oxford and Oxfordshire in Verse (1983) and Oxford in Verse (1999) (see 'Further Reading').
'Duns Scotus' Oxford' is one of Gerard Manley Hopkins' better-known poems.
In films[edit]
Films set in the University include:
Charley's Aunt (1925) starring Syd Chaplin
Charley's Aunt (1930) starring Charles Ruggles
A Yank at Oxford (1938) starring Robert Taylor and Vivien Leigh
A Chump at Oxford (1940) starring Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy
Charley's (Big-Hearted) Aunt (1940) starring Arthur Askey
Charley's Aunt (1941) starring Jack Benny
The Adventures of Mark Twain (1944) starring Fredric March
Alice in Wonderland (1949)
Where's Charley? (1952) starring Ray Bolger
Accident (1967), film about an Oxford don, co-written by Harold Pinter
Sebastian (1968), film about an Oxford don, who runs the decoding section of British Intelligence in the late 60s
Incense for the Damned (1972), starring Peter Cushing, Patrick Macnee and Edward Woodward (based on the novel Doctors Wear Scarlet by Simon Raven)
Oxford Blues (1984), starring Rob Lowe, Ally Sheedy and Amanda Pays
American Friends (1991), starring Michael Palin
Shadowlands (1993), starring Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger, about the life of C. S. Lewis
The Madness of King George (1994), with Nigel Hawthorne
Tom &amp; Viv (1994), a film which explores the troubled relationship between T. S. Eliot (played by Willem Dafoe) and his mentally ill wife Vivienne Haigh-Wood (Miranda Richardson)
True Blue (1996), about the mutiny at the time of the Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race of 1987
Tomorrow Never Dies (1997), a James Bond sequel starring Pierce Brosnan (Bond returns to Oxford to brush up on his Danish.)
The Saint (1997), film starring Val Kilmer as the sleuth Simon Templar
Wilde (1997), film about the outlandish playwright starring Stephen Fry, Jude Law and Vanessa Redgrave
The Red Violin (1998), the violin arrives in Oxford after being given to an English lord
Iris (2001), starring Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent and Kate Winslet, about the life of Iris Murdoch. Set at Somerville College.
National Lampoon's Van Wilder 2: Rise of Taj (2006), under the name of "Camford"
What A Girl Wants (2003), movie about a vivacious teenager called Daphne who goes to visit her father in London, only to learn he is a lord. Eventually she attends Oxford University, just like her father.
New York Minute (2004), A teenage girl goes through hurdles to obtain a scholarship to Oxford.
The Oxford Murders (2007) starring Elijah Wood and John Hurt.
Blue Blood (2007)
The Golden Compass (2007)
The History Boys (2008) movie about a group of boys applying to do history at Oxford and Cambridge. Set in 1983 and based on the play by Alan Bennett.
An Education (2009)
X-Men: First Class (2011)
The Riot Club (2014)
Testament of Youth (2014), drama film based on the memoir of the same name written by Somerville alumna Vera Brittain.
Tolkien (2019), movie about J. R. R Tolkien's youth
This list does not include movies in which university buildings appeared as a backdrop but were not depicted as the University of Oxford, such as the Harry Potter films and the earlier Young Sherlock Holmes.
In television[edit]
Law and Order: Criminal Intent - Recurring character Nicole Wallace is a visiting lecturer from Oxford.
Lewis - set in Oxford.
Inspector Morse - set in Oxford.
Endeavour - set in Oxford.
Lost - character Daniel Faraday is depicted as a student of Oxford, and later a professor of physics at The Queen's College.
Rumpole of the Bailey - Rumpole attended Keble College. His son Nick later studied sociology at Oxford.
The X-Files - male lead Fox Mulder is shown to be a graduate of Oxford.
Yes Minister - Sir Humphrey Appleby, GCB, KBE, MVO, MA (Oxon), attended the fictional Baillie College.
Madam Secretary - Jareth Glover, intended son-in-law of Secretary of State Dr Elizabeth McCord (later potential Vice-President candidate), is expected to take up a fellowship.
Master Keaton - Keaton studied archaeology and his wife was a mathematician at Somerville College.
The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles - young Indy visits Oxford.
A Discovery of Witches (TV series) - At the Bodleian Library, Diana Bishop finds Ashmole 782, an alchemical manuscript she uses for her research. Here she also meets Matthew Clairmont.
Brideshead Revisited (TV serial) - based on Waugh's novel, the miniseries was enormously popular in Britain and America and has sometimes been seen as drawing unwanted attention to Oxford's stereotypical reputation as a playground of the upper classes. It stars Jeremy Irons, and most college shots are of Christ Church and Hertford.
Clone High - includes the character of Doug Prepcourse, a trucker who says he was a Rhodes Scholar
His Dark Materials (TV series) -- the location used for Jordan College is New College, Oxford.
In video games[edit]
The adventure video game Gray Matter takes place in Oxford University.
In Civilization VI appeared as a wonder of the industrial era, featuring the iconic Bridge of Sighs and the Radcliffe Camera.
In other media[edit]
Charley's Aunt, an 1892 farce by Brandon Thomas.
See also[edit]
Inklings
References[edit]
^ Oxford in Fiction: an annotated bibliography, Judy G. Batson
^ Somerville Stories – Dorothy L Sayers Archived 5 October 2013 at the Wayback Machine, Somerville College, University of Oxford, UK.
^ Motion, Andrew: Philip Larkin: A Writer's Life (London: Faber and Faber, 1993), pp. 93–96
vteUniversity of OxfordLeadership
Chancellor: The Lord Patten of Barnes
Vice-Chancellor: Louise Richardson
Registrar
Heads of houses
Colleges
All Souls
Balliol
Brasenose
Christ Church
Corpus Christi
Exeter
Green Templeton
Harris Manchester
Hertford
Jesus
Keble
Kellogg
Lady Margaret Hall
Linacre
Lincoln
Magdalen
Mansfield
Merton
New
Nuffield
Oriel
Pembroke
The Queen's
Reuben
St Anne's
St Antony's
St Catherine's
St Cross
St Edmund Hall
St Hilda's
St Hugh's
St John's
St Peter's
Somerville
Trinity
University
Wadham
Wolfson
Worcester
Permanent private halls
Blackfriars
Campion Hall
Regent's Park
St Benet's Hall
St Stephen's House
Wycliffe Hall
Divisions and departmentsHumanities
American Institute
Art
Classics
History
Linguistics, Philology &amp; Phonetics
Medieval and Modern Languages
Oriental Studies
Philosophy
Theology and Religion
etc.
Medical Sciences
Biochemistry
Human Genetics
Pathology
Population Health
Medical School
etc.
Mathematical, Physicaland Life Sciences
Chemistry
Computer Science
Earth Sciences
Engineering Science
Materials
Mathematical Institute
Physics
Plant Sciences
Zoology
etc.
Social Sciences
Archaeology
Archaeology and the History of Art
Business
Continuing Education
Economics
Enterprise and the Environment
Government
International Development
Law
Oxford Martin School
Social Policy and Intervention
etc.
Institutes and affiliates
University of Oxford Botanic Garden
Jenner Institute
Oxford University Press
Oxford Internet Institute
Oxford University Innovation
Oxford Science Park
Begbroke Science Park
Oxford-Man Institute
etc.
Recognised IndependentCentres
Buddhist Studies
Energy Studies
Hebrew and Jewish Studies
Hindu Studies
Islamic Studies
Sports
Australian rules football
Boxing
Cricket
Cycling
Dancesport
Football
Women's
Gliding
Handball
Ice hockey
Mountaineering
Quidditch
Polo
Rowing
Men's
Women's
Men's Lightweight
Women's Lightweight
Rugby
etc.
Competitions
Cuppers
The Boat Race
Women's Boat Race
Henley Boat Races
The Varsity Polo Match
Rugby League Varsity Match
University Golf Match
Rugby Union Varsity Match
etc.
Student life
Cherwell
The Mays
Oxford Union
Oxford University Student Union
etc.
Related
In popular culture
fictional Oxford colleges
fictional Oxford people
The Oxford Magazine
Oxford University Gazette
 Category
 Portal
vteUniversities in popular culture
University of Cambridge
Columbia University
Harvard University
Johns Hopkins University
Brown University
MIT
NYU
University of Oxford
Princeton University
Stanford University
Tulane University
Yale University
Fictional universities and colleges:
List of fictional British and Irish universities
List of fictional Cambridge colleges
List of fictional Oxbridge colleges
List of fictional Oxford colleges
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_Oxford_in_popular_culture&amp;oldid=981412452"
		Categories: Culture of the University of OxfordEducation in popular cultureUniversity of Oxford in fictionUnited Kingdom in popular cultureHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Add links
		 This page was last edited on 2 October 2020, at 04:34 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
