	Moth ki Masjid
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
Moth ki MasjidMoth Ki MasjidReligionAffiliationIslamDistrictNew DelhiProvinceDelhiEcclesiastical or organizational statusMosqueLeadershipLodi periodYear consecrated16th centuryLocationLocation New DelhiCountryIndiaTerritoryDelhiGeographic coordinates28°33′45″N 77°13′4″E﻿ / ﻿28.56250°N 77.21778°E﻿ / 28.56250; 77.21778Coordinates: 28°33′45″N 77°13′4″E﻿ / ﻿28.56250°N 77.21778°E﻿ / 28.56250; 77.21778[1]ArchitectureArchitect(s)Miyan BhuiyaTypeMosqueStyleMedieval Indo Islamic architectureCompleted1505SpecificationsLength38.6 m (126.6 ft)Dome(s)Three (Semi circular)Minaret(s)NoneMaterialsRed Sandstone and Marble
Moth Ki Masjid (moʈʰ kiː masdʒɪd) is a heritage building located in Delhi, and was built in 1505 by  Wazir Miya Bhoiya, Prime Minister during the reign of Sikander Lodi (1489–1517) of the Lodi dynasty. It was a new type of mosque developed by the Lodis in the fourth city of the medieval Delhi of the Delhi Sultanate.[1][2][3] The name of the mosque literally translated into English language means ‘Lentil Mosque’ and this name tag ‘Lentil’ has an interesting legend. This mosque was considered a beautiful Dome (Gumbad) structure of the period.[1]
The mosque is now completely enclosed within the modern locality of South Extension Part II, Uday Park and Masjid Moth comprising residential and commercial establishments in the urban setting of South Delhi.[4]
It is surrounded by various other smaller dargahs and monuments that may be found peppered within the nooks of this urban village.
The local representative in collaboration with residents is now trying to revive the monument.[citation needed]
Contents
1 Legend
2 Structure
3 Visitor information
4 Gallery
5 References
Legend[edit]
It is famously narrated that when Sultan Sikandar Lodi was on a visit to a mosque in the vicinity of the present location of the Moth Ki Masjid for prayer, he knelt over a grain of moth (a kind of lentil), which had been dropped by a bird. His loyal Prime Minister Wazir Miya Bhoiya, who had accompanied the King, saw the lentil seed and observed that A seed so honoured by His majesty must not be thrown away. It must be used in the service of God.
So he took the moth seed and planted it in his garden for further growth. Over the years, the process of repeated planting and replanting of the moth seeds was carried out. In this process, the seeds multiplied several times. The Wazir finally sold the rich harvest and earned good money. With the proceeds of the sale he built the mosque after seeking permission from the Sultan to construct the Mosque.[1] Impressed by the ingenuity of his minister, Sikandar Lodi laid the foundation for building the mosque.[5]
Another version of the legend is that Sikandar Lodhi on one of his visits to the area played a prank on his Prime Minister by giving him a gift of a grain of moth (lentil). The Wazir accepted the gift in good grace and instead of throwing it away planted it in his garden. Over the years repeated plantation resulted in a rich harvest that provided a surplus income to the Wazir. Thereafter, the wazir, with the revenue earned from the lentil grains, decided  to build  a mosque. On completion, he invited the Sultan to visit the mosque and narrated the sequence of events which led to the building of the mosque. Impressed by this unique achievement, the Lodi named the mosque as "Moth Ki Masjid" or the Mosque from the Moth Lentil.[6]
Structure[edit]
  Outer wall of the Masjid
Raised on a high plinth, the mosque has a square layout. It is approached from the eastern side street of village Moti Masjid, through an exquisitely designed gate made of red, blue, black and white coloured sandstones arranged in a neat design (see picture). In particular, the arch of the gateway has a Hindu arch within a Muslim arch.[1][7]
Up the gateway steps, the entry is into a large courtyard of 38.6 m (126.6 ft)  width surrounded by walls. Within the courtyard, on the western side is the main shrine or the mosque with the rectangular prayer hall porch, which has a façade of five arched openings. The corners of the rectangular prayer hall are adorned with double storied towers. The towers have arched openings at the rear end of the roof with domed octagonal chhatris (the Cenotophs) on the related walls. The west side wall is provided with tapering turrets that depict a sophisticated outline (pictured).
The Cenotophs were the first of its kind to be built in India and since then these have been replicated in several other monuments, even in the Deccan. There are three impressive domes inside the prayer hall with the Mihrab located on the west qibla wall of the central dome, which is the largest of the three domes. The Mihrab depicts Quranic inscriptions in flora Nakashi in Iranian design. Turrets project out of the qibla. The central dome is supported on squinches. The domes on both flanks are borne on muqarnas pendentives. Carved panels of red sandstone and white marble and plaster, as well as glazed tiles embellish the walls of the mosque. The overall effect of the Mosque has been best described as:epitomizes in itself all that is best in Architecture of the Lodis and displays a freedom of imagination, a bold diversity of design, an appreciation of contrasting light and shade and a sense of harmony in line and colour, which combine to make it one of the most spirited and picturesque buildings of its kind in the whole range of Islamic art.[7][8][9] 
It is also said that it was the private mosque of the builder.[5][10]
  Five towered passage in the Mosque
An unusual feature of this mosque built in Indo–Islamic style of architecture is that it has an austere design with no minarets, calligraphic decorations and embellishments, which are otherwise traditional features of mosques. The dome is semicircular and windows have latticework screens.[11] An architectural appreciation of the structure vis-à-vis the five arched façade of domes of the period aptly infers:[12]the rapid crystallization of the earlier concept. Firstly, it is considerably larger than its predecessor. Secondly, the articulation of the recessed arches is far more adept. Thirdly, embellishment has been done using elegant niches on the columns abutting the arches. Another important feature is the use of better material and color, as if the masons were trying for something more permanent and forceful.
Visitor information[edit]
The monument is located in South Delhi and is well connected by road. Delhi International Airport is 21 km (13.0 mi) away. There are no visitor charges and is open on all days from sunrise to sun set.[7] There are several tourist attractions in the neighborhood of the Mosque, such as the Hauz Khas, Siri Fort, Kalkaji Temple, Lotus Temple, Nizamuddin Auliya and Chirag Dehlvi's Dargah.
Gallery[edit]
Beautiful double storyed corner tower of the Masjid
Mihrab below the main dome of the Mosque
References[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Moth Ki Masjid.
^ a b c d Shiri Ram Bakshi (1995). Delhi Through Ages. The Moth-ki-Masjid. Anmol Publications Pvt. Ltd. pp. 70–71. ISBN 9788174881380..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Geraldine Forbes; Gordon Johnson; B. R. Tomlinson; Stewart Gordon; Catherine Ella Blanshard Asher (1992). The new Cambridge history of India. Cambridge University Press. p. 10. ISBN 9780521267281. Retrieved 10 April 2009.
^ Ahmad Nabi Khan (2003). Islamic architecture in South Asia: Pakistan, India, Bangladesh. Oxford University Press. p. 94. ISBN 9780195790658. Retrieved 26 April 2009. Among them the most notable is the Moth Ki Masjid which was built by the Prime Minister of Sikanader Lodi in 1505
^ "Indian temples". Retrieved 26 April 2009.
^ a b "Dilli Ki Shaan :Moth Ki Masjid". Retrieved 26 April 2009.
^ "Moth ki Masjid or Masjid Moth". Archived from the original on 22 May 2009. Retrieved 25 April 2009.
^ a b c "Moth-ki-Masjid". Retrieved 26 April 2009.
^ M H Syed (2004). History of Delhi Sultanate. Anmol Publications Pvt. Ltd. p. 413. ISBN 9788126118304. Retrieved 26 April 2009.
^ "Moth-ki Mosque". Arch Net Digital library. Archived from the original on 3 May 2012. Retrieved 26 April 2009.
^ "Masjid Moth". Retrieved 25 April 2009.
^ "Moth ki Masjid". Archived from the original on 21 February 2009. Retrieved 25 April 2009.CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
^ "The End of the Delhi Sultanate – 2". Archived from the original on 16 May 2008. Retrieved 26 April 2009.
vteDelhi topicsTopics
Architecture
Economy
Education
Government
History
Neighbourhoods
Sport
Tourism
Transport
History
Timeline
Indraprastha
Hastinapur
Tomaras
Chauhan
Prithviraj Raso
Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent
Delhi Sultanate
Mamluk dynasty
Khalji dynasty
Tughlaq dynasty
Sayyid dynasty
Lodi dynasty
Sher Shah Suri
Mughal Empire
Maratha Empire
British East India Company
Bahadur Shah Zafar
Indian Rebellion of 1857
British Raj
Viceroy of India
Indian independence movement
Partition of India
New Delhi
Governmentand localities
Government
Legislative Assembly
Lt. Governor
Chief Minister
High Court
Delhi Commission for Women
Districts
District Centres
Municipal Corporation
Development Authority
New Delhi Municipal Council
Cantonment Board
New Delhi
Connaught Place
Chandni Chowk
Karol Bagh
Chanakyapuri
Lajpat Nagar
Hauz Khas
Buildings andlandmarks
Tourist attractions
Agrasen Ki Baoli
Akshardham Temple
Amar Jawan Jyoti
Ashokan Edicts
Bara Gumbad
Barakhamba
Central Park (Sunder Nursery)
Chausath Khamba
Chhatarpur Temple
Chor Minar
Coronation Park
Gates of Delhi
Hanuman Temple, Connaught Place
Hauz Khas Complex
Hauz-i-Shamsi
Hijron Ka Khanqah
Humayun's Tomb
India Gate
ISKCON Temple
Jahanpanah
Jahaz Mahal
Jama Masjid
Jamali Kamali Mosque and Tomb
Jantar Mantar
Khirki Mosque
Lotus Temple
Mehrauli complex
Metcalfe House
Moth ki Masjid
National War Memorial
National Police Memorial
Nizamuddin Dargah
Parks
Parliament of India
Purana Qila
Qutb Minar complex
Ramlila Maidan
Raj Ghat
Rajpath
Rashtrapati Bhavan
Red Fort
Salimgarh Fort
Shish Gumbad
Siri Fort
Sultan Ghari
Teen Murti Bhavan
Tomb of Isa Khan
Tomb of Safdar Jang
Vijay Chowk
Yogmaya Temple
Economy
Stock Exchange Association
TransportAirWithin Delhi
Indira Gandhi International Airport
Safdarjung Airport
Outside Delhi
Hindon Airport
Jewar Airport
Rail
Anand Vihar Terminal
Delhi Junction
Hazrat Nizamuddin
New Delhi
Sarai Rohilla
Delhi Light Rail Transit
Delhi Metro
Delhi Monorail
Delhi Suburban Railway
Road
Delhi Transport Corporation
Inter State Bus Terminals
Delhi BRTS
Culture
Independence Day
Republic Day
Punjabi cuisine
Dilli Haat
Khari Baoli
Cinema
Shopping
Delhi Pride
SportsTeams
Delhi cricket team
Delhi Capitals
Hindustan F.C.
New Delhi Heroes F.C.
Delhi United S.C.
Delhi Waveriders
Delhi Smashers
Delhi Dynamos FC
Delhi football team
Delhi Defenders
Delhi Giants
Delhi Wizards
Garhwal F.C.
Dabang Delhi
Simla Youngs F.C.
Stadiums
Arun Jaitley Stadium
Chhatrasal Stadium
Delhi University Stadium
Dr. Ambedkar Stadium
Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range
Harbax Singh Stadium
Indira Gandhi Arena
Jamia Millia Islamia University Ground
Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium
Karnail Singh Stadium
Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium
Siri Fort Sports Complex
SPM Swimming Pool Complex
Talkatora Stadium
Thyagaraj Sports Complex
Yamuna Sports Complex
Games
1951 Asian Games
1982 Asian Games
1987 Cricket World Cup
1989 Asian Athletics Championships
1996 Cricket World Cup
2010 Commonwealth Games
2010 Men's Hockey World Cup
2011 Cricket World Cup
Nehru Cup
Delhi Half Marathon
Delhi division
Central Delhi district
East Delhi district
New Delhi district
North Delhi district
North East Delhi district
North West Delhi district
Shahdara district
South Delhi district
South East Delhi district
South West Delhi district
West Delhi district
National CapitalRegion (NCR)
Faridabad
Ghaziabad
Greater Noida
Gurgaon
Noida
Other topics
Famous people from Delhi
Buildings and structures
List of cities in India by population
See also
Hindu temples
Landmarks
Museums
Neighbourhoods
Power Plants
Universities
India portal
vteMosques in IndiaJammu and Kashmir
Aali Mosque
Hazratbal Shrine
Jamia Masjid
Khanqah-e-Moula
Pathar Mosque
Punjab
Mubarak Mosque, Qadian
Moorish Mosque, Kapurthala
Aqsa Mosque, Qadian
Delhi
Fatehpuri Mosque
Hijron Ka Khanqah
Humanyun Mosque
Jama Masjid, Delhi
Jamali Kamali Mosque and Tomb
Khirki Mosque
Kotla Mubarakpur Complex
Lal Masjid, Delhi
Masjid Mubarak Begum
Moti Masjid (Red Fort)
Nizamuddin Dargah
Moth Ki Masjid
Nizamuddin Markaz Masjeed
Purana Qila
Qila-i-Kuhna Mosque
Qutb complex
Qutbuddin Bakhtiar Kaki
Shia Jama Mosque
Sunehri Masjid (Chandni Chowk)
Sunehri Masjid (Red Fort)
Red Mosque, Delhi
Uttar Pradesh
Aasfi Masjid
Atala Mosque, Jaunpur
Babri Masjid
Eidgah, Kheri
Gyanvapi Mosque
Jama Masjid, Fatehpur Sikri
Jama Masjid, Jaunpur
Jama Mosque, Agra
Jama Mosque, Dildar Nagar
Lal Darwaza Mosque
Sir Syed Mosque
Taj Mahal
Ziarat Shareef
Great Mosque, Budaun
Alamgir Mosque
Moti Masjid (Agra Fort)
Atala Mosque, Jaunpur
Bihar
Pathar Ki Mosque
Sher Shah Suri Mosque
Gujarat
Achut Bibi's Mosque
Ahmed Shah's Mosque
Baba Lului's Mosque
Dastur Khan's Mosque
Haibat Khan's Mosque
Jama Mosque, Ahmedabad
Malik Alam's Mosque
Malik Isan's Mosque
Miya Khan Chishti's Mosque
Mohammed Ghous Mosque
Qutub-e-Alam's Mosque
Qutbuddin Mosque
Rani Rupamati's Mosque
Rani Sipri's Mosque
Saiyad Usman Mosque
Sarkhej Roza's Mosque
Sardar Khan's Mosque
Shahpur Mosque
Shah-e-Alam's Mosque
Sidi Bashir Mosque
Sidi Saiyyed Mosque
Shah Wajihuddin's Mosque
Madhya Pradesh
Taj-ul-Masajid
Jama Masjid, Mandu
Lat Masjid
West Bengal
Adina Mosque
Fauti Mosque
Nizamat Imambara
Madina Mosque
Bari Mosque, Pandua
Furfura Sharif
Hooghly Imambara
Khustigiri
Nakhoda Masjid
Patharchapuri
Rajnagar
Tipu Sultan Mosque
Katra Masjid
Assam
Panbari Mosque
Maharashtra
Haji Ali Dargah
Jama Mosque, Mumbai
Masjid Ghareeb Nawaz
Jama Mosque, Nagpur
Jama Mosque, Furus
Jama Mosque, Erandol
Jama Mosque, Aurangabad
Karnataka
Jama Mosque, Bijapur
Jama Mosque Gulbarga
Masjid-e-Bilal
Masjid-i-Ala
Telangana
Charminar
Judi Mosque
Makkah Masjid
Spanish Mosque
Toli Masjid
Khairtabad Mosque
Mian Mishk Mosque
Hayat Bakshi Mosque
Masjid-e-Akhtarunissa Begum
Jamia Mosque Al-Kauser
Musheerabad Mosque
Kerala
Central Mahallu Jama'ath
Chempittapally
Cheraman Juma Mosque
Edappally Juma Mosque
Kolloorvila Juma Masjid
Madayi Palli
Malik Dinar Mosque
Mampuram Mosque
Mishkal Mosque
Muchundi Mosque
Odathil Palli
Palayam Juma Mosque
Juma Mosque, Pullancheri
Shahre Mubarak Grand Masjid
Tahir Masjid
Thazhathangady Juma Mosque
Tamil Nadu
Athar Jamad Masjid
Bahram Jung Mosque
Casa Verona's Mosque
Dharma Kidangu Mosque
Goripalayam Mosque
Hafiz Ahmad Khan Mosque
Jumma Masjid of Kilakarai
Kazimar Big Mosque
Begumpur Mosque, Dindigul
Makkah Masjid
Mamoor Mosque
Masjid e Mahmood, Choolaimedu
Masjid-o-Anwari
Meltheru and Keeltheru Mosques
Muhyuddin Andavar Mosque
Periamet Mosque
Thousand Lights Mosque
Triplicane Labbai Jamaath Mosque
Sungam Mosque
Puducherry
Khutba Mosque, Pondicherry
Meeran Mosque
Haryana
Kabuli Bagh Mosque
Thanesar Pathar Mosque
Chhattisgarh
Jama Mosque, Bhilai
Rajasthan
Ajmer Sharif Dargah
Adhai Din Ka Jhonpra
Andhra Pradesh
Shahi Jamia Mosque
Goa
Safa Mosque
Himachal Pradesh‎
Jama Mosque, Dharamshala
Meghalaya‎
Madina Mosque, Shillong
Mosques in India
Mosques by country
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Moth_ki_Masjid&amp;oldid=925369542"
		Categories: Delhi SultanateMosques in DelhiLodi dynastyReligious buildings and structures completed in 1505Hidden categories: CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknownUse dmy dates from February 2019Use Indian English from February 2019All Wikipedia articles written in Indian EnglishCoordinates on WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2019Commons category link from Wikidata
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةمصرىاردو
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 9 November 2019, at 17:47 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
