	Template talk:Main world championships
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
WikiProject Sports 
(Rated Template-class)
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Sports portalvteThis template is within the scope of WikiProject Sports, a WikiProject which aims to improve coverage of sport-related topics on Wikipedia. For more information, visit the project page, where you can join the project and/or contribute to the discussion.SportsWikipedia:WikiProject SportsTemplate:WikiProject Sportssports articles
 Template 
This template does not require a rating on the project's quality scale.
To-do list:
edit
history
watch
purge
Here are some tasks awaiting attention: 
  Article requests :                            Requested articles (Sports)  Requested articles (Association football)  Requested articles (Association football women)  Requested articles (Motor sports)  Requested articles (Estonian sportspeople)Assess :                    newly added and existing articles, maybe nominate some good B-class articles for GA; independently assess some as A-class, regardless of GA status.Cleanup :                                                 * Sport governing body (this should-be-major article is in a shameful state)  * Field hockey (History section needs sources and accurate information - very vague at the moment.)  * Standardize Category:American college sports infobox templates to use same font size and spacing.  * Sport in the United Kingdom - the Popularity section is incorrect and unsourced. Reliable data is required.
    * Fix project template and/or "to do list"  Current version causes tables of content to be hidden unless/until reader chooses "show."Expand :                                  Professional sports (crucial article explaining the salaried undertaking of sports)  * Sport industry (currently a sub-stub)Photo :                                         for pages listed in Category:Wikipedia requested images of sports and games and sub-categories.Stubs :                                                       work on articles in Category:Sports stubsUpdate :                                                    List of world sports championshipsOther :                                                   
Translate the page of sport in each country from corresponding article in other language Wikipedia to English Wikipedia which was marked in red.
Categorize: Gather all (major/olympic) sports to be part of this project
RfCs: answer requests for comment
Contents
1 Tennis championships
2 Motorsport
3 World Championships of the Olympic Games Sports
4 Fixing the Template
5 Golf
6 Baseball
7 Checkers/Draughts
8 International Six Days Enduro
9 Darts
10 cue sports
11 Extended-confirmed-protected edit request on 22 January 2018
Tennis championships[edit]
I moved the Davis and Fed Cup links up to the "team" category.  Even though tennis is usually seen as an individual sport (and rightfully so), these two are definitely team events.  There isn't any one event that functions as an individual tennis world championship.  The ITF names world champions at the end of each year, and these are usually the top-ranked players/pairs on the ATP Tour and WTA Tour. --Spyder_Monkey (Talk) 22:18, 4 November 2007 (UTC)
100% right. I moved the Boxing World Cup there by the same argument.  —Preceding unsigned comment added by 79.176.167.75 (talk) 20:02, 16 May 2008 (UTC)
Motorsport[edit]
Any reason why the motorsport world championships are absent? Formula 1, Rally, Touring Car, MotoGP, 250cc 125cc Superbike? --Falcadore (talk) 23:29, 22 November 2008 (UTC)
World Championships of the Olympic Games Sports[edit]
I add several World Championships of sports that were in the last Summer Olympic Games: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beijing_Olympics#Sports.
The sports in the list are: Athletics, Badmilton, Baseball, Basketball, Boxing, Canoeing, Cycling, Equestrian(Eventing, Dressage and Show Jump), Fencing, Field Hockey, Soccer, Gymnastics(Artistic, Rhythmic and Trampoline), Handball, Judo, Rowing, Shooting, Softball, Table Tennis, Taekwondo, Tennis, Triathlon, Volleyball(Beach Volleyball and Indoor Volleyball), Water polo, Weightlifting, Wrestling. Diving, Swimming and Synchronized swimming are part of the FINA World Aquatics Championships which is on the list.
The Olympic Games Sports that are still missing are: Archery, Modern pentathlon and Sailing. Could anybody add the World Championships of these 3 missing Olympics sports?--Italodal (talk) 13:51, 23 August 2009 (UTC)
Winter Games. All Winter Olympic Games' Sports are on the list: Biathlon, Bobsleigh, Curling, Ice hockey, Figure skating, Luge, Speed skating, Alpine skiing, Freestyle skiing and Snowboarding. Cross-country skiing, Nordic combined and Ski jumping are on the Nordic skiing Championships, Short track is on Speed skating Championships and Skeleton is with the Bobsleigh Championships.
The only missing Olympic Sports are Archery, Modern pentathlon and Sailing.--Italodal (talk) 17:46, 25 August 2009 (UTC)
I add Archery, Modern pentathlon and Sailing. All Olympic sports (Summer and Winter) are on the list. But many of these articles are only stubs, I hope this template can help to spread these world championships articles and more editors could expand them!--Italodal (talk) 01:27, 30 August 2009 (UTC)
Fixing the Template[edit]
Someone has messed up this Tamplate. Some important sports are now missing (Rugby, Golf, Tennis etc) and some games that aren't considered sports are on the list (Debating or Quiz for example). My first step was deleting some Championships and put others in different categories. My next step will be to put again some missing sports and correcting few mistakes.--Italodal (talk) 04:15, 7 February 2010 (UTC)
Golf[edit]
The majors are not world championships and not considered as such. Even the World Golf Championships and the Dubai World Championship are not treated as such despite their titles. Therefore they should not be included in this template. wjematherbigissue 22:36, 20 March 2010 (UTC)
Baseball[edit]
There appears to be an ongoing conflict over which baseball tournament should be included in this template; Baseball World Cup or World Baseball Classic. There are obvious claims for either given they are both recognised as world championships by the IBAF. The BWC is the older tournament and will most likely out-live the Classic, which will only continue as long as the MLB deem it worth their while. My suggestion would be to include both at this time, but am not sure how that could be best achieved. wjematherbigissue 08:52, 18 April 2010 (UTC)
Of course, the BWC has been discontinued outright in favor of the WBC. As such, only the one is needed.oknazevad (talk) 16:33, 3 February 2013 (UTC)
Checkers/Draughts[edit]
Would it be okay to add the Draughts World Championship to the board-game section?--T. Anthony (talk) 07:03, 26 November 2010 (UTC)
International Six Days Enduro[edit]
Since this is the highest level of enduro team championship, I think it should be on the template, even though its name does not have "world" or "championship".
Badminton and tennis team championships don't have those words either, though these all have "cup" in their names. And actually, none of these mentioned (enduro, badminton &amp; tennis) are "world championships". But, if those badminton &amp; tennis team competitions are considered as such, then should ISDE also. 82.141.67.203 (talk) 00:25, 25 February 2013 (UTC)
Darts[edit]
You can't have darts linking to World Professional Darts Championship. There is steel tip darts and soft tip or electronic darts. Both have World championships. World Professional Darts Championship is steel tip darts world championship. 213.149.62.13 (talk) 00:04, 21 December 2017 (UTC)
cue sports[edit]
cue sports have many world championship in formats and amateur and prof!  — Preceding unsigned comment added by Yekatrinbourgia (talk • contribs) 10:12, 10 January 2018 (UTC) 
Extended-confirmed-protected edit request on 22 January 2018[edit]
This edit request has been answered. Set the |answered= or |ans= parameter to no to reactivate your request.
In the Motorsports -&gt; motorcycle sport section, an edit needs to be made. Cross country rallying is there, but it need to like this to reflect the similar FIM Bajas World Cup:
"Change 
Cross-Country Rally
to 
Rally raid
Cross-Country Rally
Baja
Thank you." Captain Spyro (talk) 19:49, 22 January 2018 (UTC)
 Not done: The FIM Bajas World Cup does not have an article. If the topic passes WP:N, you are welcome to create an article about it and make another request here. feminist (talk) 07:49, 26 January 2018 (UTC)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template_talk:Main_world_championships&amp;oldid=822419781"
		Categories: Template-Class sports articlesNA-importance sports articlesWikiProject Sports articles
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		TemplateTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditNew sectionView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		 This page was last edited on 26 January 2018, at 07:49 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
