	Taos Pueblo
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about the ancient Tiwa pueblo. For the census-designated place, see Taos Pueblo, New Mexico. For the book by Ansel Adams and Mary Hunter Austin, see Taos Pueblo (book).
Taos Pueblotə̂otho or tə̂oboȉałopháymųp’ȍhə́othə̀olbo or ȉałopháyboPueblo de TaosTaos Pueblo In 2017LocationTaos Pueblo, New Mexico, U.S.Coordinates36°26′21″N 105°32′44″W﻿ / ﻿36.43917°N 105.54559°W﻿ / 36.43917; -105.54559Coordinates: 36°26′21″N 105°32′44″W﻿ / ﻿36.43917°N 105.54559°W﻿ / 36.43917; -105.54559Governing bodyNative American tribal government
UNESCO World Heritage SiteOfficial name: Pueblo de TaosTypeCulturalCriteriaivDesignated1992 (16th session)Reference no.492State PartyUSARegionEurope and North America
U.S. National Register of Historic PlacesDesignatedOctober 15, 1966Reference no.66000496[1]Area19 acres (7.7 ha)ArchitecturePueblo
U.S. National Historic Landmark DistrictDesignatedOctober 9, 1960[2]
N.M. State Register of Cultural PropertiesDesignatedMarch 13, 1972Reference no.243
.mw-parser-output .locmap .od{position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .id{position:absolute;line-height:0}.mw-parser-output .locmap .l0{font-size:0%;position:absolute}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv{line-height:110%;position:absolute;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr{line-height:110%;position:absolute;top:-0.75em;text-align:left}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pv>div{display:inline;padding:1px}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pl>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:right}.mw-parser-output .locmap .pr>div{display:inline;padding:1px;float:left}Location within New MexicoShow map of New MexicoLocation within United StatesShow map of the United States
Taost’óynemąTotal population4,500 (2010 U.S. Census)Regions with significant populations United States ( New Mexico)LanguagesTaos (Tiwa), English, SpanishReligionTaos religion (Pueblo religion), ChristianityRelated ethnic groupsOther Tanoan peoples
Taos Pueblo (or Pueblo de Taos) is an ancient pueblo belonging to a Taos-speaking (Tiwa) Native American tribe of Puebloan people. It lies about 1 mile (1.6 km) north of the modern city of Taos, New Mexico. The pueblos are considered to be one of the oldest continuously inhabited communities in the United States.[3] This has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Taos Pueblo is a member of the Eight Northern Pueblos. The Taos community is one of the most private, secretive, and conservative pueblos. Natives will almost never speak of their religious customs to outsiders, and because their language has never been written down, much of the culture remains unknown to the rest of the world. A Tribal Lands of 95,000 acres (38,000 ha) is attached to the pueblo, and about 4,500 people live in this area.[4]
Contents
1 Setting
2 Name
2.1 Taos language
2.2 Spanish language
3 History
3.1 Pre-Columbian
3.2 Post-contact
3.2.1 Taos Mountain
3.2.2 Blue Lake
4 Architecture
4.1 Main structure
4.2 Homes
5 Spiritual community
5.1 Religious practices
6 Culture
6.1 Traditions Involving the Land
6.2 Death Traditions
6.3 Gender
7 Conservation
8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 Further reading
12 External links
Setting[edit]
The pueblo was constructed in a setting backed by the Taos Mountains of the Sangre de Cristo Range. The settlement was built on either side of Rio Pueblo de Taos, also called Rio Pueblo and Red Willow Creek, a small stream that flows through the middle of the pueblo compound. Its headwaters come from the nearby mountains.[citation needed]
Taos Pueblo's most prominent architectural feature is a multi-storied residential complex of reddish-brown adobe, built on either side of the Rio Pueblo. The Pueblo's website states it was probably built between 1000 and 1450.[4]
The pueblo was designated a National Historic Landmark on October 9, 1960. In 1992 it was designated as a UNESCO Heritage Site. As of 2006, about 150 people live in the historic complex full-time.[4]
Name[edit]
Taos language[edit]
In the Tanoan language of Taos (Northern Tiwa), the pueblo is referred to as "the village" in either tə̂otho "in the village" (tə̂o- "village" + -tho "in") or tə̂obo "to/toward the village" (tə̂o- "village" + -bo "to, toward"). The proper name of the pueblo is  ȉałopháymųp’ȍhə́othə̀olbo "at red willow canyon mouth" (or ȉałopháybo "at the red willows" for short).[5] This name is more commonly used in ceremonial contexts and is less common in everyday speech.
Spanish language[edit]
The name Taos in English was borrowed from Spanish Taos. Spanish Taos is probably a borrowing of Taos tə̂o- "village" which was heard as tao to which the plural -s was added although in the modern language Taos is no longer a plural noun. The idea that the Spanish Taos is from tao, "cross of the order of San Juan de los Caballeros" (from Greek tau), is unlikely.[6]
History[edit]
Pre-Columbian[edit]
Most archeologists believe that the Taos Indigenous people, along with other Pueblo Indigenous people, settled along the Rio Grande after migrating south from the Four Corners region.[7] The dwellings of that region were inhabited by the Ancestral Puebloans. A long drought in the area in the late 13th century may have caused them to move to the Rio Grande, where the water supply was more dependable. However, their reason for migrating is still disputed and there is evidence that a violent struggle took place.  Ultimately, archeological clues point to the idea that the Natives may have been forced to leave.
Throughout its early years, Taos Pueblo was a central point of trade between the native populations along the Rio Grande and their Plains Tribes neighbors to the northeast. Taos Pueblo hosted a trade fair each fall after the agricultural harvest.[8]
Post-contact[edit]
The first Spanish visitors to Taos Pueblo arrived in 1540; they were members of the Francisco Vásquez de Coronado expedition, which stopped at many of New Mexico's pueblos in search of the rumored Seven Cities of Gold. Around 1620, Spanish Jesuits oversaw construction of the first Catholic Church in the pueblo, the mission of San Geronimo de Taos. Reports from the period indicate that the native people of Taos resisted the building of the church and imposition of the Catholic religion. Throughout the 1600s, cultural tensions grew between the native populations of the Southwest and the increasing Spanish colonial presence. Taos Pueblo was no exception. By 1660, the native people killed the resident priest and destroyed the church. Several years after it was rebuilt, the Pueblo Revolt of 1680 began; the Taos destroyed the church and killed two resident priests.[8]
In 1924-25 the Taos Pueblo culture was studied by German psychiatrist Carl Jung, who visited the Pueblo led by Ochwiay Biano. He was very interested in indigenous societies as he believed they were more closely in touch with archetypes.[citation needed]
Taos Mountain[edit]
  Residential adobe complex, and Taos Mountain pictured on an old postcard, circa 1930-1945.
The Pueblo's 48,000 acres (19,000 ha) of mountain land was taken by President Theodore Roosevelt and designated as the Carson National Forest early in the 20th century. It was finally returned in 1970 by the United States when President Nixon signed Public Law 91-550.[9]  An additional 764 acres (309 ha) south of the ridge between Simpson Peak and Old Mike Peak and west of Blue Lake were transferred back to the Pueblo in 1996.[10]
Blue Lake[edit]
Blue Lake, which the people of the Pueblo consider sacred, was included in this return of Taos land.  The Pueblo notably involved non-native people in lobbying the federal government for the return of Blue Lake, as they argued that their unrestricted access to the lake and the surrounding region was necessary to ensure their religious freedom.[11] The Pueblo's web site names the reacquisition of the sacred Blue Lake as the most important event in its history due to the spiritual belief that the Taos people originated from the lake.[12] It is believed that their ancestors live there, and the pueblos themselves only ascend the mountain twice a year.[citation needed]
Architecture[edit]
  Church, Pueblo de Taos (Ansel Adams—1941)
At the time of the Spaniards' initial contact, Hernando de Alvarado described the pueblo as having adobe houses built very close together and stacked five or six stories high. The homes became narrower as they rose, with the roofs of each level providing the floors and terraces for those above.[8]
The buildings at Taos originally had few windows and no standard doorways. Instead, access to rooms was through square holes in the roof that the people reached by climbing long, wooden ladders.  Engelmann Spruce logs (or vigas) supported roofs that had layers of branches, grass, mud, and plaster covering them. The architecture and the building materials were well suited for the rigors of the environment and the needs of the people in the Taos Valley.[8] Prior to the arrival of Coronado, all Taos Pueblo walls were constructed using balls of adobe (clay) about the size of a 'soft ball', Coronado introduced the technique of the formed mud brick, this technique revolutionized adobe construction in the new world.  Coronado also changed the roof structure, to use 2" to 4" inch aspen saplings branches installed at a right angle to the Engelmann Spruce vigas, then 2" to 3" inches of adobe plaster was applied, topped off with up to half a meter of loose soil ( about 18" inches thick ) for insulation and structural strength.  Thus indigenous architecture evolved.
The first Spanish-influenced architecture appeared in Taos Pueblo after Fray Francisco de Zamora came there in 1598 to establish a mission, under orders from Spanish Governor, Don Juan de Oñate.[8]
Main structure[edit]
  Pueblo de Taos — north side structure, circa 2005.
The north-side Pueblo is said to be one of the most photographed and painted buildings in North America.[13] It is the largest multistoried Pueblo structure still existing. It is made of adobe walls that are often several feet thick. Its primary purpose was for defense.[7] Up to as late as 1900, access to the rooms on lower floors was by ladders on the outside to the roof, and then down an inside ladder. In case of an attack, outside ladders could easily be pulled up.
Homes[edit]
The homes in this structure usually consist of two rooms, one of which is for general living and sleeping, and the second of which is for cooking, eating, and storage.  Each home is self-contained; there are no passageways between the houses.  Taos Indians made little use of furniture in the past, but today they have tables, chairs, and beds.  In the pueblo, electricity, running water, and indoor plumbing are prohibited.[7]
Spiritual community[edit]
  Landscape with pueblo through native cottonwood trees (Populus deltoides) (Ansel Adams—1941)
Religious practices[edit]
Two spiritual practices are represented in the Pueblo: the original indigenous spiritual and religious tradition[4] and Roman Catholicism. The majority of Taos Indians practice their still-vital, ancient indigenous religion.[7] Most (90%) members of the Taos Pueblo community are baptized as Roman Catholics.[4] Saint Jerome, or San Geronimo, is the patron saint of the pueblo.[14]
Culture[edit]
Traditions Involving the Land[edit]
Since Spanish colonization, the native Taos people have resisted cultural change and influence with European ideas.[15] Many ethnographers observe a high level of "interconnectedness and mutual dependence" between the Taos Pueblo and their surrounding land, where they derive many of their cultural traditions.[15] Consequently, a historical rivalry exits between the people on the South side of the river (summer people) and the North side (winter people). Foot races, which have significant religious meaning in the tribe, are a common way for these two group to express their rivalry, and there is a long held tradition in their tribe that was possibly created before the pyramids.[16] In addition, the Taos Pueblo attribute great value to Blue Lake in regards to their "living culture and agricultural sustainability."[17]
Death Traditions[edit]
According to Wood, the Taos Pueblo people never turn strangers away from their doors because they value both courtesy and hospitality. However, on All Souls' Day, the Taos Pueblo spend a day with their families and close their village to any non-Indian.[16] The Taos Pueblo approach death with an air of "stoicism,"[16] and they are only allowed to visit cemeteries on All Souls' Day or the day of someone's burial.
Gender[edit]
In the cultural fabric of the Taos Pueblo, the ethnographic data suggests that women are considered to be subordinate to men. The Pueblo social structure is dictated by kiva memberships, and women are not allowed to take part in the rituals held in these sacred spaces because they "are not trained" to do so. Despite the exclusion of women from some spiritual activities, the women in the Taos Pueblo society "exercised a considerable degree of influence economically, politically, and interpersonally."[18] For example, single women can run their own households, and married women control their own finances because they traditionally work as cooks or maids. Additionally, women have informal decision making power, using their abilities to influence the men around them.[18]
Conservation[edit]
The Taos Pueblo preservation program received a $800,000 grant from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. The fund aims to hire more workers, especially those who are trained in traditional construction techniques for conservation work, as well as workshop assistants who help pueblo homeowners with maintenance of traditional adobe homes. Supervisors teach trainees about traditional construction methods while rebuilding the majority of an 11-unit house which was in a state of near-collapse.[19]
The first phase of the conservation of Taos Pueblo is the construction of the training center, restoration of 120-150 houses, training of the local people in the community, creation of a detailed assessment of the structure of the compound, and establishment of a cultural center and tribal archives. The second phase was financed by the World Monument Fund. It's listed on its watchlist because of its endangered nature, both culturally and structurally. By the end of the conservation efforts, twenty-one adobe houses are expected to be restored. The previous fund has also covered the cost of a laser scanning of the structures.
The main characteristics of the conservation of Taos Pueblo aim to encourage a community-based approach. They include the training of local people to manage their own property, as well as the establishment of partnerships with government and non-government entities. The project resolves to preserve the traditional way of life in the community and sustain cultural traditions.[20]
See also[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
National Register of Historic Places portal
Elk-Foot of the Taos Tribe
National Register of Historic Places listings in Taos County, New Mexico
List of National Historic Landmarks in New Mexico
Notes[edit]
^ "National Register Information System". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. July 9, 2010..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "National Historic Landmarks Survey, New Mexico" (PDF). National Park Service. Retrieved December 9, 2016.
^ "Taos Pueblo", Taos website
^ a b c d e "About Taos Pueblo". Taos Pueblo. 2012. Retrieved December 10, 2012.
^ Sturtevant, William C. (1978). Handbook of North American Indians, Volume 9: Southwest. Government Printing Office. p. 267. ISBN 9780160045776. Retrieved 10 December 2012.
^ Jones, William. (1960). "Origin of the place name Taos", Anthropological Linguistics, 2 (3), 2–4; Trager, George L. (1960). "The name of Taos, New Mexico", Anthropological Linguistics, 2 (3), 5–6.
^ a b c d "Pueblo de Taos". National Geographic Society. 2010-11-15. Retrieved 2012-12-10.
^ a b c d e "Taos Pueblo". National Park Service. Retrieved 2012-12-10.
^ Julyan, B: New Mexico's Wilderness Areas: The Complete Guide, page 73. Big Earth Publishing, 1999
^ "Public Law 104-333" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 31, 2008. Retrieved July 19, 2008.
^ Bodine, John J. (1973). "Blue Lake: A Struggle for Indian Rights". American Indian Law Review. 1 (1): 23–32. doi:10.2307/20067803. JSTOR 20067803.
^ Keegan, Marcia (2010). Taos Pueblo and Its Sacred Blue Lake: Reflections on the Fortieth Anniversary from Members of Taos Pueblo. Clear Light Pub. ISBN 9781574160994.
^ Rodríguez, Sylvia (2009-04-10). The Matachines Dance: A Ritual Dance of the Indian Pueblos and Mexicano/Hispano Communities. Sunstone Press. p. 17. ISBN 9780865346345. Retrieved 10 December 2012.
^ Scott, Sascha T. (2008). Paintings of Pueblo Indians and the Politics of Preservation in the American Southwest. ProQuest. p. 25. ISBN 9780549890423. Retrieved 10 December 2012.
^ a b Daniel Worden (2013). "Landscape Culture: Ansel Adams and Mary Austin's Taos Pueblo". Criticism. 55 (1): 69. doi:10.13110/criticism.55.1.0069. ISSN 0011-1589.
^ a b c Wood, Nancy C. (1989). Taos pueblo (1st ed.). New York: Knopf. ISBN 0394560329. OCLC 18559229.
^ Centre, UNESCO World Heritage. "Taos Pueblo". UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Retrieved 2019-06-30.
^ a b Katz, Pearl (1982). "Initiation Rites and the Status of Women at Taos Pueblo". Anthropos. 77 (5/6): 889–891. ISSN 0257-9774. JSTOR 40460534.
^ "Taos Pueblo". World Monuments Fund. Retrieved 2018-12-08.
^ Abdel Tawab, Ayman (2013-07-24). "Sustainable conservation of traditional living communities: the case of Taos Pueblo in the United States of America". Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
References[edit]
Bodine, John J (1996). Taos Pueblo: A Walk Through Time. Tucson: Rio Nuevo Publishers. ISBN 9781887896955.
 This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the National Park Service.
Further reading[edit]
Wenger, Tisa Joy (2009). We Have a Religion: The 1920s Pueblo Indian Dance Controversy and American Religious Freedom. University of North Carolina Press. ISBN 9780807832622.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Taos Pueblo (community).
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Pueblo de Taos (historic pueblo).
Official website
Indianpueblo.org—Indian Pueblo Cultural Center: Taos Pueblo
unesco.org: Taos Pueblo — UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
Sacredland.org: Taos Blue Lake
Princeton.edu: Taos Blue Lake Collection — at the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, Princeton University.
National Park Service—NPS: Taos Pueblo — on NPS "Discover Our Shared Heritage" website.
SMU-in-Taos: Research Publications digital collection — SMU-in-Taos (Fort Burgwin) campus; anthropological + archaeological monographs + edited volumes.
SMU-in-Taos: Taos archeology
SMU-in-Taos: Papers on Taos archaeology
vteMunicipalities and communities of Taos County, New Mexico, United StatesCounty seat: TaosTowns
Red River
Taos
Villages
Questa
Taos Ski Valley
CDPs
Arroyo Hondo
Arroyo Seco
Chamisal
Costilla
Peñasco
Picuris Pueblo
Ranchos de Taos
Rio Lucio
San Cristobal
Talpa
Taos Pueblo
Vadito
Otherunincorporatedcommunities
Amalia
Cañoncito
Carson
Cerro
El Prado
El Rito
Las Trampas
Llano
No Agua
Ojo Caliente
Pilar
Tres Piedras
Twining
Valdez
Ghost towns
La Belle
Indian reservation
Taos Pueblo
 United States portal
vte Indian reservations and Pueblos in New MexicoReservations
Acoma
Jicarilla
Mescalero
Navajo
Alamo
Ramah
Tohajiilee
Santa Clara
Ute Mountain
Zuni
Pueblos
Acoma
Cochiti
Isleta
Jemez
Kewa
Laguna
Nambe
Ohkay Owingeh
Picuris
Pojoaque
Sandia
San Felipe
San Ildefonso
Santa Ana
Santa Clara
Taos
Tesuque
Zia
Zuni
vteU.S. National Register of Historic PlacesTopics
Architectural style categories
Contributing property
Historic district
History of the National Register of Historic Places
Keeper of the Register
National Park Service
Property types
Lists by state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Lists by insular areas
American Samoa
Guam
Minor Outlying Islands
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
Virgin Islands
Lists by associated state
Federated States of Micronesia
Marshall Islands
Palau
Other areas
District of Columbia
Morocco
Related
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966
Historic Preservation Fund
 Portal
 Category
vteWorld Heritage Sites in the United StatesNortheast
Independence Hall
Statue of Liberty
Midwest
Cahokia
South
Everglades
Great Smoky Mountains
Mammoth Cave
Monticello and the University of Virginia
Poverty Point
San Antonio Missions
West
Carlsbad Caverns
Chaco Culture National Historical Park
Grand Canyon National Park
Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park
Kluane-Wrangell–St. Elias-Glacier Bay-Tatshenshini-Alsek1
Mesa Verde
Olympic National Park
Pueblo de Taos
Papahānaumokuākea
Redwood
Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park1
Yellowstone National Park
Yosemite National Park
Multiple Locations
The 20th-Century Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright
Territories
La Fortaleza and San Juan National Historic Site in Puerto Rico
1 Shared with Canada
vte Pre-Columbian North America
.mw-parser-output .nobold{font-weight:normal}Periods
Lithic
Archaic
Formative
Classic
Post-Classic
Archaeological cultures
Adena
Alachua
Ancient Beringian
Ancestral Pueblo (Anasazi)
Baytown
Belle Glade
Buttermilk Creek Complex
Caborn-Welborn
Calf Creek
Caloosahatchee
Clovis
Coles Creek
Comondú
Deptford
Folsom
Fort Ancient
Fort Walton
Fremont
Glacial Kame
Glades
Hohokam
Hopewell
List of Hopewell sites
La Jolla
Las Palmas
Leon-Jefferson
Maritime Archaic
Mississippian
List of Mississippian sites
Mogollon
Monongahela
Old Cordilleran
Oneota
Paleo-Arctic
Paleo-Indians
Patayan
Plano
Plaquemine
Poverty Point
Red Ocher
Safety Harbor Culture
Santa Rosa-Swift Creek
St. Johns
Steed-Kisker
Tchefuncte
Troyville
Weeden Island
Archaeologicalsites
Angel Mounds
Anzick Clovis burial
Bandelier National Monument
Bastian
Benson
Blue Spring Shelter
The Bluff Point Stoneworks
Brewster
Cahokia
Candelaria Cave
Casa Grande
Chaco Canyon
Coso Rock Art District
Crystal River Archaeological State Park
Cuarenta Casas
Cueva de la Olla
Eaker
El Fin del Mundo
El Vallecito
Effigy Mounds National Monument
Etowah Indian Mounds
Eva
Folsom Site
Fort Ancient
Fort Center
Fort Juelson
Four Mounds
Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument
Glenwood
Grimes Point
Holly Bluff Site
Hopewell Culture National Historical Park
Horr's Island
Huápoca
Key Marco
Kimball Village
Kincaid Mounds
Kolomoki Mounds
Lake Jackson Mounds
L'Anse aux Meadows
Marksville
Marmes Rockshelter
Meadowcroft Rockshelter
Mesa Verde
Moaning Cavern
Moorehead Circle
Morrison Mounds
Moundville
Mummy Cave
Nodena Site
Ocmulgee National Monument
Old Stone Fort
Orwell Site
Paquime
Parkin Park
Pinson Mounds
Portsmouth Earthworks
Poverty Point
Pueblo Bonito
Recapture Canyon
Rock Eagle
Rock Hawk
Rosenstock Village Site
Russell Cave National Monument
Salmon Ruins
Serpent Mound
Sierra de San Francisco
Spiro Mounds
SunWatch
Taos Pueblo
Toltec Mounds
Town Creek Indian Mound
Turkey River Mounds
Upward Sun River site
Velda Mound
West Oak Forest Earthlodge
Windover
Winterville
Wupatki National MonumentHumanremains
Anzick-1
Arlington Springs Man
Buhl Woman
Kennewick Man
La Brea Woman
Leanderthal Lady
Melbourne Man
Minnesota Woman
Peñon woman
Spirit Cave mummy
Vero man
Miscellaneous
Aridoamerica
Black drink
Ceremonial pipe
Chunkey
Clovis point
Container Revolution
Eastern Agricultural Complex
Eden point
Effigy mound
Falcon dancer
Folsom point
Green Corn Ceremony
Horned Serpent
Kiva
Medicine wheel
Metallurgy
Mi'kmaq hieroglyphic writing
Mound Builders
N.A.G.P.R.A.
Norse colonization of North America
Oasisamerica
Piasa
Southeastern Ceremonial Complex
Stickball
Three Sisters agriculture
Thunderbird
Underwater panther
Water glyphs
Related
Genetic history
Pre-Columbian era
Authority control 
GND: 4419046-3
LCCN: n95052466
NLI: 001036446
VIAF: 85146153130705252131
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n95052466
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Taos_Pueblo&amp;oldid=971827138"
		Categories: Taos PuebloAdobe buildings and structures in New MexicoAmerican Indian reservations in New MexicoBuildings and structures completed in the 10th centuryBuildings and structures in Taos County, New MexicoHistory of Taos, New MexicoNational Historic Landmarks in New MexicoHistoric districts on the National Register of Historic Places in New MexicoNative American tribes in New MexicoNorthern Rio Grande National Heritage AreaPopulated places in Taos County, New MexicoPre-historic cities in the United StatesProperties of religious function on the National Register of Historic Places in New MexicoPueblo great housesPuebloan buildings and structuresReligious places of the indigenous peoples of North AmericaSacred lakesTaos, New MexicoTiwaTourist attractions in Taos County, New MexicoWorld Heritage Sites in the United StatesNational Register of Historic Places in Taos County, New MexicoPueblos on the National Register of Historic Places in New MexicoTaos RevoltHidden categories: Articles using NRISref without a reference numberCS1 errors: missing periodicalCoordinates on Wikidata"Related ethnic groups" needing confirmationAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2012Articles with unsourced statements from October 2013Articles with unsourced statements from September 2016Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the National Park ServiceCommons category link is on WikidataCommons category link is locally definedWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NLI identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
		Languages
		العربيةتۆرکجهБеларускаяBoarischCatalàCebuanoDanskDeutschDiné bizaadEuskaraفارسیFrançaisՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიLietuviųMagyarമലയാളംმარგალურიNederlands日本語OccitanPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishSuomiSvenskaTürkçeTiếng Việt
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 8 August 2020, at 13:27 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
