	Catholic–Protestant relations
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Socio-political and theological relations and dialogue between the Catholic Church and Protestants.
Catholic–Protestant relationsTypeProtestant Church, Catholic ChurchFounderJesus Christ, according to both denominationsOriginCatholic: 1st century, Holy Land, Roman Empire Protestant: 16th Century, Europe, Holy Roman EmpireSeparationsReformation (16th century)MembersCatholic: 1.313 billion (2017, self-declared)[1]
Protestant: 800 millions to 1 billion[2]
Part of a series onChristianity
JesusChrist
Nativity
Crucifixion
Resurrection
BibleFoundations
Old Testament
New Testament
Gospel
Canon
Books of the Bible
Church
Creed
New Covenant
Theology
God
Trinity
Father
Son
Holy Spirit
Apologetics
Baptism
Christology
History of theology
Mission
Salvation
HistoryTradition
Apostles
Peter
Paul
Mary
Early Christianity
Church Fathers
Constantine
Councils
Augustine
East–West Schism
Crusades
Aquinas
Reformation
Luther
DenominationsGroups
Western
Roman Catholic
Protestant
Adventist
Anabaptist
Anglican
Baptist
Calvinist
Evangelical
Holiness
Lutheran
Methodist
Pentecostal
Eastern
Eastern Catholic
Eastern Orthodox
Oriental Orthodox
Church of the East (Nestorian)
Nontrinitarian
Jehovah's Witness
Latter Day Saint
Oneness Pentecostal
Related topics
Art
Criticism
Ecumenism
Music
Other religions
Prayer
Sermon
Symbolism
Worship
 Christianity portalvte
Catholic–Protestant relations refers to the socio-political and theological relations and dialogue between the Catholic Church and Protestants.
This relationship began in the 15th century with the beginning of the reformation and thereby Protestantism. A number of factors contributed to the Protestant Reformation. Namely, disagreement on the nature of salvation and by extension a number of doctrines including the sale of indulgences and more. These disputes led to a schism whereby Protestants chose to split from the Roman Catholic Church and resulted in the Council of Trent (1545–1563) which clarified the Catholic approach to Protestantism from then on. A series of significant events followed which divided Europe and culminated in a number of states transitioning from Catholicism to Protestantism as their state religion. However, many remained Catholic. Much of the schism and the events it caused can be categorised as violent and tumultuous. However, with the rise of secularism, Catholic-Protestant disputes are generally constrained to the intellectual sphere.[3][4]
Contents
1 Theological disputes
1.1 Salvation
1.2 Authority
2 History
2.1 16th Century – The Reformation
2.1.1 France
2.1.2 Netherlands
2.1.3 Great Britain
2.2 17th Century
2.3 18th Century
2.4 19th Century
2.5 20th Century
2.6 21st century
3 Notes
4 See also
5 References
6 Bibliography
Theological disputes[edit]
Catholic-Protestant theological dissent was birthed in 1517 with the posting of Martin Luther’s Ninety-five Theses which outline ninety-five objections against Catholic doctrine. These included distinction between clergy and laity, the Roman Church’s monopoly on scriptural interpretation, the sale of indulgences, the nature of salvation, and more.[3]
Salvation[edit]
Luther’s understanding of salvation was one of the radical departures from Catholic dogma. Luther highlighted that Christian salvation was a free gift from God which led him to criticise the sale of indulgences as a means by which one can "attain" heaven. He stressed the importance of a faith-oriented process of salvation, distinct from his view of the Catholic works-oriented salvation. This also led to a shift in the understanding of grace.[3] This doctrine is known as sola fide (faith alone).[5]
See also: Predestination in Calvinism
Following in the footsteps of Luther, French attorney John Calvin further developed the reformed theology of salvation. While Luther maintained that salvation was available to all, Calvin introduced the doctrine of predestination. Based on the pretext of human's sin-enslaved will, and salvation being the sole work of God (not man), Calvin insisted that certain individuals were predestined for heaven and others were not.[6]
Authority[edit]
A significant foundation for both parties' doctrines is the nature of their authority. The Protestant position assumes scripture to be the sole foundation of Christian doctrine. This has led to heavy criticism of the Catholic Church's position which places scripture on par with tradition.[7]
History[edit]
16th Century – The Reformation[edit]
See also: European wars of religion and St. Bartholomew's Day massacre  Martin Luther, 1529
  Religious affiliation in Europe in 1560 
Part of a series on theReformationNinety-five Theses
Precursors
Arnold of Brescia and Arnoldists
Peter Waldo and Waldensians
John Wycliffe and Lollardy
Jan Hus and Hussites
Girolamo Savonarola
Beginning
Ninety-five Theses
Diet of Worms
Luther Bible
Magisterials
Radicals
Contributing factors
Western Schism
Avignon Papacy
Bohemian Reformation
Northern Renaissance
Christian humanism
German mysticism
Johannes Gutenberg and his printing press
Erasmus
Johann Reuchlin
Theologies of seminal figures
Theology of Martin Luther
Theology of Huldrych Zwingli
Theology of John Calvin
Protestant Reformers
Martin Luther
Philip Melanchthon
Huldrych Zwingli
John Calvin
Martin Bucer
William Tyndale
Andreas Karlstadt
Theodore Beza
George Buchanan
Heinrich Bullinger
Peter Martyr Vermigli
William Farel
François Hotman
John Knox
Hubert Languet
Thomas Müntzer
Balthasar Hubmaier
Menno Simons
Thomas Cranmer
Richard Hooker
Jacobus Arminius
Roger Williams
Many others
By location
Germany
Switzerland (Geneva/Zürich)
England
Scotland
Netherlands
Czech Lands
Hungary
Romania
Slovenia
Denmark–Norway and Holstein
Sweden and Finland
Iceland
Estonia and Latvia
Austria
France
Italy
Poland-Lithuania
Ireland
Major political leaders
Henry VIII of England
Elizabeth I
Oliver Cromwell
James VI and I
William the Silent
Gaspard II de Coligny
Henry IV of France
Jeanne d'Albret
Stephen Bocskai
Gabriel Bethlen
Gustav II Adolf
Frederick V, Elector Palatine
Philip I of Hesse
Electors of Saxony
Frederick III
John Frederick I
Counter-Reformation
Catholic Church
Council of Trent
Counter-Reformation § Politics
Censorship of the Bible § 16th century
Anti-Protestantism
Criticism
Holy Roman Emperors
Charles V
Ferdinand II
Political and religious conflicts
Thirty Years' War
French Wars of Religion
Eighty Years' War
War of the Three Kingdoms
German Peasants' War
Wars of Kappel
Schmalkaldic War
Art and literaturePainting and sculpture
Northern Mannerism
Lutheran art
German Renaissance Art
Swedish art
English art
Woodcuts
Art conflicts
Beeldenstorm
Building
Influence on church architecture
Literature
Elizabethan
Metaphysical poets
Propaganda
Welsh
Scottish
Anglo-Irish
German
Czech
Swiss
Slovak
Sorbian
Romanian
Danish
Bohorič alphabet
Faroese
Norwegian
Swedish
Finnish
Icelandic
Dutch Renaissance and Golden Age
Folklore of the Low Countries
16th century Renaissance humanism
16th century in poetry
16th century in literature
Theater
English Renaissance theatre
Pastoral
Morality
History
Tragedy
Revenge
MusicForms
Hymnody of continental Europe
Music of the British Isles
Hymn tune
Lutheran chorale
Lutheran hymn
Anglican church music
Exclusive psalmody
Scottish church music
Normative principle
Anglican chant
Homophony vs. Polyphony
Falsobordone
Verse anthem
Liturgies
Reformed worship
Calvin's liturgy
Formula missae
Deutsche Messe
Liturgical Struggle
Ecclesiastical Latin
Lutheran and Anglican Mass in music
Cyclic mass vs. Paraphrase mass
Roman vs. Sarum Rites
Sequence (retained by Lutherans, mostly banned by Trent)
Hymnals
First and Second Lutheran hymnals
First Wittenberg hymnal
Ausbund
Swenske songer
Thomissøn's hymnal
Book of Common Prayer
Metrical psalters
Book of Common Order
Souterliedekens
Genevan Psalter
Scottish Psalter
Whole Book of Psalms
Secular Music
English Madrigal School
Greensleeves
German madrigals
Meistersinger
Moravian traditional music
Conclusion and commemorationsConclusion
Confessionalization with subsequent Protestant orthodoxy
Peace of Westphalia
Simultaneous rise of Pietism and Rationalism
Monuments
Reformation Wall
Luther Monuments
Calendrical commemoration
Reformation Day
Lutheran
Anglican
Protestantismvte
The 16th century began the Reformation which resulted in the formation of Protestantism as a distinct entity to Catholicism. In response, the Catholic Church began its own reformation process known as the "counter-reformation" which culminated in the Council of Trent. This council was responsible for several practical changes and doctrinal clarifications.[8] In spite of this, the two parties remained notably dissimilar.
After years of the spread of Martin Luther's ideas, Protestants submitted their statement of belief at the Diet of Augsburg (1530).[9]
In 1540 Pope Paul III approved the order of the Society of Jesus (or "Jesuits") which was created largely to combat Protestantism.[10]
The Regensburg Reconciliation (1541) was a failed attempt by Catholics and Lutheran Protestants to reunite.[9]
The "traditionally Roman" nations of France, Spain and Italy endured the Roman Inquisitions as of 1542. The inquisitions were aimed at all those considered heretical by the Catholic Church but predominately targeted Protestants as it was the most prominent. Technically the Church itself never executed heretics (as Canon Law forbade the shedding of blood). Rather, heretics were handed over to civil authorities for punishment.[11]
Disputes between the Catholic Emperor of Germany and the princes thereof resulted in the Schmalkaldic War (1547). Protestants were defeated, but later on Protestantism became legally recognised as a valid religion.[9]
In 1555 the Peace of Augsburg allowed Catholics and Lutherans to follow the faith of their ruler – regardless of what that may be – within Germany.[12]
France[edit]
The Reformation in France took on a unique flavour which lacked the public, State and church support found elsewhere in Europe. The first French Protestants were subject to persecution in the form of death or exile. From 1562 conflict raged between the Protestant Huguenots and Catholics. In 1589, Protestant Henry IV succeeded the throne raising the hopes of French Protestants. However, any reforms he may have intended to make were shattered by an alliance between French Catholics and the king of Spain who forced him to convert. The 1598 Edict of Nantes gave Huguenots the right to practice freely while retaining Catholicism as the nation's official religion.[13]
Netherlands[edit]
The Netherlands was quick to embrace the Reformation and soon assumed a Protestant identity. Though it faced opposition by its ruling power – Spain – the Dutch independence movement dispelled with Spanish imposition and allowed for Protestant development.[13]
Great Britain[edit]
See also: Dissolution of the Monasteries; Thomas More § Indictment, trial and execution; and Pilgrimage of GraceSee also: Elizabethan Religious Settlement
England and Scotland endured the longest of the European transformations in response to the Reformation. Henry VIII declared himself Head of the Church of England (1534) in response to Rome's refusal to sanction his divorcing of Queen Catherine. He still, however, died a Catholic. Officially, the reformation in England began under Edward VI (1547–53) led by Archbishop Thomas Cranmer of Canterbury. Queen Mary (1553–58) persecuted Protestants in an attempt to restore Catholicism to England. Ironically, this only served to enhance Protestant determination. Following this trend, Elizabeth solidified Protestantism as the State religion of England permanently.[14] Overall, the reformation led to the seizing of all Catholic Church assets in Britain, persecution of clergy, and the virtual destruction of Catholicism as a significant socio-political force in the region.[5]
17th Century[edit]
See also: Nadere Reformatie and Gunpowder Plot
In 1618 the Dutch War of Independence ended and Catholic Spain ceased to rule over the region. Much of this war is considered to be on religious grounds.[13]
The 17th century saw Protestant-Catholic tensions rise particularly in Germany leading to the Thirty Years War from 1618–48. This war saw the destruction of much of Central Europe and divided much of the continent along Catholic-Protestant lines. Swedes, Danes, and French were all involved. The war culminated in the Treaty of Westphalia (1648) which granted Calvinists and Lutherans equal rights to Catholics.[15]
New Englanders were deeply suspicious of Catholicism and in 1647 banished all Catholic clergymen by law. In 1689 the Maryland assembly forbade Catholic baptism outside of already Catholic households, the practicing of Catholic mass, and more.[7]
In 1685 king Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes leading to the prosecution of Protestants in France.[15]
18th Century[edit]
Protestant Britain and its colonies remained apprehensive towards the Roman Catholic Church. North America was particularly hostile. As of 1700, immigrating Catholic clergy were imprisoned upon arrival in New England. In 1725 Spanish-born Londoner Antonio Gavin wrote A Master Key to Popery which was adopted in Protestant sects across the British empire. Gavin described Catholic clergymen as "wolves in sheep's clothing", purposefully teaching erroneous doctrine, power-hungry and more. Similar sentiments were preached throughout the Empire in the legal, academic, and religious spheres. In 1731 Massachusetts Supreme Court Judge Paul Dudley wrote An Essay on the Merchandize of Slaves and Souls of Men: With Application thereof to the Church of Rome describing the financial greed of the Roman Church. Among others, Dudley's will made provisions for a lecture on the "detection, conviction and exposition of Roman Church idolatry". Jonathan Mayhew, pastor of Boston's West Church, also preached on the idolatry of transubstantiation and the equating of oral tradition with sacred scripture. The late 18th century saw a series of new laws introduced to British North America to curtail the immigration of Catholics and dispossess those already dwelling there. In 1757 Catholics lost their right to bear arms. Anti-Catholicism soon became intertwined with nationalism. Thus, when conspiracies of secret relations between Rome and the British Monarchy spread, colonials preferred to revolt from Britain. This contributed to the American Revolution (1765–83). However, the revolutionaries eventually diverged from this position given their reliance on funding from Catholic France and to avoid conflict with colonial Catholics of Maryland, Philadelphia and Quebec.[16]
In contrast, the Quebec Act of 1774 provided protections for both English Protestants and French Catholics in Canada.[16]
19th Century[edit]
The 1800s saw a period known as the Second Great Awakening for Protestantism in the United States. Prominent figures such as Charles Grandison Finney (1792-1875) advocated against Roman Catholicism amongst other perceived evils. The American Bible Society – a Protestant organisation – advocated for the unification of Protestant denominations in order to combat Catholicism. Deep distrust existed from Protestants towards the Papacy.[17]
In 1821 and again in 1825, the English House of Commons oversaw proposed bills regarding the emancipation of Catholics. In both instances, they were overturned given the heavily Protestant nature of the England's House of Lords.[5]
Catholic Austria recognised Protestantism as a legal religion in the 1860s.[18]
In 1871 the Protestant rulers of Germany undertook a program known as the kulturkampf (culture struggle) which saw the suppression of German Catholicism. The German Ministry for Education’s Catholic Bureau was abolished, and openly political priests were prosecuted. In 1872, the Jesuits were expelled from Germany.[19]
In 1895 Pope Leo XIII attempted to make amends with the Church of England in his apostolic letter Ad Anglos. In 1896, however, Leo maintained Catholic superiority and declared Anglican orders invalid[20] in his bull Apostolicae curae.
20th Century[edit]
See also: Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification  St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican CityThe 20th Century saw many developments in the relationship between Catholic-Protestant relations. In 1910, the International Missionary Conference was held in Edinburgh in an attempt to unify non-Roman churches. Protestant denominations responded to the possibility of unification with varying success. Catholic representatives were present at the council, but merely as observers.[21]
The Conversations at Malines (1923-27) were talks between some representatives of the Catholic Church and the Church of England which Pope Pius XI ceased. No real change eventuated from these talks.[4]
In 1950 the Roman Catholic Church widened the gap between itself and Protestantism by defining and enforcing the doctrine of the Assumption of Mary under Pius XII.[4]
The Second Vatican Council (1962-65) aimed to move towards Christian unity of all denominations. Doctrinal unity was reached to some degree with different denominations and a "shared Bible"[a][which?] was introduced.[4]
21st century[edit]
  Largest (non-)religious group by EU member state according to Eurobarometer survey 2019.[22] .mw-parser-output .legend{page-break-inside:avoid;break-inside:avoid-column}.mw-parser-output .legend-color{display:inline-block;min-width:1.25em;height:1.25em;line-height:1.25;margin:1px 0;text-align:center;border:1px solid black;background-color:transparent;color:black}.mw-parser-output .legend-text{}  More than 75% Catholic   50–75% Catholic   Relative Catholic majority   50–75% Protestant   More than 75% Eastern Orthodox   50–75% non-religious   Relative non-religious majority   30% Catholic, 30% non-religious (Germany)
Further information: Catholic teachings on heresy § Modern Roman Catholic response to Protestantism  In the spirit of Vatican II, the Catholic Church has embraced a more open approach to Christian unity to both Protestants and Eastern Orthodoxy.[4] Nevertheless, many Americanised remnants of Anglo-American-style denominations of Protestantism remain deeply distrustful of the Catholic Church. Ecumenism with these sects appears unlikely.[16]
In 2015, Pope Francis declared division among Christians as "the work of the father of lies [the devil]." Francis added that the devil knows that "all Christians are disciples of Christ: that they are one, that they are brothers! He [the devil] doesn't care if they are Evangelicals or Orthodox, Lutherans, Catholics or Apostolic… He doesn't care! They are Christians!"[4][23][24] 
In 2016, Pope Francis traveled to Lund, Sweden, where he took part in the celebration given for the upcoming of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation.[25] The next year, the press of the Vatican released a stamp to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation; the stamp depicts Luther and Melanchton kneeling before a crucified Jesus.[26][27]
Notes[edit]
^ Possibly the Italian Bibbia CEI [it]; it was planned to be released as a common Bible for Catholics and Protestants, but due to difficulties it came out as Bible approved only by Catholics.
See also[edit]
History of Christianity
History of Protestantism
History of the Roman Catholic Church#Renaissance and reforms
History of the Eastern Orthodox Church#Ottoman Empire
History of Christian theology#Renaissance and Reformation
History of Oriental Orthodoxy
Timeline of the English Reformation
Timeline of Christianity#Reformation
Timeline of Christian missions#1500 to 1600
Timeline of the Roman Catholic Church#1454–1600
Christianity in the 16th century
Chronological list of saints and blesseds in the 16th century
References[edit]
^ "Presentation of the Pontifical Yearbook 2019 and the Annuarium Statisticum Ecclesiae 2017". Holy See Press Office. 6 March 2019. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019. Retrieved 6 March 2019..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "Pewforum: Global Christianity" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 November 2013. Retrieved 18 Feb 2020.
^ a b c Finn, Daniel (2013). Christian Economic Ethics: History and Implications. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 161.
^ a b c d e f Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 410.
^ a b c Congar, Yves (2019). A History of Theology. Minneapolis: ATF (Australia) Ltd. p. 186.
^ Finn, Daniel (2013). Christian Economic Ethics: History and Implications. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. pp. 165–67.
^ a b DePalma, Margaret (2004). Dialogue on the Frontier: Catholic and Protestant Relations. Kent: Kent State University Press. p. 7.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 275.
^ a b c Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 251.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 278.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 282.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 284.
^ a b c Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 255.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 258.
^ a b Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 285.
^ a b c DePalma, Margaret (2004). Dialogue on the Frontier: Catholic and Protestant Relations. Kent: Kent State University Press. pp. 8–12.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 308.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 338.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 337.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 339.
^ Dowley, Tim (2018). A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Minneapolis: Augsburg Fortress. p. 349.
^ "Discrimination in the European Union". Special Eurobarometer. 493. European Commission. 2019. Retrieved 2 June 2020.
^ Wooden, Cindy (25 May 2015). "The devil knows Christians are one, says Pope Francis". Catholic Herald. Archived from the original on 2019-04-26. Retrieved 2020-02-21.
^ "Video message of the Holy Father on the occasion of the Day of Christian Unity [Phoenix, 23 May 2015] | Francis". www.vatican.va. Retrieved 2020-03-07.
^ Sherwood, Harriet (2016-10-31). "Catholics and Lutherans sign joint declaration 'accepting common path'". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 2020-03-08.
^ "Vatican releases postage stamps on Reformation, St. Francis of Sales". Vatican News. 2017-11-23. Retrieved 2020-03-08.
^ Crux Staff (26 November 2017). "Vatican issues stamp featuring Martin Luther for Reformation anniversary". Crux. Retrieved 2020-03-08.
Bibliography[edit]
Central Office of Church Statistics. (2019) "Presentation of the Pontifical Yearbook 2019 and the Annuarium Statisticum Ecclesiae 2017, 06.03.2019," Vatican Press. Retrieved 18 Feb 2020
Dowley, Tim. (2018) A Short Introduction to the History of Christianity. Augsburg Fortress Publishers.
Finn, Daniel. (2013) Christian Economic Ethics: History and Implications. Augsburg Fortress Publishers.
Congar, Yves. (2019) A History of Theology. ATF (Australia) Ltd.
DePalma, Yves (2004). Dialogue on the Frontier: Catholic and Protestant Relations. Kent State University
Pew Research Centre. (2011) "Global Christianity: A Report on the Size and Distribution of the World's Christian Population," Pew Research Centre. Retrieved 18 Feb 2020
vteCatholic Church
Index
Outline
Glossary
Lists of Catholics
History(TimelineEcclesiasticalLegal)Early Church
Jesus
Ministry
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Great Commission
Apostles
Succession
Petrine primacy
Church fathers
Apostolic fathers
History of the papacy
Primacy
Great Church
Ante-Nicene Period
Constantine
First seven ecumenical councils
Nicaea I
Chalcedon
Late antiquity
Biblical canon
Monasticism
Middle Ages
Islamic conquests
Pope Gregory I
Papal States
Schism (1054)
Investiture Controversy
Crusades
Schism (1378)
Inquisition
Universities
Scholasticism
Age of Discovery
Modern era
Protestantism
Protestant Reformation
Catholic Reformation
Trent
Thirty Years' War
Enlightenment
French Revolution
Nazism
Vatican II
Communism
Sexual abuse scandal
Islam
COVID-19 pandemic
Theology(BibleTradition;Catechism)General
God
Trinity
Kingdom
Body and soul
Divine grace
Dogma
Nicene Creed
Original sin
Saints
Salvation
Sermon on the Mount
Ten Commandments
Vulgate
Official Bible
Sixtine Vulgate
Sixto-Clementine Vulgate
Nova Vulgata
Worship
Ecclesiology
Communitas perfecta
Councils
Ecumenism
Four marks
Catholic
Infallibility
Corporis Christi
One true church
People of God
Three states
Subsistit in
In canon law
Sacraments
Baptism
Confirmation
Eucharist
Penance
Anointing of the Sick
Last rites
Holy orders
Matrimony
Mariology
Assumption
History
Immaculate Conception
Mariology of the popes
Mariology of the saints
Mother of God
Perpetual virginity
Veneration
See also:
Josephology
Philosophy
Natural law
Moral theology
Personalism
Social teaching
Philosophers
Philosophy of canon law
See also:
Science
Evolution
Separation of church and state
Relations
Politics
Saints
Holy Family
Mary
Joseph
Patriarchs
Prophets
Archangels
Martyrs
Doctors of the Church
Evangelists
Confessors
Disciples
Virgins
Organisation(HierarchyCanon lawLaityPrecedenceBy country)Holy See(List of popes)
Pope Francis
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI
Ecumenical councils
College of Cardinals
List
Advisers
Roman Curia
Dicasteries
Synod of Bishops
Properties
Vatican City
Index
Outline
Apostolic Palace
Lateran Treaty
Roman Rota
St. Peter's Basilica
Swiss Guard
Vatican Museums
Polity (Holy orders)
Diocese
Episcopal conference
Eparchy
Bishop
Patriarch
Major
Primate
Metropolitan
Archbishop
Diocesan
Coadjutor
Auxiliary
Titular
Emeritus
Parish
Priest
Deacon
Consecrated life
Religious:
Superior
Abbot, Abbess
General
Provincial
Prior, Prioress
Grand Master
Brother
Friar
Monk
Sister
Nun
Hermit
Novice
Master
Oblate
Postulant
Particular churchessui iuris
Latin Church
Eastern Catholic Churches
Albanian
Armenian
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Chaldean
Coptic
Croatian and Serbian
Eritrean
Ethiopian
Georgian
Greek
Hungarian
Italo-Albanian
Macedonian
Maronite
Melkite
Romanian
Russian
Ruthenian
Slovak
Syriac
Syro-Malabar
Syro-Malankara
Ukrainian
Liturgical rites
Alexandrian
Antiochian
Armenian
Byzantine
East Syriac
Latin
Ambrosian
Braga
Mozarabic
Roman
Paul VI
Tridentine
Anglican
Zaire
West Syriac
Malankara
Culture
Art
Marian
Artists
Authors
Church buildings
Altarpieces
Library
Museums
Music
Distinctions
Role in civilisation
See also:
Criticism of the Catholic Church
Anti-Catholicism
Media
Holy See Press Office
Vatican Media
Vatican News
Vatican Television Center
Vatican Radio
Vatican Polyglot Press
L'Osservatore Romano
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Annuario Pontificio
Religious orders,institutes, societies
Assumptionists
Annonciades
Augustinians
Basilians
Benedictines
Bethlehemites
Blue nuns
Camaldoleses
Camillians
Carmelites
Carthusians
Cistercians
Clarisses
Conceptionists
Crosiers
Dominicans
Franciscans
Good Shepherd Sisters
Hieronymites
Jesuits
Mercedarians
Minims
Olivetans
Oratorians
Piarists
Premonstratensians
Redemptorists
Servites
Theatines
Trappists
Trinitarians
Visitandines
Associationsof the faithful
Confraternities
Lay
Marian
Youth
Workers
Third orders
Saint Dominic
Lay Carmelites
Discalced
Saint Francis
Secular
Military orders
Fimcap
Catholic Action
Charismatic Renewal
Communion and Liberation
Sant'Egidio
Focolare
International Alliance of Catholic Knights
Scouting
Legion of Mary
Neocatechumenal Way
Opus Dei
Schoenstatt
Charities
Aid to the Church in Need
Caritas
Home Missions
Relief Services
CIDSE
Pax Christi
Society of Saint Vincent de Paul
See also:
Health care
Schools
Universities
 Catholic Church portal
 Book
 Category
.mw-parser-output .subjectbar{background-color:#f9f9f9;border:1px solid #aaa;clear:both;margin-bottom:0.5em;margin-top:0.5em;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box;font-size:88%}PortalsAccess related topicsCatholicism portalChristianity portalReligion portalBible portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Catholic–Protestant_relations&amp;oldid=973174491"
		Categories: Catholicism-related controversiesHistory of ProtestantismChristianity-related controversiesHistory of CatholicismCatholicism and ProtestantismHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from March 2020
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		Languages
		Add links
		 This page was last edited on 15 August 2020, at 20:08 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
