	Eschatology
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		"Last Things" redirects here. For the C. P. Snow novel, see Strangers and Brothers.
Not to be confused with Scatology.
Part of theology concerned with the final events of history, or the ultimate destiny of humanity
  Four horsemen of the apocalypse, as depicted in the Apocalypse work by Albrecht Dürer
Part of a series onEschatology
Buddhist
Maitreya
Three Ages
Christian
— Biblical texts —
Book of RevelationBook of Daniel
Olivet DiscourseSheep and Goats
— Major figures —
JesusTwo witnesses
Four HorsemenAntichrist
— Different views —
PreterismIdealism
HistoricismFuturism
— Millennialism —
PremillennialismAmillennialism
Postmillennialism
— Other events —
Events of Revelation
RaptureSeven Seals
Second ComingIslamic eschatology
Hindu
Kalki
Kali Yuga
Shiva
Islamic— Figures —
Beast of the Earth
Dhul-Qarnayn
Dhul-Suwayqatayn
Isa
Messiah
Second Coming
Israfil
Mahdi
Dajjal
Muhammad
Al-Qa'im
Sufyani
Yajuj and Majuj
— Events —
Death
Resurrection
Last Judgement
Jewish
Messianism
Book of DanielKabbalah
Taoist
 Li Hong
Zoroastrian
Frashokereti
Saoshyant
Inter-religious
End timesApocalypticism
2012 phenomenon
MillenarianismLast Judgment
Resurrection of the dead
Gog and MagogMessianic Age
vte
Eschatology /ˌɛskəˈtɒlədʒi/ (listen) is a part of theology concerned with the final events of history, or the ultimate destiny of humanity. This concept is commonly referred to as the "end of the world" or "end times".[1]
The word arises from the Greek ἔσχατος eschatos meaning "last" and -logy meaning "the study of", and first appeared in English around 1844.[2] The Oxford English Dictionary defines eschatology as "the part of theology concerned with death, judgment, and the final destiny of the soul and of humankind".[3]
In the context of mysticism, the term refers metaphorically to the end of ordinary reality and to reunion with the Divine. Many[quantify] religions treat eschatology as a future event prophesied in sacred texts or in folklore.
Most[quantify] modern eschatology and apocalypticism, both religious and secular, involves the violent disruption or destruction of the world; Christian and Jewish eschatologies view the end times as the consummation or perfection of God's creation of the world,[4][self-published source?] albeit with violent overtures, such as the Great Tribulation. For example, according to some ancient Hebrew worldviews, reality unfolds along a linear path (or rather, a spiral path, with cyclical components that nonetheless have a linear trajectory); the world began with God and is ultimately headed toward God's final goal for creation, the world to come.[5]
Eschatologies vary as to their degree of optimism or pessimism about the future. In some eschatologies, conditions are better for some and worse for others, e.g. "heaven and hell". They also vary as to time frames. Groups claiming imminent eschatology are also referred to as doomsday cults.
Contents
1 Religion
1.1 Baháʼí  Faith
1.2 Buddhism
1.3 Christianity
1.3.1 Messianic Judaism
1.4 Hinduism
1.5 Islam
1.6 Judaism
1.7 Old Norse religion
1.8 Taoism
1.9 Zoroastrianism
2 Analogies in science and philosophy
2.1 Futures studies and transhumanism
2.2 Astronomy
3 See also
4 References
5 Further reading
6 External links
Religion[edit]
Baháʼí  Faith[edit]
See also: Baháʼí Faith on life after death and Baháʼí teachings
In the Baháʼí Faith, creation has neither a beginning nor an end;[6] Baháʼís regard the eschatologies of other religions as symbolic. In Baháʼí belief, human time is marked by a series of progressive revelations in which successive messengers or prophets come from God.[7] The coming of each of these messengers is seen as the day of judgment to the adherents of the previous religion, who may choose to accept the new messenger and enter the "heaven" of belief, or denounce the new messenger and enter the "hell" of denial. In this view, the terms "heaven" and "hell" become symbolic terms for a person's spiritual progress and their nearness to or distance from God.[7] In Baháʼí belief, the coming of Bahá'u'lláh (1817-1892), the founder of the Baháʼí Faith, signals the fulfilment of previous eschatological expectations of Islam, Christianity and other major religions.[8]
Buddhism[edit]
Main article: Buddhist eschatology
Christianity[edit]
Christian eschatology
Contrasting beliefs
Historicism (Interpretations of Revelation)
Futurism
Preterism
Idealism
Dispensationalism
The Millennium
Amillennialism
Postmillennialism
Premillennialism
 Prewrath Rapture
 Posttribulation Rapture
Dispensationalism
Biblical texts
Daniel
Seventy Weeks
Synoptic Gospels
Olivet Discourse
Mark 13
Matthew 24
Sheep and Goats
Pauline Epistles
2 Thessalonians
Johannine literature
Revelation (Events)
Pseudepigrapha
1 Enoch
2 Esdras
Key terms
Abomination of desolation
Antichrist
Armageddon
The Beast
False prophet
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse
Gog and Magog
Great Apostasy
Great Tribulation
Katechon
Kingdom of God
Lake of fire
Last Judgment
Man of sin
New Heaven and New Earth
New Jerusalem
Number of the Beast
Rapture
Resurrection of the dead
Second Coming
Seven bowls
Seven seals
Son of perdition
Two witnesses
War in Heaven
Whore of Babylon
Woman of the Apocalypse
World to come
Christianity portalvte
Main article: Christian eschatology
Christian eschatology is the study concerned with the ultimate destiny of the individual soul and of the entire created order, based primarily upon biblical texts within the Old and New Testaments.
Christian eschatological research looks to study and discuss matters such as the nature of the Divine and the divine nature of Jesus Christ, death and the afterlife, Heaven and Hell, the  Second Coming of Jesus, the resurrection of the dead, the Rapture, the Tribulation, Millennialism, the end of the world, the Last Judgment, and the New Heaven and New Earth in the world to come.
Eschatological passages occur in many places in the Bible, in both the Old and the New Testaments. In the Old Testament, apocalyptic eschatology can be found notably in Isaiah 24–27, Isaiah 56–66, Joel, Zechariah 9–14 as well as in the closing chapters of Daniel, and in Ezekiel.[9] In the New Testament, applicable passages include Matthew 24, Mark 13, the parable of "The Sheep and the Goats" and the Book of Revelation — Revelation often occupies a central place in Christian eschatology.
The Second Coming of Christ is the central event in Christian eschatology within the broader context of the fullness of the Kingdom of God. Most Christians believe that death and suffering will continue to exist until Christ's return. There are, however, various views concerning the order and significance of other eschatological events.
The Book of Revelation stands at the core of much of Christian eschatology. The study of Revelation is usually divided into four interpretative methodologies or hermeneutics:
The Futurist approach treats the Book of Revelation mostly as unfulfilled prophecy taking place in some yet undetermined future.
The Preterist approach interprets Revelation chiefly as having had prophetic fulfillment in the past, principally in the events of the first century CE.
The Historicist approach to Revelation provides a broad view of history, identifying figures and passages in Revelation with major historical people and events. This is the view Jewish scholars held,[clarification needed] along with the early Christian church, and it was prevalent in the writings of Wycliffe[10][need quotation to verify] (died 1384) and of other Reformers such as Martin Luther[11][12] (1483-1546), John Calvin[13] (1509-1564), and John Wesley[14] (1703-1791).Other supporters of this view include Sir Isaac Newton[15] (1642-1727) and many others.[16]
The Idealist approach sees the events of Revelation as neither past nor future actualities, but as purely symbolic accounts, dealing with the ongoing struggle and ultimate triumph of good over evil.
Messianic Judaism[edit]
Main article: Messianic Jewish theology § Eschatology
Hinduism[edit]
Main article: Hindu eschatology
The Vaishnavite tradition links contemporary Hindu eschatology to the figure of Kalki, the tenth and last avatar of Vishnu. Before the age draws to a close Kalki will reincarnate as Shiva and simultaneously dissolve and regenerate the universe.
Most Hindus believe that the current period is the Kali Yuga, the last of four Yuga that make up the current age. Each period has seen successive degeneration in the moral order, to the point that in the Kali Yuga quarrel and hypocrisy are the norm. In Hinduism, time is cyclic, consisting of cycles or "kalpas". Each kalpa lasts for 4.32 billion years and is followed by a pralaya of equal length, which together makes one full day and night of Brahma's 100 360-year lifespan, who lives for 311 trillion, 40 billion years. The cycle of birth, growth, decay, and renewal at the individual level finds its echo in the cosmic order, yet is affected by vagaries of divine intervention in Vaishnavite belief.
Some Shaivites hold the view that Shiva is incessantly destroying and creating the world.[citation needed]
Islam[edit]
Main article: Islamic eschatology
The sayings of the Prophet Muhammad regarding the Signs of the Day of Judgement document Islamic eschatology.   Diagram of "Plain of Assembly"(Ard al-Hashr) on the Day of Judgment, from autograph manuscript of Futuhat al-Makkiyya by Sufi mystic and philosopher Ibn Arabi, ca. 1238. Shown are the 'Arsh (Throne of God), pulpits for the righteous (al-Aminun), seven rows of angels, Gabriel (al-Ruh), A'raf (the Barrier), the Pond of Abundance, al-Maqam al-Mahmud (the Praiseworthy Station; where the prophet Muhammad will stand to intercede for the faithful), Mizan (the Scale), As-Sirāt (the Bridge), Jahannam (Hell) and Marj al-Jannat (Meadow of Paradise).[17]
The Prophet's sayings on the subject have been traditionally divided[by whom?] into Major and Minor Signs. He spoke about several Minor Signs of the approach of the Day of Judgment, including:
Abu Hurairah reported that Muhammad said: "If you survive for a time you would certainly see people who would have whips in their hands like the tail of an ox. They would get up in the morning under the wrath of God and they would go into the evening with the anger of God."[citation needed]
Abu Hurairah narrated that Muhammad said, "When honesty is lost, then wait for the Day of Judgment." It was asked, "How will honesty be lost, O Messenger of God?" He said, "When authority is given to those who do not deserve it, then wait for the Day of Judgment."[citation needed]
'Umar ibn al-Khattāb, in a long narration relating to the questions of the angel Gabriel, reported: "Inform me when the Day of Judgment will be." He [the Prophet Muhammad] remarked: "The one who is being asked knows no more than the inquirer." He [the inquirer] said: "Tell me about its indications." He [the Prophet Muhammad] said: "That the slave-girl gives birth to her mistress and master, and that you would find barefooted, destitute shepherds of goats vying with one another in the construction of magnificent buildings."[citation needed]
"Before the Day of Judgment there will be great liars, so beware of them."[citation needed]
"When the most wicked member of a tribe becomes its ruler, and the most worthless member of a community becomes its leader, and a man is respected through fear of the evil he may do, and leadership is given to people who are unworthy of it, expect the Day of Judgment."[citation needed]
Regarding the Major Signs, a Companion of the Prophet narrated: "Once we were sitting together and talking amongst ourselves when the Prophet appeared. He asked us what it was we were discussing. We said it was the Day of Judgment. He said: 'It will not be called until ten signs have appeared: Smoke(Ad Dukhan), Dajjal (the Antichrist), the creature (that will wound the people), the rising of the sun in the West, the Second Coming of Jesus, the emergence of Gog and Magog, and three sinkings (or cavings in of the earth): one in the East, another in the West and a third in the Arabian Peninsula.'" (note: the previous events were not listed[by whom?] in the chronological order of appearance)[citation needed]
Judaism[edit]
Main article: Jewish eschatology
Jewish eschatology discusses events that will happen in the end of days, according to the Hebrew Bible and Jewish thought. This includes the ingathering of the exiled diaspora, the coming of the Jewish Messiah, afterlife, and the revival of the dead Tzadikim.
Judaism usually refers to the end times as the "end of days" (aḥarit ha-yamim, אחרית הימים), a phrase that appears several times in the Tanakh. The idea of a messianic age has a prominent place in Jewish thought and is incorporated as part of the end of days.
Judaism addresses the end times in the Book of Daniel and in numerous other prophetic passages in the Hebrew scriptures, and also in the Talmud, particularly Tractate Avodah Zarah.
Old Norse religion[edit]
Main article: Ragnarök
Taoism[edit]
Main article: Taoist eschatology
Zoroastrianism[edit]
Main article: Frashokereti
Frashokereti is the Zoroastrian doctrine of a final renovation of the universe when evil will be destroyed, and everything else will then be in perfect unity with God (Ahura Mazda). The doctrinal premises are:
Good will eventually prevail over evil.
Creation, initially perfectly good, was subsequently corrupted by evil.
The world will ultimately be restored to the perfection it had at the time of creation.
The "salvation for the individual depended on the sum of [that person's] thoughts, words and deeds, and there could be no intervention, whether compassionate or capricious, by any divine being to alter this". Thus each human bears the responsibility for the fate of his own soul, and simultaneously shares in the responsibility for the fate of the world.[18]
Analogies in science and philosophy[edit]
Main article: Global catastrophic risk
Futures studies and transhumanism[edit]
Researchers in futures studies and transhumanists investigate how the accelerating rate of scientific progress may lead to a "technological singularity" in the future that would profoundly and unpredictably change the course of human history, and result in Homo sapiens no longer being the dominant life form on Earth.[19][20][improper synthesis?]
Astronomy[edit]
  A diagram showing the life cycle of the Sun
See also: Future of Earth, Future of an expanding universe, and Ultimate fate of the universe
Occasionally the term "physical eschatology" is applied to the long-term predictions of astrophysics.[21][22] The Sun will turn into a red giant in approximately 6 billion years.  Life on Earth will become impossible due to a rise in temperature long before the planet is actually swallowed up by the Sun.[23] Even later, the Sun will become a white dwarf.
See also[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Philosophy portal
Religion portal
Abomination of Desolation
Ancient Aztec eschatology
Apocalypse
Armageddon
Cosmogony
The Day of the Lord
List of dates predicted for apocalyptic events
Doomsday cult
Eschatology (religious movement)
Götterdämmerung
Judgment day
Millennialism
Millenarianism
Messianism
Ragnarök
Realized eschatology
Ussher chronology
Whore of Babylon
List of eschatological topics
References[edit]
^ "BBC - Religions - Christianity: End Times". BBC Online. 2011-07-19. Retrieved 2017-11-10..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ Dictionary – Definition of Eschatology. Webster's Online Dictionary.
^ "Eschatology, n.", def. a, Oxford English Dictionary. Retrieved 2016-05-18.
^ Williams, Sean (2009). The Big Picture. Making Sense Out of Life and Religion. Lulu.com. p. 91. ISBN 9780578015231.[self-published source]
^ 
Sofroniou, Andreas (2017). p. 77.
^ Smith, Peter (2008). An Introduction to the Baha'i Faith. Cambridge University Press. p. 112. ISBN 0-521-86251-5.
^ a b Smith, Peter (2000). "Eschatology". A concise encyclopedia of the Baháʼí Faith. Oxford: Oneworld Publications. pp. 133–134. ISBN 1-85168-184-1.
^ Buck, Christopher (2004). "The Eschatology of Globalization: The Multiple Messiahship of Bahá'u'lláh Revisited (pp. 143–178)".  In Sharon, Moshe (ed.). Studies in Modern Religions, Religious Movements and the Bābī-Bahā'ī Faiths. Boston: Brill. ISBN 9004139044.
^ Bauckham, R. J. (1996). "Apocalyptic". In D. R. W. Wood, I. H. Marshall, A. R. Millard, J. I. Packer, &amp; D. J. Wiseman (Eds.), New Bible Dictionary (3rd ed., p. 53). Leicester, England; Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.
^ Tyndale, William, Parable of the Wicked Mammon, c. 1526, (facsimile copy of later printing, no ISBN number, Benediction Classics, 2008)at pages 4-5
^ Luther, Martin, "Sermon for the Twenty-Fifth Sunday after Trinity; Matthew 24:15-28", Church Postil, 1525
^ J. H. Merle D'aubigne's  History of the Reformation of the Sixteen Century, book vi, chapter xii, p. 215.
^ Calvin, John, "Lecture Fifty-Second", Commentary on Daniel, Volume
^ "Explanatory Notes on the Whole Bible: Matthew: Matthew Chapter 24". www.sacred-texts.com.
^ All Roads Lead to Rome,  by Michael de Semlyen. Dorchestor House Publications, p. 205. 1991
^ Gregg, Steven (1997). Revelation: Four Views. Nashville, Tennessee: Thomas Nelson Publishing. p. 34. ISBN 978-0840721280.
^ Begley, Wayne E. The Garden of the Taj Mahal: A Case Study of Mughal Architectural Planning and Symbolism, in: Wescoat, James L.; Wolschke-Bulmahn, Joachim (1996). Mughal Gardens: Sources, Places, Representations, and Prospects Dumbarton Oaks, Washington D.C., ISBN 0884022358. pp. 229-231.
^ 
Boyce, Mary (1979), Zoroastrians: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices, London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul, pp. 27–29, ISBN 978-0-415-23902-8.
^ Sandberg, Anders. An overview of models of technological singularity
^ "h+ Magazine | Covering technological, scientific, and cultural trends that are changing human beings in fundamental ways". Hplusmagazine.com. Archived from the original on 2010-12-23. Retrieved 2011-09-09.
^ Ćirković, Milan M. "Resource letter: PEs-1: physical eschatology." American Journal of Physics 71.2 (2003): 122–133.
^ Baum, Seth D. "Is humanity doomed? Insights from astrobiology." Sustainability 2.2 (2010): 591–603.
^ Zeilik, M.A.; Gregory, S.A. (1998). Introductory Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics (4th ed.). Saunders College Publishing. p. 322. ISBN 0-03-006228-4.
Further reading[edit]
Craig C. Hill, In God's Time: The Bible and the Future, Grand Rapids: Eerdmans 2002. ISBN 0-8028-6090-7
Dave Hunt, A Cup of Trembling, Harvest House Publishers, Eugene, (Oregon) 1995 ISBN 1-56507-334-7.
Jonathan Menn, Biblical Eschatology, Eugene, Oregon, Wipf &amp; Stock 2013. ISBN 978-1-62032-579-7.
Joseph Ratzinger., Eschatology: Death and Eternal Life, Washington D.C.: Catholic University of America Press 1985. ISBN 978-0-8132-1516-7.
Robert Sungenis, Scott Temple, David Allen Lewis, Shock Wave 2000! subtitled The Harold Camping 1994 Debacle, New Leaf Press, Inc. 2004 ISBN 0-89221-269-1
Stephen Travis, Christ Will Come Again: Hope for the Second Coming of Jesus, Toronto: Clements Publishing 2004. ISBN 1-894667-33-6
Jerry L. Walls (ed.), The Oxford Handbook of Eschatology, New York: Oxford University Press 2008. ISBN 978-0-19-973588-4
External links[edit]
Catholic Encyclopedia: Eschatology
Jewish Encyclopedia: Eschatology
.mw-parser-output .subjectbar{background-color:#f9f9f9;border:1px solid #aaa;clear:both;margin-bottom:0.5em;margin-top:0.5em;width:100%;box-sizing:border-box;font-size:88%}Find out more onWikipedia'sSister projectsMediafrom CommonsDefinitionsfrom WiktionaryQuotationsfrom WikiquoteSource textsfrom WikisourceDatafrom Wikidata
vteGlobal catastrophic risks
Future of the Earth
Future of an expanding universe
Ultimate fate of the universe
Technological
Chemical warfare
Cyberattack
Cyberwarfare
Cyberterrorism
Cybergeddon
Doomsday Clock
Gray goo
Kinetic bombardment
Mutual assured destruction
Dead Hand
Doomsday device
Antimatter weapon
Nuclear warfare
Safety of high-energy particle collision experiments
Micro black hole
Strangelet
Synthetic intelligence / Artificial intelligence
Existential risk from artificial intelligence
AI takeover
Technological singularity
Transhumanism
Year 2000 problem
Year 2038 problem
Year 10,000 problem
Sociological
Doomsday argument
Self-Indication Assumption Doomsday argument rebuttal
Self-referencing doomsday argument rebuttal
Economic collapse
Malthusian catastrophe
New World Order (conspiracy theory)
Nuclear holocaust
winter
famine
cobalt
Societal collapse
Collapsology
World War III
EcologicalClimate change
Anoxic event
Biodiversity loss
Mass mortality event
Cascade effect
Cataclysmic pole shift hypothesis
Climate apocalypse
Deforestation
Desertification
Extinction risk from global warming
Tipping points in the climate system
Flood basalt
Global dimming
Global terrestrial stilling
Global warming
Hypercane
Ice age
Ecocide
Ecological collapse
Environmental degradation
Habitat destruction
Human impact on the environment
coral reefs
on marine life
Land degradation
Land consumption
Land surface effects on climate
Ocean acidification
Ozone depletion
Resource depletion
Sea level rise
Supervolcano
winter
Verneshot
Water pollution
Water scarcity
Earth Overshoot Day
Overexploitation
Overpopulation
Human overpopulation
BiologicalExtinction
Extinction event
Holocene extinction
Human extinction
List of extinction events
Genetic erosion
Genetic pollution
Others
Biodiversity loss
Decline in amphibian populations
Decline in insect populations
Biotechnology risk
Biological agent
Biological warfare
Bioterrorism
Colony Collapse Disorder
Defaunation
Dysgenics
Interplanetary contamination
Pandemic
Pollinator decline
Overfishing
Astronomical
Big Crunch
Big Rip
Coronal mass ejection
False vacuum
Gamma-ray burst
Heat death of the universe
Impact event
Asteroid impact avoidance
Asteroid impact prediction
Potentially hazardous object
Near-Earth object
winter
Near-Earth supernova
Solar flare
Stellar collision
MythologicalEschatology
Buddhist
Maitreya
Three Ages
Hindu
Kalki
Kali Yuga
Last Judgement
Second Coming
1 Enoch
Daniel
Abomination of Desolation
Prophecy of Seventy Weeks
Messiah
Christian
Dispensationalism
Futurism
Historicism
Interpretations of Revelation
 Idealism
Preterism
2 Esdras
2 Thessalonians
Man of sin
Katechon
Antichrist
Book of Revelation
Events
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse
Lake of fire
Number of the Beast
Seven bowls
Seven seals
The Beast
Two witnesses
War in Heaven
Whore of Babylon
Great Apostasy
New Earth
New Jerusalem
Olivet Discourse
Great Tribulation
Son of Perdition
Sheep and Goats
Islamic
Al-Qa'im
Beast of the Earth
Dhul-Qarnayn
Dhul-Suwayqatayn
Dajjal
Israfil
Mahdi
Sufyani
Jewish
Messiah
War of Gog and Magog
Third Temple
Norse
Zoroastrian
Saoshyant
Others
2011 end times prediction
2012 phenomenon
Apocalypse
Apocalypticism
Armageddon
Blood moon prophecy
Earth Changes
End time
Gog and Magog
List of dates predicted for apocalyptic events
Messianism
Messianic Age
Millenarianism
Millennialism
Premillennialism
Amillennialism
Postmillennialism
Nemesis (hypothetical star)
Nibiru cataclysm
Rapture
Prewrath
Post-tribulation rapture
Resurrection of the dead
Revelation 12 sign prophecy
World to come
Fictional
Alien invasion
Apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction
List of apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction
List of apocalyptic films
Climate fiction
Disaster films
List of disaster films
List of fictional doomsday devices
Zombie apocalypse
Zombie
 Categories
Apocalypticism
Future problems
Hazards
Risk analysis
Doomsday scenarios
vteTime in religion and mythology
Calendar
Deities
Destiny
Divination
Eschatology
Eternity
Golden Age
Prophecy
Wheel of the Year
Yuga
vteTheologyConceptions of GodTheismForms
Deism
Dystheism
Henotheism
Hermeticism
Kathenotheism
Nontheism
Monolatry
Monotheism
Mysticism
Panentheism
Pandeism
Pantheism
Polydeism
Polytheism
Spiritualism
Theistic finitism
Theopanism
Concepts
Deity
Divinity
Gender of God and gods
Male deity
Goddess
Numen
Singular godtheologiesBy faith
Abrahamic religions
Baháʼí Faith
Judaism
Christianity
Catholic
Islam
Buddhism
Hinduism
Jainism
Sikhism
Zoroastrianism
Concepts
Absolute
Brahman
Emanationism
Logos
Supreme Being
God as
the Devil
Sustainer
Time
Trinitarianism
Athanasian Creed
Comma Johanneum
Consubstantiality
Homoousian
Homoiousian
Hypostasis
Perichoresis
Shield of the Trinity
Trinitarian formula
Trinity
Trinity of the Church Fathers
Trinitarian universalism
Eschatology
Afterlife
Apocalypticism
Buddhist
Christian
Heaven
Hell
Hindu
Islamic
Jewish
Taoist
Zoroastrian
Feminist
Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism
Mormonism
Goddesses
Other concepts
The All
Aristotelian view
Attributes of God in Christianity / in Islam
Binitarianism
Demiurge
Divine simplicity
Divine presence
Egotheism
Exotheology
Holocaust
Godhead in Christianity
Latter Day Saints
Great Architect of the Universe
Great Spirit
Apophatic theology
Olelbis
Open theism
Personal god
Phenomenological definition
Philo's view
Process
Tian
Unmoved mover
Names of God in
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Jainism
Judaism
By faithChristian
History
Outline
Biblical canon
Glossary
Christology
Cosmology
Ecclesiology
Ethics
Hamartiology
Messianism
Nestorianism
Philosophy
Practical
Sophiology
Soteriology
Hindu
Ayyavazhi theology
Krishnology
Islamic
Oneness of God
Prophets
Holy Scriptures
Angels
Predestination
Last Judgment
Jewish
Abrahamic prophecy
Aggadah
Denominations
Kabbalah
Philosophy
 Religion portal
Authority control 
BNF: cb11953420b (data)
GND: 4015508-0
NDL: 00572423
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eschatology&amp;oldid=982755130"
		Categories: EschatologyProphecyMythologyHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles with hAudio microformatsPages including recorded pronunciationsArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2018All articles with self-published sourcesArticles with self-published sources from February 2020Wikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2020Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from July 2020Articles with unsourced statements from July 2020Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2020Articles with unsourced statements from August 2015Articles that may contain original research from September 2016Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote
		Languages
		AfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাБългарскиBosanskiCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançais한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitutÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųMagyarMalagasyമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPicardPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRumantschРусскийShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 10 October 2020, at 04:01 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
