	Foreign relations of Trinidad and Tobago
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		Trinidad and Tobago
This article is part of a series on thepolitics and government ofTrinidad and Tobago
Government
President (list)
Paula-Mae Weekes
Prime Minister
Keith Rowley
Parliament
Senate
President
Bridgid Annisette-George
House of Representatives
Speaker
Christine Kangaloo
Leader of the Opposition
Kamla Persad-Bissessar
Judiciary
Supreme Court
Chief Justice: Ivor Archie
Court of Appeal
High Court
Magistracy
Family Court
Privy Council committee (UK)
Elections
Recent elections
Presidential: 200820132018
General: 201020152020
Local (Trinidad): 201320162019
Local (Tobago): 201320172021
Political parties
Local government
Administrative divisions
Former counties
Tobago House of Assembly
Foreign relations
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Minister: Dennis Moses
Diplomatic missions of / in Trinidad and Tobago
Passport
Visa requirements
Visa policy
 Trinidad and Tobago portal 
Other countries
vte
Modern Trinidad and Tobago maintains close relations with its Caribbean neighbours and major North American and European trading partners. As the most industrialized and second-largest country in the English-speaking Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago has taken a leading role in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and strongly supports CARICOM economic integration efforts. It also is active in the Summit of the Americas process and supports the establishment of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, lobbying other nations for seating the Secretariat in Port of Spain.
As a member of CARICOM, Trinidad and Tobago strongly backed efforts by the United States to bring political stability to Haiti, contributing personnel to the Multinational Force in 1994. After its 1962 independence, Trinidad and Tobago joined the United Nations and Commonwealth of Nations. In 1967, it became the first Commonwealth country to join the Organization of American States (OAS). In 1995, Trinidad played host to the inaugural meeting of the Association of Caribbean States and has become the seat of this 35-member grouping, which seeks to further economic progress and integration among its states.
In international forums, Trinidad and Tobago has defined itself as having an independent voting record, but often supports U.S. and EU positions.
Trinidad and Tobago has historically been a trans-shipment point for South American drugs destined for the United States and Europe. This has created much tension in the country's politics.
Trinidad and Tobago is also a member-state of the International Criminal Court, without a Bilateral Immunity Agreement of protection for the U.S. military (as covered under Article 98)
Contents
1 Trinidad and Tobago and the Commonwealth of Nations
2 Bilateral relations
3 International organisations
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Trinidad and Tobago and the Commonwealth of Nations[edit]
Trinidad and Tobago became an independent state in 1962 with Queen Elizabeth II as Queen of Trinidad and Tobago. She was represented by the Governor-General of Trinidad and Tobago.
In 1976, Trinidad and Tobago became a Commonwealth republic with the last Governor-General, Sir Ellis Clarke becoming the first President of Trinidad and Tobago.
Bilateral relations[edit]
Country
Formal Relations Began
Notes
 Armenia
See Armenia–Trinidad and Tobago relations
 Australia
7 January 1974
See Australia–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Australia has a high commission in Port of Spain.
 Barbados
See Barbados–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Barbados maintains non-resident representation to Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago maintains non-resident representation to Bridgetown.
 Belize
21 September 1981
Both countries established diplomatic relations on September 21, 1981.[1]
Both countries are full members of the Organization of American States and of the Caribbean Community.
 Brazil
See Brazil-Trinidad and Tobago relations
Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago enjoy a cordial and active relation. The establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries started in 1942 with the establishment of a Brazilian Vice-Consulate in Port-of-Spain, where later the Brazilian Embassy was open in 1965. Several mutual visits of Heads of State have occurred starting in 2008, when a MOU for cooperation on energy industry was signed.[2]
 Canada
August 31, 1962
See Canada–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Both Countries established diplomatic relations in August 1962. Canada currently has 68,000 Trinidad and Tobagoan immigrants.
Canada has a High Commission in Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago has a High Commission in Ottawa and a consulate-general in Toronto.
 Chile
See Chile-Trinidad and Tobago relations
Trinidad has a consulate in Santiago while Chile has an embassy in Port of Spain
 China
20 June 1974
See China–Trinidad and Tobago relations
China has an embassy in Port of Spain
Trinidad and Tobago has an embassy in Beijing
 Croatia
14 December 2011
Both countries established diplomatic relations on December 14, 2011.[3][4]
 Cuba
8 December 1972
See Cuba–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Cuba has an embassy in Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago has an embassy in Havana.
 Cyprus
Cyprus is represented in Trinidad and Tobago by its embassy in New York.[5]
Both countries are full members of the Commonwealth of Nations.
 France
See France–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Bilateral relations between the countries France and Trinidad and Tobago have existed for about two hundred years.[6] Currently, France has an embassy in Port of Spain. Trinidad and Tobago is represented in France through its embassy in Brussels (Belgium). Trinidad and Tobago also has bilateral investment agreements with France.[7]
 Georgia
Georgia is represented in Trinidad and Tobago by its embassy in Brasilia.[8]
 Guyana
26 May 1966
See Guyana-Trinidad and Tobago relations
Both Nations formally established diplomatic relations on 26 May 1966. The two share many similarities between each other due to their shared history in the Commonwealth of Nations along with having similar language, culture, demographics and religions. Both countries had substantial numbers of indentured servants from India and slaves from Africa imported into their country. In the 1970s, Trinidad and Tobago gave Guyana substantial oil exports on credit and in the 1990s, forgave hundred of millions of dollars of debt under the Paris Club Agreement. In 2017, Guyana established its first High Commission in Port of Spain. In 2018, Both countries signed a MOU(Memorandum of Understanding) on Energy Cooperation.
 India
See India–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Both nations formally established diplomatic relations in 1962.[9] Republic of India operates a High Commission in Port of Spain,[10] whilst Republic of Trinidad and Tobago operates a High Commission in New Delhi.[11]
 Israel
1962
Both countries established diplomatic relations in January 1962. The country is among the staunchest supporters of Israel in the Caribbean[12]
 Jamaica
See Jamaica–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Jamaica has a High Commission in Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago has a High Commission in Kingston.
 Malta
24 September 2009
Both countries established diplomatic relations on September 24, 2009.[13]
Both countries are full members of the Commonwealth of Nations.
 Mexico
30 April 1966
See Mexico–Trinidad and Tobago relations
Mexico has an embassy in Port of Spain.[14]
Trinidad and Tobago is accredited to Mexico from its embassy in Washington, D.C., United States.[15]
 Nigeria
Nigeria has a High Commission in Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago has a High Commission in Abuja.
 Peru
See Peru-Trinidad and Tobago relations
Peru has an embassy in Port of Spain
Trinidad and Tobago has a Consulate in Lima
 Russia
6 June 1974
See Russia–Trinidad and Tobago relations
The Soviet Union and Trinidad and Tobago have signed diplomatic missions on June 6, 1974. Both countries have interests with each other since the Soviet Union. In August 1992, Trinidad recognized Russia as the USSR's successor. Currently, Russia is represented in Trinidad and Tobago through a non-resident embassy in Georgetown (Guyana). In 2004, Sergey Lavrov and Knowlson Gift signed the protocol on the political consultations between the two Ministries. In April 2005 the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation and the Chamber of Industry and Commerce of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago signed the cooperation agreement.[16] In 2004, the Russian Cossack folk dance had nine concerts in Port of Spain, San Fernando, Couva, and Tobago.
 Serbia
1974
Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1974.[17]
Both countries have a number of bilateral agreements.[18]
 Singapore
1971
See Singapore-Trinidad and Tobago relations
Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1971.
Singapore was Trinidad and Tobago's 3rd largest import partner in 2015.
 Solomon Islands
2014
Both countries established diplomatic relations in 2014.[19]
 South Korea
23 July 1985
The establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Korea and Trinidad and Tobago started 23 July 1985.[20]
 South Africa
10 January 1995
See South Africa-Trinidad and Tobago relations
South Africa has a High Commission in Port of Spain.
Trinidad and Tobago has a High Commission in Pretoria.
 Spain
See Spain–Trinidad and Tobago relations
 Turkey
Turkey has an embassy in Port of Spain.
 United Kingdom
31 August 1962
See Trinidad and Tobago–United Kingdom relations
Trinidad and Tobago has a High Commission in London.
The United Kingdom has a High Commission in Port of Spain.
 United States
See Trinidad and Tobago–United States relations
  United States embassy in Port of Spain.
The United States and Trinidad and Tobago enjoy cordial relations. U.S. interests there and throughout the hemisphere focus on increasing investment and trade, and ensuring more stable supplies of energy. They also include enhancing Trinidad and Tobago's political and social stability and positive regional role through assistance in drug interdiction, health issues, and legal affairs. The U.S. embassy was established in Port of Spain in 1962, replacing the former consulate-general.
Trinidad and Tobago has an embassy in Washington, D.C..
United States has an embassy in Port of Spain.
 Venezuela
See Trinidad and Tobago-Venezuela Relations
Trinidad and Tobago has an embassy in Caracas.
Venezuela has an embassy in Port of Spain.
International organisations[edit]
On its independence in 1962, Trinidad and Tobago joined the United Nations and the Commonwealth of Nations. In 1967, it became the first Commonwealth country to join the Organization of American States (OAS).
In 1995, Trinidad played host to the inaugural meeting of the Association of Caribbean States and has become the seat of this 35-member grouping, which seeks to further economic progress and integration among its states.
As the most industrialized and second-largest country in the English-speaking Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago has taken a leading role in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and strongly supports CARICOM economic integration efforts. It also is active in the Summit of the Americas process and supports the establishment of the Free Trade Area of the Americas, lobbying other nations for seating the Secretariat in Port of Spain. As a member of CARICOM, Trinidad and Tobago strongly backed efforts by the United States to bring political stability to Haiti, contributing personnel to the Multinational Force in 1994.
Trinidad and Tobago is also a member-state of the International Criminal Court, without a Bilateral Immunity Agreement of protection for the U.S. military (as covered under Article 98).
See also[edit]
List of diplomatic missions in Trinidad and Tobago
List of diplomatic missions of Trinidad and Tobago
Trinidad and Tobago passport
War on Drugs
References[edit]
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-12-30. Retrieved 2019-02-24.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link).mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "República de Trinidad e Tobago". www.itamaraty.gov.br. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "MVEP • Date of Recognition and Establishment of Diplomatic Relations". www.mvep.hr. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "MVEP • Overview of Bilateral Treaties of the Republic of Croatia by Country". www.mvep.hr. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS - Cyprus Diplomatic Missions Abroad". www.mfa.gov.cy. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ Sahadeo Basdeo and Graeme Mount (2001). The Foreign Relations of Trinidad and Tobago (1962-2000). Lexicon. ISBN 976-631-023-8. The French presence in Trinidad and Tobago dates back two centuries. It is not surprising that French influence ...CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
^ World trade and arbitration materials v. 11, nos. 1-3 (Werner Pub. Co., 1999), 24.
^ "საქართველოს საგარეო საქმეთა სამინისტრო - Home". mfa.gov.ge. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "About Trinidad and Tobago - The High Commission of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago". Archived from the original on 20 February 2015. Retrieved 21 February 2015.
^ "Hcipos.in". www.hcipos.in. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ Trinidad and Tobago High Commission in New Delhi Archived 2015-04-29 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-04-20. Retrieved 2014-07-28.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ foreignaffairs.gov.mt https://foreignaffairs.gov.mt/default.aspx?aspxerrorpath=/mt/Archives/Pages/Establishment-of-Diplomatic-Relations-between-Malta-and-the-Republic-of-Trinidad-and-Tobago.aspx. Retrieved 2020-07-20. Missing or empty |title= (help)
^ "Inicio". embamex.sre.gob.mx. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "Embassy in Washington D.C., U.S.A." Ministry of Foreign and CARICOM Affairs. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "Embassy of the Russian Federation in Georgetown about relations with Trinidad and Tobago". Archived from the original on 2012-02-16. Retrieved 2009-07-13.
^ "Bilateral Issues with Foreign Countries". Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia.
^ "TRADE AGREEMENT /SFRY-TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO". 20 October 1996.
^ "TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ESTABLISHES DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH SOLOMON ISLANDS". Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales Secretaria General. Retrieved 2020-07-20.
^ "외교부 바로가기주소". Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
External links[edit]
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
vteForeign relations of the Commonwealth of NationsMember states
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
Bahamas
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Botswana
Brunei
Cameroon
Canada
Cyprus
Dominica
Eswatini
Fiji
Gambia
Ghana
Grenada
Guyana
Hong Kong
India
Jamaica
Kenya
Kiribati
Lesotho
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Malta
Mauritius
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
New Zealand
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Solomon Islands
South Africa
South Sudan
Sri Lanka
Tanzania
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tuvalu
Uganda
United Kingdom
Vanuatu
Zambia
Former Member states
Ireland
Zimbabwe
Foreign states
China
France
Germany
Japan
Russia
United States
Intergovernmental Organisations
European Union
United Nations
vte Foreign relations of Trinidad and TobagoAfrica
South Africa
Americas
Barbados
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Cuba
Dominica
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
Mexico
Peru
Saint Lucia
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Suriname
United States
Venezuela
Asia
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
China
India
Japan
Singapore
Turkey
Europe
France
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom
Oceania
Australia
Internationalorganizations
CARICOM
United Nations
Related topics
Diplomatic missions of / in Trinidad and Tobago
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, official website
vteForeign relations of the CaribbeanWest IndiesAntillesGreaterAntilles
Cayman Islands
Cuba
Jamaica
Navassa Island
Puerto Rico
Hispaniola
Dominican Republic
Haiti
LesserAntillesLeewardIslands
Anguilla
Antigua and Barbuda
Guadeloupe
La Désirade
Les Saintes
Marie-Galante
Montserrat
Saba^ *
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Sint Eustatius^ *
St. Martinisland
Saint Martin
Sint Maarten^
VirginIslands
British Virgin Islands
Spanish Virgin Islands
U.S. Virgin Islands
SouthernCaribbean
Barbados†
Trinidad and Tobago†
LeewardAntilles
Federal Dependencies
Nueva Esparta
ABC islands
Aruba
Bonaire*
Curaçao
WindwardIslands
Dominica
Grenada
Carriacou and Petite Martinique
Martinique
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
LucayanArchipelago
Bahamas
Turks and Caicos Islands
Scattered islands inthe Caribbean Sea
Aves Island
San Andrés and Providencia
Bajo Nuevo Bank~
Serranilla Bank~
Caribbean coast ofNorth America
Belize
Honduras
Bay Islands
Izabal
Limón
Nicaragua
Corn Islands
Panama
Quintana Roo
Cozumel
Caribbean coast ofSouth America
Caribbean region
Venezuela
Somewhat areincludedNorthAtlantic Ocean
Bermuda#
YucatánPeninsula
Campeche
Petén
Yucatán
The Guianas
Amapá
French Guiana
Guayana Region
Guyana
Guayana Esequiba&amp;
Suriname
N.B.: Territories in italics are parts of transregional sovereign states or non-sovereign dependencies.
^ These three Dutch Caribbean territories form the SSS islands.
* These three Dutch Caribbean territories form the BES islands.
† Physiographically, these are continental islands not a part of the volcanic Windward Islands arc. However, based on proximity, these islands are sometimes grouped with the Windward Islands culturally and politically.
~ Disputed territories administered by Colombia.
# Physiographically, Bermuda is an isolated oceanic island in the North Atlantic Ocean, not a part of the Antilles, West Indies, Caribbean, North American continent or South American continent. Usually grouped with Northern American countries based on proximity; occasionally grouped with the Caribbean region culturally.
&amp; Disputed territory administered by Guyana.
vteForeign relations in the Americas
North America
Caribbean
Central America
Northern America
South America
Sovereign states
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bolivia
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Suriname
Trinidad and Tobago
United States
Uruguay
Venezuela
Dependencies andother territories
Anguilla
Aruba
Bermuda
Bonaire
British Virgin Islands
Cayman Islands
Curaçao
Falkland Islands
French Guiana
Greenland
Guadeloupe
Martinique
Montserrat
Puerto Rico
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saba
Sint Eustatius
Sint Maarten
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands
US Virgin Islands
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Foreign_relations_of_Trinidad_and_Tobago&amp;oldid=980864488"
		Categories: Foreign relations of Trinidad and TobagoTrinidad and Tobago and the Commonwealth of NationsHidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as titleCS1 maint: uses authors parameterWebarchive template wayback linksPages with citations lacking titlesPages with citations having bare URLs
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		Русский
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 28 September 2020, at 22:28 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
