	Dragon boat
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		This article is about Dragon boats and racing. For the festivals and holidays associated with dragon boats, see Duanwu Festival.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Dragon boat" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR  (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Dragon Boat RacingDragon boat moving across the Danube river in Budapest, HungaryHighest governing bodyInternational Dragon Boat FederationFirst developedAncient ChinaCharacteristicsContactNoTeam members22 (regulation)TypeCanoe sportEquipmentDragon boat, paddles, drumPresenceCountry or regionWorldwideOlympicNoWorld Games2005 (invitational), 2009 (invitational)
Dragon boatTraditional Chinese龍舟Simplified Chinese龙舟TranscriptionsStandard MandarinHanyu PinyinlóngzhōuSouthern MinHokkien POJlêng-chiuAlternative Chinese nameTraditional Chinese龍船Simplified Chinese龙船TranscriptionsStandard MandarinHanyu PinyinlóngchuánYue: CantoneseYale RomanizationlùhngsyùhnSouthern MinHokkien POJliông-chûn
A dragon boat is a human-powered watercraft originating from the Pearl River Delta region of China's southern Guangdong Province. These were made of teak, but in other parts of China, different kinds of wood are used. It is one of a family of traditional paddled long boats found throughout Asia, Africa, the Pacific islands, and Puerto Rico. The sport of dragon boat racing has its roots in an ancient folk ritual of contending villagers, which dates back 2000 years throughout southern China, and even further to the original games of Olympia in ancient Greece. Both dragon boat racing and the ancient Olympiad included aspects of religious observances and community celebrations, along with competition.
Dragon boat racing has been a traditional Chinese paddled watercraft activity for over 2000 years and began as a modern international sport in Hong Kong in 1976. These boats are typically made of carbon fiber, fiberglass, and other lightweight materials. For competition events, dragon boats are generally rigged with decorative Chinese dragon heads and tails. At other times (such as during training), decorative regalia is usually removed, although the drum often remains aboard for drummers to practice. For races, there are 18-20 people in a standard boat, and 8-10 in a small boat, not including the steersperson (helm) and the drummer.
In December 2007, the central government of the People's Republic of China added the Dragon Boat Festival, along with the Qingming and Mid-Autumn festivals, to the schedule of national holidays.
Contents
1 History
2 Crew
2.1 Drummer
2.2 Paddlers
2.3 Steerer
3 Racing
4 Organizations, recognition and popular culture
5 Accidents and incidents
6 See also
7 References
History[edit]
  World's longest dragon boat (Kambojika Putta Khemara Tarei) on display next to Royal Palace in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Similar to the use of outrigger canoes or Polynesian va'a, dragon boat racing has a rich background of ancient ceremonial, ritualistic and religious traditions, and thus, the modern competitive aspect is but one small part of this complex dragon boat culture. The use of dragon boats for racing and dragons are believed by scholars, sinologists, and anthropologists to have originated in southern central China more than 2500 years ago, in Dongting Lake and along the banks of the Chang Jiang (now called the Yangtze) during the same era when the games of ancient Greece were being established at Olympia.[1] Dragon boat racing has been practiced continuously since this period as the basis for annual water rituals and festival celebrations, and for the traditional veneration of the Chinese dragon water deity.  The celebration was an important part of the ancient Chinese agricultural society, celebrating the summer rice planting. Dragon boat racing was historically situated in the Chinese subcontinent's southern-central "rice bowl"; where there were rice paddies, so there were dragon boats, too.
Of the twelve animals which make up the traditional Chinese zodiac, only the Dragon is a mythical creature. All the rest are non-mythical animals, yet all twelve of the zodiac creatures were well known to members of ancient Chinese agrarian communities.  Dragons were traditionally believed to be the rulers of water on earth: rivers, lakes, and seas; they were also thought to dominate the waters of the heavens: clouds, mists, and rains. There are earth dragons, mountain dragons, and sky or celestial dragons (Tian Long) in Chinese tradition. Mythical dragons and serpents are also found widely in many cultures around the world.
  Tang dynasty painting of a dragon boat race attributed to Li Zhaodao
Traditional dragon boat racing, in China, coincides with the 5th day of the 5th Chinese lunar month (varying from late May to June on the modern Gregorian Calendar). The summer solstice occurs around 21 June and is the reason why Chinese refer to their festival as "Duan Wu" or "Duen Ng". Both the sun and the dragon are considered to be male (the moon and the mythical phoenix, however, are considered to be female). The sun and the dragon are at their most potent during this time of the year, so cause for observing this through ritual celebrations such as dragon boat racing.  It is also the time of year when rice seedlings must be transplanted in their paddy fields to allow for wet rice cultivation. Wu or Ng refers to the sun at its highest position in the sky during the day, the meridian of 'high noon'. Duan or Duen refers to upright or directly overhead. Thus, Duan Wu is an ancient reference to the maximum position of the sun in the northern hemisphere, the longest day of the year or the summer solstice.
Venerating the dragon deity was meant to avert misfortune and calamity and encourage rainfall, which is needed for the fertility of the crops and thus, for the prosperity of an agrarian way of life.  Celestial dragons were considered the controllers of rain, monsoons, winds, and clouds.  The Emperor was "The Dragon" or the "Son of Heaven", and Chinese people sometimes refer to themselves as "dragons" because of its spirit of strength and vitality.  Unlike dragons in European mythology, which are typically considered to be evil and demonic, Asian dragons are regarded as wholesome and benevolent, and thus worthy of veneration, not slaying. If rainfall is insufficient, however, drought and famine can result. Veneration of dragons in China seems to be associated with annually ensuring life-giving water and bountiful rice harvests in south-central China.
Another ritual called Awakening of the Dragon involves a Taoist priest dotting the bulging eyes of the carved dragon head attached to the boat. Doing so symbolizes the dragon ending its slumber and reenergizing its spirit, or ch'i. In modern dragon boat festivals, a representative can be invited to step forward to dot the eyes on a dragon boat head with a brush dipped in red paint.
Not understanding the significance of Duanwu, 19th-century European observers of the racing ritual referred to the associated spectacle as a "dragon boat festival". This is the term that has become known in the West. Dragon boat racing, like Duanwu, is observed and celebrated in many areas of east Asia with a significant population of ethnic Chinese such as Singapore, Malaysia, and the Riau Islands, as well as having been adopted by the Ryukyu Islands since ancient times. The date on which races were held is referred to as the "double fifth", since Duanwu is reckoned as the fifth day of the fifth lunar month, which often falls on the Gregorian calendar month of June and occasionally in May or July. Duanwu is reckoned annually in accordance with the traditional calendar system of China, which is a combination of solar and lunar cycles, unlike the solar-based Gregorian calendar system.
  Bas relief scene from Bayon temple depicting a naval battle using dragon boats between the Khmer Empire and Champa.
The Khmer Empire used dragon boats in their naval battles.  Today, Cambodia honors the use of dragon boats by the Khmer Empire's navy by hosting dragon boat competitions at the Bon Om Touk water festival.[2]  The world's longest dragon boat is located in Cambodia and known as the Kambojika Putta Khemara Tarei. 
Crew[edit]
The crew of a standard dragon boat typically consists of 22 team members: 20 paddlers in pairs facing toward the bow of the boat, 1 drummer or caller at the bow facing toward the paddlers, and 1 steerer standing at the rear of the boat.[3] Dragon boats, however, do vary in length and the crew size changes accordingly, from small dragon boats with only 10 paddlers up to traditional boats which have upwards of 50 paddlers, plus drummer(s) and steerer.
Drummer[edit]
The pulsation of the drum beats produced by the drummer may be considered the "heartbeat" of the dragon boat. The drummer leads the paddlers throughout a race using the rhythmic drum beat to indicate the frequency and synchronization of all the paddlers' strokes (that is, the cadence, picking up or accelerating the pace, slowing the rate, etc.). The drummer may issue commands to the crew through a combination of hand signals and voice calls, and also generally exhorts the crew to perform at their peak. A drummer is typically mandatory during racing events, but if he or she is not present during training, it is typical for the sweep to direct the crew during a race. The drummer's role is both tactical and ceremonial. In official competitions, such as world championships, drummers must physically beat the drum, else the team may be issued a penalty. In other events or practices, the drummer of an experienced team may not hit the drum, as the team can paddle naturally together, sans a drum beat.
Good drummers should be able to synchronize their drumming with the strokes of the leading pair of paddlers, rather than the other way around.
Paddlers[edit]
Pairs of paddlers sit facing forward in the boat, and use a specific type of paddle which, unlike equipment used in rowing, is not rigged to the boat in any way. Because the paddlers face the direction of boat-movement, dragon boaters "paddle," and do not "row."
The paddle now accepted by the International Dragon Boat Organization has a standardized, fixed blade surface area and distinctive shape derived from the paddle shapes characteristic of that used by inhabitants of the Pearl River delta region of Guangdong Province, China adjacent to Hong Kong. The IDBF[4] Paddle Specification 202a (PS202a)[5] has straight flared edges and circular arced shoulders, based geometrically on an equilateral triangle positioned between the blade face and the neck of the shaft.
The first pair of paddlers, called "pacers," "strokes" or "timers," set the pace for the team and are responsible for synchronizing their strokes with one another, because it is critical that all paddlers are synchronized. The direction of the dragon boat while racing is set by the steerer, but for docking and other maneuvers, individual paddlers may be asked to paddle (while others either stop the boat or rest) according to the commands given by the drummer or steerer.
There are generally three different strokes used by paddlers: a (normal) forward stroke, a backstroke, and a draw stroke.
Steerer[edit]
The direction of a dragon boat's movement is controlled by the steerer standing in the back of the boat. Many terms exist for the person steering the boat, such as steerer, steersperson, sweep, and helm.
The steerer manipulates a long (typically 9-feet) straight oar, called a steering oar. The steering oar is situated in the upside-down U-shaped oar lock. The oar lock is housed on top of the steering arm, which sticks out perpendicularly on the back-left of a dragon boat.
The oar is used to both steer the boat as it is moving and adjust the positioning of the boat. To steer, a steerer will put the blade of the oar into the water and either push the handle away from him/her, or pull it toward him/her. Doing so will turn the boat right or left, respectively.
A steerer can also use the steering oar to adjust the position of the boat by cranking. When a steerer cranks the steering oar, the stern of the boat moves either to the left or right, spinning the boat. This is typically executed to turn the boat around at practice or to ensure a boat is lined up straight and pointing directly down a racecourse.
A steerer uses calls to direct the paddlers. The steerer may call "paddles up" to prepare to paddle and "take it away!" to commence paddling. The steerer may use other calls such as "hold the boat" for the paddlers to brake using their paddles or "let it ride" for them to lift their paddles out of the water.
Racing[edit]
  Dragon boats racing in Hong Kong
  HKDBA team being awarded the Guinness World Record in Hong Kong
Modern dragon boat racing is organized at the international level by the International Dragon Boat Federation (IDBF), the world governing body for the sport. The IDBF is a member of the Global Association of International Sports Federations (Sportaccord) and is a founding federation of the AIMS Group (Alliance of Independent Recognized Members of Sport) within Sportaccord. AIMS is an IOC-Recognized Multi Sports Organization. The International Canoe Federation (ICF) also has a dragon boat program for those of its Member Canoe Federations with an interest in dragon boat.[6]  Both Sport and Festival racing are very competitive and many paddlers train year round, using paddling machines or pools in addition to on-water sessions.[7]
A festival race is typically a sprint event of several hundred meters, with 500 meters being the most common. Races measuring 200, 1000, and 2000 meters are also standard distances in international competition.  Races measuring 2000 meters are normally held on a 500-meter course, requiring teams to do two loops. Teams start and end at the same end of the course, and complete three 180-degree turns. Other distances may also be used in local festivals, such as 100 or 250 meters, or another distance, depending on the size of the body of water.
Organizations, recognition and popular culture[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The established International Federation for dragon boat sport is the International Dragon Boat Federation (IDBF). In 2007, the IDBF was recognized as a member of SportAccord (the former General Association of International Sports Federations, GAISF) which is part of the Olympic Movement, after SportAccord considered the historical and cultural backgrounds and identities of dragon boat sports.
IDBF member associations or federations have been established in 89 countries or territories since 1991. The IDBF is not presently an Olympic International Federation of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), but the IOC is currently considering the IDBF application for Olympic Federation status.
Accidents and incidents[edit]
On 17 January 2010, a dragon boat training was capsized in Penang, Malaysia killed 6 paddlers on board.
On 11 February 2011, another dragon boat training was capsized due to wind in Præstø, Denmark killed one paddler on board.
See also[edit]
Nouka Baich
vteSports of the World Games programArtistic and dance sports
Dancesport
Gymnastics
Acrobatic gymnastics
Aerobic gymnastics
Rhythmic gymnastics
Trampolining
Ball sports
Beach handball
Canoe polo
Fistball
Floorball
Korfball
Lacrosse
Racquetball
Softball
Squash
Martial arts
Mixed martial arts
Jujutsu
Karate
Boxing
Brazilian jiu-jitsu
Kickboxing
Muaythai
Sumo
Precision sports
Billiards
Boules
Bowling
Field archery
Strength sports
Powerlifting
Tug of war
Trend sports
Air sports
Finswimming
Flying disc
Lifesaving
Orienteering
Roller sports
Roller in-line hockey
Sport climbing
Water skiing
Wakeboarding
Past sports
Artistic roller skating
Bodybuilding
Casting
Indoor field hockey
Netball
Parachuting
Paragliding
Roller hockey
Rugby sevens
Surfing
Tchoukball
Tumbling
Wakeboarding
Demo sports
Canoe marathon
Duathlon
Speed roller skating
Matkot
Padel
Wushu
 Sports at the World Games
International World Games Association
vteCanoeing and kayakingMain disciplines
Canoe sprint
Canoe slalom
Canoe marathon
Canoe polo
Wildwater canoeing
Canoe sailing
Canoe freestyle
Paracanoe
Olympics
Summer Olympics
Male medalists
Female medalists
Venues
Other disciplines
Creeking
Dragon boating
Extreme racing
Nouka Baich
Surf skiing
Surf kayaking
Snow boating
Squirt boating
Standup paddleboarding
ICF championships
Sprint (Men's Canadian medalists
Women's Canadian medalists
Men's kayak medalists
Women's kayak medalists
Paracanoe medalists)
Slalom (Men's canoe medalists
Women's canoe medalists
Men's kayak medalists
Women's kayak medalists
Mixed canoe medalists)
Slalom Junior &amp; U23
Marathon
Ocean Racing
Wildwater canoeing
Recreation
Small-craft sailing
Whitewater canoeing / kayaking
Sea kayaking
Canoe camping
Kayak fishing
Canoe and kayak diving
Dongola racing
Canoe orienteering
Canoe livery
Modern boats
Canoe
Kayak
Concrete canoe
Flyak
Folding kayak
International Canoe
Malia
Recreational kayak
Sprint canoe
Traditional boats
Aleutian kayak
Cayuco
Chundan vallam
Dugout
Fur brigade
Outrigger canoe
Pacific Northwest
Rabaska
Sturgeon-nosed canoe
Taimen
Umiak
Waka
War canoe
Swan boat
Techniques
Canoe paddle strokes
Eskimo Rescue
Kayak roll
Portage
Equipment
Albano buoy system
Outrigger
Paddle
Paddle float
Paddle leash
Royalex
Sea sock
Spray deck
Tuilik
Kayakers
Doug Ammons
Jimmy Blakeney
Tyler Bradt
Paul Caffyn
Tad Dennis
Chris Duff
Nigel Foster
Maria Francis
Douglas C. Gordon
Štěpánka Hilgertová
Freya Hoffmeister
Eric Jackson
Ramo Kolenović
Brad Ludden
Andrew McAuley
Mark Pollock
Oskar Speck
Rush Sturges
Clay Wright
Alexander Yermilov
Venues
Artificial whitewater
Canoeing and kayaking venues
Competitions
List of world records in canoeing
Adirondack Canoe Classic
Au Sable River Canoe Marathon
Devizes to Westminster International Canoe Marathon
Dusi Canoe Marathon
Hawkesbury Canoe Classic
YMCA Massive Murray Paddle
National Student Rodeo
Thameside Series
Waterside Series
Riverland Paddling Marathon
Festivals
Canadian International Dragon Boat Festival
Duanwu Festival
Hong Kong Dragon Boat Festival in New York
Houston Dragon Boat Festival
Lethbridge Dragon Boat Festival
Ottawa Dragon Boat Festival
Toronto International Dragon Boat Race Festival
Governing bodies
European Canoe Association
American Canoe Association
Paddle Australia
British Canoeing
British Dragon Boat Racing Association
Canoe Kayak Canada
Canoe Wales
Croatian Canoe Federation
Israel Canoe Association
Scottish Canoe Association
Portuguese Canoe Federation
Other organisations
Association of International Paddle Sport Federations
Canadian Canoe Museum
International Dragon Boat Federation
Sir Alexander Mackenzie Canada Sea-to-Sea Bicentennial Expeditions
UK Rivers Access Campaign
Media
La Chasse-galerie
Paddle-to-the-Sea (film)
The Rise and Fall of the Great Lakes
Waterwalker
 Outline
References[edit]
^ Worcester, George. The Junks and Sampans of the Yangtze River, 1971.
^ ROBINSON, BELINDA. "Tens of thousands of Cambodians cheer for centuries-old boat races." China Daily, 12 Nov. 2019, www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/201911/12/WS5dca1702a310cf3e35576cd7.html. Accessed 11 Aug. 2020. 
^ "Dragon boat racing calls to beginners and pros alike". Los Angeles Times. 2019-05-10. Retrieved 2019-07-22..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ "IDBF Library". International Dragon Boat Federation. Archived from the original on 2016-03-01. Retrieved 2016-02-11.
^ "IDBF Racing Paddle Scheme" (PDF). International Dragon Boat Federation. Retrieved 2016-02-11.[permanent dead link]
^ "Dragon Boat".
^ "Oswego Dragon Boat Festival". Oswegodragon.com. 2011-12-30. Archived from the original on 2013-06-27. Retrieved 2013-03-06.
vteWater sports and activitiesActivities in water
Aquajogging
Diving
Scuba diving
Snorkeling
Swimming
synchronized
Water aerobics
Activities on water
Barefoot skiing
Boating
Bodyboarding
Bodysurfing
Cable skiing
Canoeing
Fishing
Kayaking
Kiteboarding
Kiteboating
Kneeboarding
Paddleboarding
standup
Parasailing
Rafting
Riverboarding
Rowing
Sailing
Skimboarding
Skurfing
Surfing
Tubing
Wakeboarding
Wakeskating
Wakesurfing
Water skiing
Windsurfing
Yachting
Team sports
Canoe polo
Dinghy racing
Dragon boat racing
Outrigger canoe racing
Synchronized diving
Waboba
Water basketball
Water polo
Water volleyball
Competitions
Boat racing
Modern pentathlon
Sailing races
Triathlon
Yacht racing
 Category
 Commons
Authority control 
GND: 7515516-3
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dragon_boat&amp;oldid=976239283"
		Categories: Dragon boat racingRowing boatsChinese inventionsTraditional boatsCanoesVietnamese traditionsHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles needing additional references from January 2020All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Chinese-language textArticles needing additional references from October 2012Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةবাংলাBân-lâm-gúབོད་ཡིགCatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתMagyarBahasa MelayuMìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄Nederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSlovenčinaSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаVahcuengh粵語中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 1 September 2020, at 22:46 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
