	Loyola University Maryland
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		  (Redirected from Loyola College in Maryland)
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For other places with the same name, see Loyola University.
Loyola University MarylandLatin: Universitas Loyolaae MarylandiaFormer namesLoyola College in Maryland (1852–2009)MottoStrong Truths Well LivedTypePrivate Coeducational Nonprofit Research Higher education institutionEstablished1852; 168 years ago (1852)[1]Religious affiliationCatholic Church (Jesuit)Academic affiliationAJCU ACCUNAICU CICEndowment$228.2 million (2018)[2]PresidentBrian F. LinnaneAcademic staff591[3]Students6,050 (Fall 2015)[3]Undergraduates4,068 (Fall 2015)[3]Postgraduates1,982 (Fall 2015)[3]LocationBaltimore, Maryland, U.S.39°20′46″N 76°37′08″W﻿ / ﻿39.34611°N 76.61889°W﻿ / 39.34611; -76.61889Coordinates: 39°20′46″N 76°37′08″W﻿ / ﻿39.34611°N 76.61889°W﻿ / 39.34611; -76.61889CampusSuburban - 99 acres (40.1 ha)Colors.mw-parser-output .legend{page-break-inside:avoid;break-inside:avoid-column}.mw-parser-output .legend-color{display:inline-block;min-width:1.25em;height:1.25em;line-height:1.25;margin:1px 0;text-align:center;border:1px solid black;background-color:transparent;color:black}.mw-parser-output .legend-text{} Green  and  Gray [4]NicknameGreyhoundsSporting affiliationsNCAA Division I – Patriot LeagueMascotGreyhoundWebsitewww.loyola.edu
Loyola University Maryland is a private Jesuit liberal arts university in Baltimore, Maryland. Established as Loyola College in Maryland by John Early and eight other members of the Society of Jesus in 1852, it is one of 27 member institutions of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities,[1] the ninth-oldest Jesuit college in the United States, and the first college in the United States to bear the name of St. Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus.[5]
Loyola's main campus is in Baltimore and features Collegiate Gothic architecture, as well as a pedestrian bridge across Charles Street.  Academically, the university is divided into three schools: the Loyola College of Arts and Sciences, the Loyola School of Education, and the Sellinger School of Business and Management. It operates a Clinical Center at Belvedere Square in Baltimore and has graduate centers in Timonium and Columbia, Maryland.
The student body is composed of approximately 4,000 undergraduate and 1,900 graduate students, representing 39 states and 44 countries, and 84% of undergraduates reside on campus. The average class size is 20, with a student-to-faculty ratio of 12:1. Approximately 73% of the student body receives some form of financial aid. Campus groups include the Association of Latin American &amp; Spanish students (ALAS) and the college newspaper, The Greyhound. There is also the student-run, online-only publication, The Rival. This publication features opinion, commentary and satire in its three section: campus, culture, and current.
Notable alumni include Tom Clancy, author of The Hunt for Red October, and Mark Bowden, author of Black Hawk Down. Loyola's sports teams are nicknamed the Greyhounds and are best known for the perennially ranked men's and women's lacrosse teams. The men's lacrosse team's biggest rival is nearby Johns Hopkins University. The annual lacrosse games played between these two institutions is known as the "Battle of Charles Street".[6] The school colors are green and grey.[7]
Contents
1 History
1.1 Founding
1.2 Expansion
1.3 Designation change
1.4 Jesuit tradition
1.5 Endowment
2 Academics
2.1 Loyola College
2.2 Sellinger School of Business and Management
2.3 School of Education
2.4 Admission
3 Campus
3.1 Sustainability
4 Student life
4.1 Traditions
4.2 Activism
5 Center for Community Service and Justice
6 Athletics
7 Notable faculty
8 Alumni
9 See also
10 References
11 External links
History[edit]
Main article: List of Presidents of Loyola University Maryland
Founding[edit]
  John Early, founder of Loyola.
Loyola College in Maryland was founded in 1852 by John Early and eight other members of the Society of Jesus ("Jesuits"), and was the first college in the United States to bear the name of St. Ignatius of Loyola. Loyola College in Maryland is the ninth-oldest among the nation's 27 Jesuit colleges and universities.
  Chemistry lab
  Student library
The college's first campus was in two large townhouses on Holliday Street between East Lexington Street (then called Orange Alley) and East Fayette Street, in downtown Baltimore. After only three years, in 1855, Loyola relocated to a newly built structure on North Calvert Street, between East Monument Street and East Madison Street, adjacent to and just south of newly established St. Ignatius Church in the city's historic Mount Vernon-Belvedere neighborhood, and moved to its present "Evergreen" campus in north Baltimore on North Charles Street during 1922. Evening classes commenced in 1942.
Expansion[edit]
During the early 1930s, the high school section moved to nearby Towson, north of Baltimore. In 1949, the college established a graduate division in education, adding a graduate degree program in business management in 1968, a graduate program in speech pathology in 1971, and finance in 1973. Today, the college's list of graduate programs has grown to include psychology, modern studies, pastoral counseling, computer science, and software engineering.
Loyola became coeducational in 1971, following its joining with Mount Saint Agnes College, a neighboring women's college that was experiencing financial difficulties and closed following the joining. That same year, the college's Board of Trustees elected its first lay chairperson.[8]
Working from these foundations, Loyola has transformed itself from a small, commuter college into a residential college with an undergraduate population of more than 4,000 students. In 1981, Loyola established a separate business school: The Rev. Joseph A. Sellinger, Jr., School of Business and Management. The school would expand geographically with two graduate centers in Timonium and Columbia, Maryland.
Designation change[edit]
The Executive Committee of the college's Board of Trustees announced on August 20, 2008 its decision to change the institution's name to Loyola University Maryland.[9] Its request was approved on March 25, 2009 by the Maryland Higher Education Commission, with the change officially taking effect five months later on August 19.[10] The Reverend Brian F. Linnane, the university's president, stated that the "college" designation no longer fit the school and that its comprehensive array of academic fields, some with graduate programs, was better reflected in its new name. Some alumni were disappointed because they felt the change made the institution less distinct from Loyola University Chicago, Loyola University New Orleans and Loyola Marymount University.[11]
Jesuit tradition[edit]
  Ignatius of Loyola 
Loyola University Maryland was founded by the Society of Jesus in the tradition of Ignatius of Loyola.[12] The Society of Jesus, and therefore Loyola University Maryland, operate according to the mandate Ad maiorem Dei gloriam (AMDG), directing their ends toward that which brings forth the "greater glory of God". This cornerstone of the Jesuit philosophy functions to remind students that their education is meant to be applied toward the betterment of humanity and the worship of God, in particular. Loyola's focus on cura personalis, or the education of the whole person, functions to attain that end. A broad base of knowledge, supported by a strong liberal arts core, prepares Jesuit students to undertake the goal of AMDG.
In keeping with this overarching principle, Loyola undergraduates must complete the core curriculum which includes courses in English, philosophy, theology, ethics, history, fine arts, foreign language, mathematics, natural science, and social sciences.[12] Though Loyola encourages plurality, its religious heritage is preserved and cultured by encouraging all of its students and faculty to cultivate and live by the core values of the Society of Jesus.
In 1950, Loyola was awarded the Sidney Hollander Award for its contribution to the establishment of civil and political rights for African Americans in Maryland.[13]
Endowment[edit]
The primary financial objective of Loyola's endowment is to provide funds for the current and future support of the operations of the University and for its programs. The endowment consists of approximately 300 individual funds established for a variety of purposes, including both donor-restricted endowment funds and funds designated by the Board of Trustees to function as endowments. As of May 31, 2018, the total assets of the endowment were $228.2 million.
Loyola's endowment has been strengthened by comprehensive capital campaigns. The recent Bright Minds, Bold Hearts campaign exceeded $100 million. The campaign, which concluded in May 2018, added over $54 million to the University's endowment, created 115 new scholarships, increased the funding of 55 existing scholarships, enhanced athletic facilities, and strengthened Loyola's academic experience, including programs in peace and justice studies, global studies, and Messina, an interdisciplinary living-learning experience for first-year students The campaign also supported the mission and ministry of the University through investment in the local community and Loyola's York Road Initiative.[14]
Academics[edit]
University rankings
National
Forbes[15]
175
THE/WSJ[16]
229
Regional
U.S. News &amp; World Report[17]
4
Master's University class
Washington Monthly[18]
21
The foundation of a Loyola education is a broad core program that covers basic knowledge and concepts in the humanities, math and science, and the social sciences. The purpose is to balance general education and specialized study in the major. Undergraduate degrees are awarded in three schools, Loyola College, the School of Education, and the Joseph A. Sellinger, S.J. School of Business and Management. The university operates on a semester system.[19]
Loyola College[edit]
Coinciding with the university's transition to its new name, the College of Arts and Sciences became Loyola College on August 19, 2009.[10] It offers degrees in biology, chemistry, classics, communication, comparative cultures and literary studies, computer science, economics, education, engineering science, English, fine arts, French, German, global studies, history, an honors program, interdisciplinary studies (including American, Asian, Catholic, film, gender, Latin American/Latino and medieval studies), law, mathematical science, military career, modern languages and literatures, nursing, philosophy, physics, political science, pre-health curriculum/programs (including medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, and optometry/podiatry), psychology, sociology, Spanish, speech-language pathology/audiology, theology, and writing.[20]
Sellinger School of Business and Management[edit]
Main article: Sellinger School of Business and Management
  The Sellinger School.
The Sellinger School of Business and Management offers degrees in accounting, business economics, finance, general business, international business, management, management information systems, marketing, and the Sellinger scholars program. In 1984 the business school was formally named the Joseph A. Sellinger, S.J. School of Business and Management in honor of the late Reverend Joseph A. Sellinger, earning accreditation in all programs by AACSB (The International Association for Management Education) in 1988. Loyola is the only private institution in the state of Maryland with a nationally accredited business school.  In 1990, the accounting department earned specialized national accreditation from AACSB.[21]
School of Education[edit]
Since 1946 the department of education has been one of the stronger academic pillars at Loyola. With the 2009 name designation change, President Linnane announced the opening of The School of Education which was to be led by Peter C. Murrell, Jr. as the first dean. The School was officially opened on October 14, 2009.[22] The School now offers undergraduate majors in Elementary Education and minors in Secondary Education and Special Education. Its graduate department offers Master of Arts (M.A.), Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT), Master of Education (M.Ed.), the Certificate of Advanced Study in School Management (C.S.M.), and the Certificate of Advanced Study in Education (CASE).[23]
Admission[edit]
More than 10,000 students apply for admission as freshmen for approximately 1,000 spaces.[24] The class of 2013 was the last applicant class that was required to submit SAT scores. The admission office has now begun a four-year pilot program that does not require standardized test scores, deeming them optional.[25]
Campus[edit]
  Humanities Center
Loyola's Evergreen campus spans 79 acres (320,000 m2) along Charles Street in northern Baltimore. In addition, Loyola has two satellite campuses in Timonium and Columbia for graduate classes. The college also owns 20 acres (81,000 m2) in the mountains of western Maryland, used for the Rising Phoenix Retreat Center. The Loyola Clinical Centers are located just a short drive from the college's main campus, in Belvedere Square. The Clinical Centers offer individuals in the community a broad range of services addressing educational, language, and psychological issues.
At the western side of the Quad on the Evergreen campus lies the Alumni Memorial Chapel of Our Lady. Formally dedicated on September 15, 1952, the chapel features Gothic architectural influences with large stained-glass windows and a long, narrow nave situated along the east-west axis. A statue of Our Lady of Evergreen, Queen of Peace, is situated above the front façade.
On the eastern side of the Quad, and in the center of campus, is the Tudor-style Humanities Center, originally built by the Garrett family in 1895 as a wedding gift for one of their children. Unfortunately, the child died during a trip to England, and the residence became a rehabilitation center for men blinded during the war. In 1921, Loyola's Jesuits purchased the Evergreen property from the Garretts and gradually moved the college from its location on Calvert Street. The mansion was originally used for classes, but then became the Jesuit residence. In 1955, it suffered severe fire damage and was converted to offices following the restoration. Today, the Humanities Center houses 16 departments, including Admissions, Alumni Relations, Financial Aid and the Philosophy, Theology, and History departments.
In the northern side of the Quad lies the Sellinger School of Business and Management, which opened in January 2000. The 50,000-square-foot (4,600 m2) facility features a more contemporary style, with Spanish influences, including a soaring, five-story glass façade, open atrium, a four-story glass tower, and three seminar rooms.
On the southern side of the Quad lies Beatty Hall and Jenkins Hall. These buildings, used to house classrooms and various departments, are heavily influenced by Gothic and Edwardian architectural styles.
On the south west side of the Quad is the Donnelly Science Center. The Donnelly Science Center was originally designed by J. Prentiss Browne, a prominent Baltimore architect, and built in 1978. The academic building received an expansion in 2011 that included new laboratories.
The dormitories housing students are located west of the main campus, and are connected by Loyola's pedestrian bridge (or USF&amp;G Pedestrian Bridge), spanning Charles Street. Loyola's dormitories, in most cases purchased apartment buildings, include Newman Towers, Campion Tower, and Seton Court. Further up North Charles Street is the Fitness and Aquatic Center, which opened in fall 2000, featuring a 6,000-square-foot (560 m2) fitness center with treadmills, bikes, ellipticals, stair climbers, free weights, selectorized weight circuit and stretching area. The Mangione Aquatic Center features an eight-lane, 25-yard (23 m) swim course; a shallow lane and diving well; as well as an on-deck sauna and hot tub. The 30-foot (9.1 m) indoor rock climbing wall and bouldering area is designed for all levels.
The FAC also has a two-court gymnasium used for club sports, intramural sports, and informal recreation. The Multi-Activity Court features a sport court surface ideal for indoor soccer, volleyball, and inline sports. The FAC also features an elevated walking/jogging track, two group exercise studios, an Outdoor Adventure Center, classroom and conference room, an equipment room, locker rooms, four racquetball and two squash courts, and an outdoor grass field.
Loyola shares with the Notre Dame of Maryland University (formerly College of Notre Dame of Maryland) the Loyola Notre Dame Library, located between the two schools, and features a 100,000-square-foot (9,300 m2) interior; interactive study and instructional spaces; an exhibition area and curatorial space for special collections; expanded stack areas for humanities print collection; a café fully wired for voice, data, and video; five high-tech seminar rooms; digital studio for collaborative student and faculty projects; a media center with 96-seat auditorium; and a 24-seat, fully wired bibliographic classroom.[26]
Sustainability[edit]
The University employs a full-time sustainability coordinator who serves and advises the sustainability committee to advance environmental sustainability on campus. Two roof-top solar panels were installed during the summer of 2008, and a green residence hall features recycled metal beams, a green roof, and geothermal heating and cooling. The student Environmental Action Club works to promote environmental stewardship and sustainability on campus. Loyola also partners with a hybrid-only taxi service to provide additional transportation resources.
Student life[edit]
Loyola's undergraduate body is composed of 3,580 students as of 2008. The racial diversity of the undergraduate student body was 85.0% white, 2.7% Asian, 5.1% black, and 3.4% Hispanic. Ninety-eight percent of freshmen and 81% of all undergraduate students live in college housing.[27]
Loyola has more than 150 clubs and organizations, catering to a range of interests. The college operates a television station, WLOY TV; and a radio station, WLOY on 1620 kHz AM. The Greyhound is Loyola's student-run newspaper. Loyola is also host to an annual Relay for Life event, raising $150,000 in 2007. ALANA (African, Latino, Asian and Native American) Student Services provides an array of activities to foster the academic, cultural, personal, spiritual, and leadership development of ALANA students, as well as create and maintain an environment of respect and awareness.[28]
Loyola's ROTC is an elective course taken along with a student's required college courses. Students take one class and one lab each week, plus physical fitness training three times per week. Courses cover everything from the structure of the Army to military operations and tactics. Upon completion of the program, cadets are commissioned as officers in the U.S. Army and must complete a period of service in either the Active Duty, Army Reserve or Army National Guard. Since its inception in 1952, the ROTC program has commissioned more than 1,100 cadets. Loyola's Army ROTC program has a partnership with Towson University, Notre Dame of Maryland University, and Goucher College.
Sixty-five percent of Loyola's undergraduate students studied abroad during their junior year.[29] Students can choose from 21 different programs, exchanges, and affiliations in 16 countries.
Loyola-sponsored programs include Alcala, Spain; Auckland, New Zealand; Bangkok, Thailand; Beijing, China; Cork, Ireland; Leuven, Belgium; Copenhagen, Denmark; Melbourne, Australia; Newcastle, England; Paris, France; and Rome, Italy.
Programs are available for all majors, and students have the option of going for one semester or the entire year. Some programs are taught in English, some in the native language, and some a combination of both.
Eighty-one percent of Loyola students study abroad, placing it 10th on U.S. News &amp; World Report's "Most students studying abroad" listing.[29][30]
Traditions[edit]
Loyolapalooza: Every spring, the SGA hosts a festival on the Quad, which includes carnival-like rides, food, and a musical act. Past years have included The Samples,[31] Guster,[32] Straylight Run &amp; Chris Carrabba,[33] Gavin DeGraw,[34] State Radio,[35] and Citizen Cope.[36]
Bull &amp; Oyster Roast: An annual alumni event that serves all classes as an on-campus reunion for any and all Loyola alumni. The event usually takes place in the early weeks of the spring semester and features food, live music, and dancing.
Battle of Charles Street: The annual men's lacrosse match-up against fellow Baltimore rival, the Johns Hopkins University Blue Jays.
Midnight Breakfast: This is a weekend tradition where from midnight until 2 a.m. breakfast is served on campus, free of charge for all students. This gives students a chance to meet in the Boulder Garden Cafe for a late night activity.
Milestone Reunion: Alumni and their families return to campus for their Milestone Reunion every five years since their graduation to reconnect, remember, and relive their days on Evergreen. Reunion takes place the first weekend in June each year. Alumni celebrating their 50-year reunion are invited to a special ceremony and a dinner-dance to induct them as Golden Greyhounds.
Chordbusters: A twice-a-year concert where the male and female a cappella groups perform a set of songs. The concert happens at the end of each semester every year and features a comedic skit from each group, as well as their arranged songs. The male group is called The Chimes and the female group is called The Belles.[37]
Black Student Association (BSA) Fashion Show: A one-night-only, student-led fashion show. The show aims to promote and celebrate diversity, where it is centered one a theme to focus on people of color.[38]
Activism[edit]
Students at Loyola are very involved with advocacy and fundraising at a small and large level. The largest annually held event is called Relay For Life which is a nationwide fundraising program for cancer research. As a university, Loyola has donated the most money in both 2006 and 2007.[39]
Center for Community Service and Justice[edit]
Center for Community Service and JusticeAbbreviationCCSJPredecessorCenter for Values and ServiceEstablished1992; 28 years ago (1992)Location4501 North Charles St.Baltimore, MarylandDirectorErin O'KeefeImmersionDirector, Christina HarrisonMain organCCSJ Booklet[40]AffiliationsLoyola University MarylandSociety of Jesus, CatholicWebsiteCCSJ
More than half of the student population has participated in some community service activity during their time at Loyola. The Center for Community Service and Justice advances this Jesuit university's objective of educating for the faith by offering a program of events and service experiences that supplement the classroom experience, engaging students by developing service opportunities in a wide variety of areas. The center offers nearly 40 ongoing community service programs, more than 15 one-time service opportunities throughout the year, and several immersion programs. Students also have an opportunity to become involved through service learning, which pairs community service with academic coursework. In 2015 Loyola was rated by US News as among the top 25 colleges and universities in the country for service learning.[41]
The Center for Community Service and Justice is involved in a number of activities. Some examples include the Beans and Bread Center, which hosts 300 of Baltimore's poor for a meal each day. Loyola provides food and help for this once a month. The Our Daily Bread Employment Center offers a meal, literacy training and general education, help in finding a job, and substance abuse recovery assistance. Volunteers from Loyola help with the meal program on scheduled Saturdays. The Immigration Awareness &amp; Advocacy Events includes scheduled discussions and advocacy on issues such as the rights of migrant farm workers, sex trafficking, and the situation of undocumented workers. The York Road Community Days involves students in improving the inner city landscape,[42] while building community with local churches and schools. Youth Education Awareness consists of service and advocacy opportunities, speakers, and panel discussions on the root causes of systemic problems affecting the schools and youth in Baltimore.[43]
During Spring Break, some activities that occur include Spring Break Outreach, Encounter El Salvador, a program in which students live with a rural family in El Salvador for a week, and Experience: Baltimore, which occurs in late August and involves introducing students to the various neighborhoods and to the socioeconomic issues facing Baltimore, through various activities including service and conversations with the people.[44]
Athletics[edit]
Main article: Loyola Greyhounds
  The Ridley Athletic Complex Loyola fields 17 varsity teams and 22 club teams.[45] The varsity teams participate in the NCAA's Division I. All became members of the Patriot League on July 1, 2013. Previously all but two competed in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference (MAAC) from 1989 to 2013.  The exceptions were the lacrosse teams – the men in the ECAC Lacrosse League and the women in the Big East Conference. The transition to a new conference was announced on August 29, 2012.[46] Loyola has a student success rate for graduation of over 97% of its student athletes.[47]
The school's mascot is a Greyhound, and field sports are played at the Ridley Athletic Complex, located a few minutes from the Evergreen Campus on Cold Spring Lane.  Loyola's men's and women's lacrosse teams are particularly noteworthy as both have appeared in numerous NCAA tournaments, and are highly ranked most years. The men's lacrosse team won the NCAA Division I National Championship in 2012.   Reitz Arena The men's soccer team has also enjoyed a great deal of success over time, winning the NCAA Division II National Championship in 1976, appearing various times in the NCAA Division I Tournament, and garnering several national rankings since its ascension into Division I in 1982.[48]
Philip Scholz, a Paralympian, is an alumnus of the varsity men's swimming team. Scholz is blind and holds various records for Paralympic swimming.[49]  Joe Wise, a paralympian, is a former student (2011-2015) and member of the Loyola University Men's Swim Team. Wise is a resident of Austin, Texas. Wise swam in the 2008 Beijing Paralympics and the 2012 London Paralympic Games. He holds several records for swimming in the United States. Katie Hoff, an Olympic medal winner, coached swimming at Loyola and attended classes at the school before leaving Baltimore to live in Fullerton, California.[50][51] Brennan Morris, a member of the US National Team, is also a record-setting member of the swim team.[52]
Notable faculty[edit]
Kelly DeVries, Professor of History, is a well known expert in medieval studies and weaponry and has appeared on numerous occasions for commentary on The History Channel.[53]
Thomas DiLorenzo, Professor of Economics, is a Confederate apologist[54] and an ardent critic of the prior Governor of Maryland Martin O'Malley.[55]
Diana Schaub is professor of political science at Loyola College in Maryland. Schaub received her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. She teaches and writes on a wide range of issues in political philosophy and American political thought.
Robert J. Wicks, Professor of Pastoral Counseling; leading writer about the intersection of spirituality and psychology; recipient of Papal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice medal.
Alumni[edit]
Main article: List of Loyola University Maryland people
Loyola has approximately 70,000 living alumni worldwide. Notable Loyola alumni include: Mark Bowden, 1999 National Book Award finalist for Black Hawk Down; Tom Clancy, best selling author of the Jack Ryan series of novels; Michael D. Griffin, former Administrator (highest-ranked official) of NASA; Harry Markopolos, financial investigator who sounded the alarm about the Bernie Madoff ponzi scheme; Jim McKay, former twelve time Emmy-Award-winning  host of ABC's Wide World of Sports; Jerry Parr, former Special Agent in Charge Head of the White House Detail for the US Secret Service; and Herbert O'Conor, 51st Governor of Maryland.
Michael D. Griffin  Administrator of NASA
Herbert O'Conor,  51st Governor of Maryland
See also[edit]
.mw-parser-output .portal{border:solid #aaa 1px;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tleft{margin:0.5em 1em 0.5em 0}.mw-parser-output .portal.tright{margin:0.5em 0 0.5em 1em}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul{display:table;box-sizing:border-box;padding:0.1em;max-width:175px;background:#f9f9f9;font-size:85%;line-height:110%;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li{display:table-row}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:first-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em;vertical-align:middle;text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .portal>ul>li>span:last-child{display:table-cell;padding:0.2em 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em;vertical-align:middle}
Catholicism portal
National Catholic Educational Association
References[edit]
^ a b Steiner, Bernard Christian (2004). [https:// books.google.com/books?id=Lg6iMV2xi8YC&amp;dq=  the+history+of+university+education+in+ maryland&amp;source=    gbs_summary_s&amp;ca   d=0 The History of University Education in Maryland] Check |url= value (help). Whitefish, MT: Kessinger Publishing. ISBN 9781419166457..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ As of May 31, 2018. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 15, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017.
^ a b c d "Common Data Set 2015-2016". Loyola University Maryland.
^  "Page Not Found - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Cite uses generic title (help)
^ "Loyola College in Maryland: This Jesuit Institution has a strong Liberal Arts Tradition". The Morning Call. Retrieved October 21, 2008.[dead link]
^ Preston, Mike (May 3, 2006). "Loyola on Bubble as Hopkins Pops In". Baltimore Sun. Retrieved October 21, 2008.
^ "Loyola Men's Basketball 2011–12 Information Guide – Loyola University Maryland Athletics" (PDF).
^ "University Profile - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ ""Loyola to adopt 'university' designation," Loyola College in Maryland, Wednesday, August 20, 2008". Loyola.edu. August 15, 2009. Archived from the original on June 6, 2010. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ a b "Designation change to be observed after start of fall semester". loyola.edu. Loyola College in Maryland. Retrieved September 17, 2008.
^ "Walker, Childs. "Md.'s Loyola to become a university," ''The Baltimore Sun'', Thursday, September 24, 2009". Baltimoresun.com. September 24, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.[permanent dead link]
^ a b "Loyola College in Maryland \\ About Loyola". Loyola.edu. Archived from the original on September 8, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Sidney Hollander Collection 1926-1972, MS. 2044  | Maryland Historical Society". www.mdhs.org. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ "Advancement - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved January 29, 2019.
^ "America's Top Colleges 2019". Forbes. Retrieved August 15, 2019.
^ "U.S. College Rankings 2020". Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved September 26, 2019.
^ "Best Colleges 2021: Regional Universities Rankings". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Retrieved September 24, 2020.
^ "2020 Rankings -- Masters Universities". Washington Monthly. Retrieved August 31, 2020.
^ Loyola University Maryland – U.S. News &amp; World Report.
^ "College of Arts and Sciences - Liberal Arts Studies - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ "Sellinger History". Loyola.edu. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Loyola to start school of education". baltimoresun.com. October 14, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.[permanent dead link]
^ "Graduate Admission - Academics &amp; Programs - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ "Loyola College in Maryland - Best Colleges - Education - US News and World Report". Colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. August 19, 2009. Archived from the original on March 8, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Loyola - Undergraduate Studies". Admissions.loyola.edu. Archived from the original on June 7, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ Tour. Accessed June 4, 2016.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on July 24, 2011. Retrieved October 13, 2008.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)
^ "Clubs and Organizations - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ a b "Best Colleges - Education - US News and World Report". Colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. August 19, 2009. Archived from the original on March 15, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Academics - All Schools &amp; Programs - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. March 19, 2002. Archived from the original on January 7, 2016. Retrieved March 8, 2010.
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. January 30, 2007. Archived from the original on February 10, 2016. Retrieved March 8, 2010.
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. April 26, 2005. Archived from the original on September 9, 2006. Retrieved March 8, 2010.
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. April 27, 2004. Archived from the original on February 10, 2016. Retrieved March 8, 2010.
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. April 29, 2008. Retrieved March 8, 2010.[permanent dead link]
^ "The Greyhound". Loyolagreyhound.com. April 28, 2009. Archived from the original on January 14, 2010. Retrieved March 8, 2010.
^ "Student Activities - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ Garrity, Isabelle; ’20; Major, Communication; Zuhowski, Emily; ’20; Major, Communication. "BSA Fashion Show". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved June 25, 2019.CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
^ "Loyola College in Maryland - News". Loyola.edu. February 25, 2008. Archived from the original on June 13, 2010. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Brochure, Center for Community Service and Justice". Margaret Zivkovich.
^ "US News 2015. Accessed 26 May 2016".
^ "York Road Partnership". York Road Partnership.
^ "Page Not Found - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Cite uses generic title (help)
^ "Experience: Baltimore! - Pre-Fall Program - Orientation - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
^ "Page Not Found - Loyola University Maryland". www.loyola.edu. Retrieved October 24, 2017. Cite uses generic title (help)
^ "Loyola Accepts Invitation To Join Patriot League In 2013," Loyola University Maryland Athletics, Wednesday, August 29, 2012.
^ "Loyola College (Maryland)" (PDF). National Collegiate Athletic Association. Retrieved October 11, 2008.
^ "The year in American Soccer - 1976". sover.net. Archived from the original on May 20, 2009. Retrieved November 2, 2008.
^ Loyola athlete charting course for Paralympics - baltimoresun.com Archived July 24, 2008, at the Wayback Machine, Baltimoresun.com. Retrieved on November 2, 2008
^ "The Starting Block: Olympic Qualifier Katie Hoff to coach at Loyola this Fall". Thestartingblock.blogspot.com. July 6, 2008. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "Hoff 'super-motivated' about leaving Baltimore". Baltimoresun.com. August 20, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2009.
^ "2009-2010 Roster". Retrieved March 22, 2010.
^ "Dr. Kelly DeVries". loyola.edu. Archived from the original on November 27, 2010. Retrieved January 27, 2010.
^ "An Abolitionist Defends the South". Lewrockwell.com. Retrieved October 11, 2017.
^ "Hillary in Drag". Lewrockwell.com. Retrieved October 21, 2008.
External links[edit]
Official website 
Loyola Maryland Athletics website
vteLoyola University MarylandAcademics
Sellinger School of Business and Management
Athletics
Loyola Greyhounds
Men's basketball
Women's basketball
Men's lacrosse
Men's soccer
Rugby
Mid-Atlantic Rugby Football Union
Patriot League
Johns Hopkins–Loyola lacrosse rivalry
Loyola–Towson lacrosse rivalry
Diane Geppi-Aikens
Buildings
Humanities Center
Reitz Arena
Ridley Athletic Complex
History
Alumni
Presidents
The Rev. John Early, SJ
The Rev. Anthony F. Ciampi, SJ
The Rev. W. G. Read Mullan, SJ
The Rev. Joseph A. Sellinger, SJ
The Rev. Harold Ridley, SJ
The Rev. Brian F. Linnane, SJ
Mount Saint Agnes College
Student life
Relay For Life
WLOY
Articles related to Loyola University Maryland
vtePatriot LeagueFull members (all sports)
Bucknell Bison
Colgate Raiders
Holy Cross Crusaders
Lafayette Leopards
Lehigh Mountain Hawks
Full members (except football)
American Eagles
Army Black Knights
Boston University Terriers
Loyola Greyhounds
Navy Midshipmen
Associate members (football only)
Fordham Rams
Georgetown Hoyas
Associate members (other sports)
MIT Engineers (women's rowing)
Richmond Spiders (women's golf)
vteAssociation of Jesuit Colleges and UniversitiesEast
 Boston College (MA)
Holy Cross (MA)
Fairfield (CT)
Canisius (NY)
Le Moyne (NY)
Fordham (NY)
Saint Peter's (NJ)
Saint Joseph's (PA)
Scranton (PA)
Loyola Maryland (MD)
Georgetown (DC)
Mid West
Creighton (NE)
Detroit Mercy (MI) 
John Carroll (OH)
Xavier (OH)
Loyola Chicago (IL)
Marquette (WI)
Rockhurst (MO)
Saint Louis (MO)
South
Wheeling Jesuit (WV)
Loyola New Orleans (LA)
Spring Hill (AL)
West
Gonzaga (WA)
Seattle (WA)
Loyola Marymount (CA) 
San Francisco (CA)
Santa Clara (CA)
Regis (CO)
Graduate
Berkeley (CA)
Weston (MA)
 Catholicism portal
vte Colleges and universities in the Baltimore metropolitan areaPublic institutions
Coppin State University
Morgan State University
Towson University
University of Baltimore
University of Maryland, Baltimore
University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Private institutions
Goucher College
Johns Hopkins University
Loyola University Maryland
Maryland Institute College of Art
Notre Dame of Maryland University
Peabody Institute
Stevenson University
Stratford University
Community colleges
BCCC Liberty Heights
BCCC Downtown Harbor
BCCC Life Sciences Institute
CCBC Catonsville
CCBC Dundalk
CCBC Essex
Anne Arundel CC
Carroll CC
Harford CC
Howard CC
vte
Colleges and universities in MarylandPublic  institutions
Bowie State University
Coppin State University
Frostburg State University
Morgan State University
St. Mary's College of Maryland
Salisbury University
Towson University
United States Naval Academy
University of Baltimore
University of Maryland Biotechnology Institute
University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
University of Maryland Eastern Shore
University of Maryland Global Campus
University of Maryland, Baltimore
University of Maryland, Baltimore County
University of Maryland, College Park
University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Virginia–Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine
Private  institutions
Baltimore International College
Capitol Technology University
Goucher College
Hood College
Johns Hopkins University
Loyola University Maryland
Maryland Bible College &amp; Seminary
Maryland Institute College of Art
McDaniel College
Mount St. Mary's University
Yeshivas Ner Yisroel
Notre Dame of Maryland University
St. John's College
St. Mary's Seminary and University
Stevenson University
TESST College of Technology
Washington Adventist University
Washington College
Community  colleges
Allegany College of Maryland
Anne Arundel Community College
Baltimore City Community College
College of Southern Maryland
Community College of Baltimore County
Carroll Community College
Cecil College
Chesapeake College
Frederick Community College
Garrett College
Hagerstown Community College
Harford Community College
Howard Community College
Montgomery College
Prince George's Community College
Wor–Wic Community College
Defunct  institutions
Asbury College
Baltimore College
Baltimore Hebrew University
Calvert College
Cokesbury College
Eastern Christian College
Mount Hope College
Mount Saint Agnes College
National Labor College
National Park Seminary
New Windsor College
Newton University
Sojourner–Douglass College
St. Charles College
Saint Joseph College
Washington University
Woodstock College
vteSports teams based in MarylandAustralian rules football
USAFL/EAFL/WAFA
Baltimore Dockers
Baseball
MLB
Baltimore Orioles
EL
Bowie Baysox
CL
Frederick Keys
SAL
Delmarva Shorebirds
Hagerstown Suns
NYPL
Aberdeen IronBirds
AtL
Southern Maryland Blue Crabs
Basketball
ABA
Baltimore Hawks
DMV Warriors
Hub City Hogs
Maryland Bulldogz
PG Valor
CBL
Baltimore Shuckers
Football
NFL
Baltimore Ravens
Washington Football Team
IWFL
Baltimore Nighthawks
WSFL
Baltimore Burn
MAIFL
Maryland Eagles
Hockey
NAHL
Maryland Black Bears
Lacrosse
MLL
Chesapeake Bayhawks
UWLX
Baltimore Ride
WPLL
Baltimore Brave
Roller derby
WFTDA
Charm City Roller Girls
Mason-Dixon Roller Vixens
Salisbury Roller Girls
MRDA
Harm City Roller Derby
Rugby union
MARFU
Baltimore-Chesapeake
Maryland Exiles
Soccer
NWSL
Washington Spirit
NPSL
FC Baltimore Christos
FC Frederick
Maryland Bobcats FC
UPSL
SGFC Eagles Maryland
MASL
Baltimore Blast
Independent
Baltimore Kings
College athleticsNCAADivision I
Coppin State
Johns Hopkins men's lacrosse
Johns Hopkins women's lacrosse
Loyola
Maryland
Maryland-Baltimore County
Maryland-Eastern Shore
Morgan State
Mount St. Mary's
Navy
Towson
NCAADivision II
Bowie State
NCAADivision III
Johns Hopkins
St. Mary's
Main article: Sports in Maryland
vteRoman Catholic Archdiocese of BaltimoreChurchesand parishes
List
List of churches in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Baltimore
Cathedral
Cathedral of Mary Our Queen
Co-cathedral: Basilica of the National Shrine of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Pro-cathedral: St. Peter's Pro-Cathedral
Parish churches
St. Alphonsus
Holy Cross
Holy Rosary
St. Elizabeth of Hungary
St. John the Evangelist
St. Leo
St. Vincent de Paul
St. Wenceslaus
Our Lady of Pompeii
Chapels and shrines
National Shrine of St. Elizabeth Ann Seton
Catholiceducation
Seminaries
Mount St. Mary's Seminary
St. Mary's Seminary
Higher education
Loyola University Maryland
Mount St. Mary's University
Notre Dame of Maryland University
St. Mary's University
High schools
Archbishop Curley
Archbishop Spalding
Bishop Walsh School
Calvert Hall College
Cristo Rey Jesuit
Loyola Blakefield
Maryvale Preparatory School
Mercy
Mount de Sales Academy
Mount Saint Joseph
Notre Dame Preparatory School
Our Lady of Mount Carmel
St. Frances Academy
St. John's Catholic Preparatory
Saint Maria Goretti
St. Mary's
The Catholic High School of Baltimore
The John Carroll School
The Seton Keough
Closed educational institutions
Cardinal Gibbons School
Institute of Notre Dame
Towson Catholic High School
Woodstock College
Ordinaries
Archbishops
John Carroll, S.J.
Leonard Neale, S.J.
Ambrose Maréchal, P.S.S.
James Whitfield
Samuel Eccleston, P.S.S.
Francis Patrick Kenrick
Martin John Spalding
James Roosevelt Bayley
James Gibbons
Michael Joseph Curley
Francis Patrick Keough
Lawrence Shehan
William Donald Borders
William Henry Keeler
Edwin Frederick O'Brien
William Edward Lori
Auxiliary Bishops
Dominic Laurence Graessel
Alfred Allen Paul Curtis
Owen Patrick Bernard Corrigan
Thomas Joseph Shahan
John Michael McNamara
Lawrence Shehan
Jerome Aloysius Daugherty Sebastian
Thomas Austin Murphy
Thomas Mardaga
F. Joseph Gossman
Philip Francis Murphy
James Stafford
William Clifford Newman
John Ricard
Gordon Dunlap Bennett
W. Francis Malooly
Mitchell T. Rozanski
Denis J. Madden
Mark E. Brennan
Adam Parker
Bruce Lewandowski
Miscellany
Plenary Councils of Baltimore
The Catholic Review
Suffragan dioceses
Diocese of Arlington
Diocese of Richmond
Diocese of Wilmington
Diocese of Wheeling–Charleston
 Catholicism portal
 Maryland portal
Authority control 
GND: 1065324944
ISNI: 0000 0001 1014 2318
LCCN: n84124059
VIAF: 143118536
 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n84124059
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Loyola_University_Maryland&amp;oldid=973578565"
		Categories: Loyola University MarylandUniversities and colleges in BaltimoreJesuit universities and colleges in the United StatesEducational institutions established in 18521852 establishments in MarylandPatriot LeagueCatholic universities and colleges in MarylandAssociation of Catholic Colleges and UniversitiesHidden categories: Pages with URL errorsCS1 errors: generic titleAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles with dead external links from August 2018Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 maint: archived copy as titleArticles with dead external links from September 2017CS1 maint: numeric names: authors listWebarchive template wayback linksUse mdy dates from October 2017Articles containing Latin-language textCoordinates on WikidataPages using infobox university with the image name parameterInstances of Infobox university using image sizeWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with ISNI identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		العربيةDeutschEspañolفارسی中文
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 18 August 2020, at 01:18 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
