https://extranet.who.int/publicemergency
WHO Health Emergency Dashboard Disclaimer
The World Health Organization (WHO) Health Emergency Dashboard is a platform which aims to share information about public health events and emergencies. The data on the dashboard is refreshed every fifteen (15) minutes and data is accurate as at time of refreshing.
The WHO Health Emergency Dashboard is not a comprehensive representation of all the events and emergencies that WHO is aware of and responding to. The events displayed are a subset of those reported through official channels as mandated by the International Health Regulations (IHR 2005). The content of the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard is for general information only. It is subject to change without notice. While every reasonable effort has been made to make the information on the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard as timely and accurate as possible, WHO makes no claims, promises or guarantees about the effectiveness, completeness and accuracy of the contents of the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard, and expressly disclaims any liability for damages as a result of the use and/or application of the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard, errors and/or omissions in the content. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the content lies with the reader. WHO reserves the right to make updates and changes to posted content without notice and accepts no liability for any errors or omissions in this regard. WHO assumes no responsibility or liability for any consequence resulting directly or indirectly from any action or inaction readers take based on or made in reliance on the information and material available on the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard. While every reasonable effort has been made to use appropriate language and pictures on the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard, WHO expressly disclaims any responsibility for inadvertent offensive or insensitive, perceived or actual, language or pictures. WHO will take no responsibility for or be liable for the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard being temporarily unavailable in the event of technical or other issues.
The size of the pie charts corresponds to the number of events in a given country or territory; the size does not indicate the severity or risk associated with the event(s). The designations employed and the presentation of content on the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard, including names of the events, maps and other illustrative materials, do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning the delineation of frontiers and borders. Grey areas on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.
News and Publications
Frequently Asked Questions

The WHO Health Emergency Dashboard is not a comprehensive representation of all the events and emergencies that WHO is aware of and responding to. The events displayed are a subset of those reported through official channels as mandated by the International Health Regulations (IHR 2005). The content of the WHO Health Emergency Dashboard is for general information only.
The size of the charts corresponds to the number of events in a given country or territory; the size does not indicate the severity or risk associated with the event(s).
