  	Artist
  		Queer, Intersex Woman
							herenortherenearnorfar:Quick Star Wars AU for @gnomeicecream who has a lot of ideas, slightly altered according to my whims. Featuring Luke Skywalker Lan Xichen and some very sketchy worldbuilding. Keep reading
									3 weeks ago
									 (reblogged from herenortherenearnorfar)
							gnomeicecream asked: Wen Qing and Wei Wuxian decide that Wen Ning's undead body is not going to cut it. They make a new one together. Now they have to explain that its not a love baby, its a practical baby! A platonic baby! Won't everyone please listen?! 
							robininthelabyrinth:1“It’s like the cycle of reincarnation, but accelerated –” Wei Wuxian tried to explain.“I don’t want to hear it,” Jiang Cheng snapped. “I can’t believe you! What about the spirit already in there, huh? You can’t kill a baby!”“Jiang Cheng –”“No! Absolutely not! This is a step too far!”“But you don’t –”“Get lost!”2“We’re not killing a baby,” Wen Qing said, rubbing her head. “I promise.”A-Yuan looked at her with a trembling lip. “No?”“No. No dead babies. I promise.”“What about Ning-gege?”“…well. Uh. I mean. Temporarily –”“No killing Ning-gege!”3“Wen Ning doesn’t die,” Wei Wuxian explained. “His body as it exists now is unstable – like all fierce corpses, he’s dependent on resentful energy. We want to make it so that he won’t be.”“I see,” Jin Zixuan said. “So you’re transferring his souls into the other body.”“Exactly!”“The one you made with Wen Qing.”“Yes!”“And when are you getting married?”“Wait, what?!”4“We are definitely not getting married,” Wen Qing said. “Absolutely not. No way.”“You don’t like each other that way,” Nie Huaisang, who was visiting for the gawking value, said sympathetically.“Not in the slightest!”“That seems like a bit of a problem, though, doesn’t it?”“How so?”“I mean, what with you two having a baby together…”5“It is an artificial baby,” Wei Wuxian shouted. “We are manufacturing it using a combination of ingredients and a magical array! We are not having a baby together! We’re – we’re co-authoring this baby!”Lan Wangji nodded.“And it isn’t even a baby! It’s an artificial puppet body for Wen Ning to inhabit in an accelerated growth pattern so that he can resume something resembling a normal cultivator’s life! It just happens to resemble a human baby at first!”A hum.Wei Wuxian took a deep breath and sighed. “You really don’t have any questions?”Lan Wangji considered for a moment. “You two are not together?”“No.”Lan Wangji shrugged. “Fine, then.”“At least you understand me,” Wei Wuxian mumbled.
									3 months ago
									 (reblogged from robininthelabyrinth)
							herenortherenearnorfar:Quick Star Wars AU for @gnomeicecream who has a lot of ideas, slightly altered according to my whims. Featuring Luke Skywalker Lan Xichen and some very sketchy worldbuilding. Keep reading
									3 months ago
									 (reblogged from herenortherenearnorfar)
							Anonymous asked: As little kids, wwx and jc looked almost identical despite not being related. So they started pulling pranks on everyone by dressing identically or switching clothes and pretending to be each other. The only one they couldn't fool was jyl. 
							mondengel:fluffymdzsthoughts:“despite not being related” heh this makes me think of how anons love to submit to @angstymdzsthoughts about them actually being related one way or anothercute though ❤This brings up an old fic idea I had after watching the movie Shadow. (fantastic movie BTW, highly recommend)The movie deals with an old practice of finding an impoverished nobody who is a dead ringer for a member of nobility/the higher ups, and having that person trained to impersonate them and act as a decoy; Queen Amidala-style.  The “shadow” lives a secret life and no one knows them as their own person.  When they aren’t impersonating the important person, they’re nobody and hidden.My original idea was for the Twin Jades of Lan.  Born second and looking identical even at close scrutiny save for the color of their eyes, Lan Wangji was raised hidden to be his brother’s safeguard.  Wei WuXian would notice (Prestige-style) that sometimes “Lan Xichen” paid him special attention, stopped and listened to him, shared a few, spare words, sometimes his eyes said he loved him; but other times, he had only the friendliness of a formal acquaintance and didn’t remember sharing a few quiet words when no one else was around.   Couldn’t figure out how to make an actual story with it, so I never wrote it.  (free for the taking if anyone is interested)With Wei WuXian and Jiang Cheng, my mind immediately goes to Wei Changze was Jiang Fengmian’s shadow, and Jiang Fengmian chose to relieve him of service.  It was Wei Changze pretending to be Jiang Fengmian and falling in love with Cangse SanRen (who figured it out and loved Wei Changze, not Jiang Fengmian), that lead to the rumors about her and Jiang Fengmian.A lot of people never believe the “story” of this never-heard-of Jiang disciple that she supposedly ran off with, “and just look! See how much Wei Ying looks like Jiang Fengmian - the afair had to be true!”Again, don’t know where to go with this.  Maybe Madame Yu hated Wei WuXian so much because she wanted him to be Jiang Cheng’s shadow, shoved in the background and only existing to be his shield, but Jiang Fengmian refused in honor of his friend and wasted the golden opportunity, and now Wei WuXian is outstripping and outshining the boy he “should” be hidden and unseen behind his whole life.(hmmm….descent prequel/background to the WangXian version above?)I like the concept, but can’t think of a plot.  :(Again: free to anyone that is inspired.
									4 months ago
									 (reblogged from mondengel)
										via fluffymdzsthoughts
							leatherbookmark:gnomeicecream
 replied to your post  “currently i’m doing homework speedrun BUT i have been haunted by a…”
                        Meng Yao, being kept as Xichen’s pet “I am ok with this.”                    
Writes letters to Xichen with his little rat paws. Spys on his enemies. Nibbles cutely
SEVERAL IMPORTANT THINGS1. rat!my chilling in lxc’s sleeves, like that bird in nhs’ sleeves in one of the first eps.lan disciples: ‘have you noticed that recently, sect leader lan often keeps his hand in his sleeve?’ ‘oh yeah. have you noticed what he’s hiding there’*tiny whiskers and pink nose pick this exact moment to peek out out a sleeve carefully*lan disciples: !!!!!!!!!!!!!!2. my, when rat brain takes over and makes him put one tiny rat paw on the wet inkstone and then on the paper lxc is writing on: hehe stampmy, seconds later: AAAA WHAT HAVE I DONE (rodent terror)lxc: hehe stamp :-)3. lxc: gently pets my’s nose with his pinkymy: SOFTENS, unable to HANDLElxc: ??!? oh no???? are you ok little friend?!?!etc, etc,
									4 months ago
									 (reblogged from leatherbookmark)
							esper-aroon:attilarrific:moonbelowsea:attilarrific:moonbelowsea:attilarrific:So I was thinking about Star Wars and The Untamed—as you do—and not to be like, “hot take,” but regardless of who went dark side in canon, Wei Wuxian would actually make a much, much better Jedi than Lan Wangji would.
hey OP these are some fantastically thought provoking tags please tell us more???#actually he’d make a better jedi than most mdzs characters  #lxc might be okay but other than that  #and i mean i can’t think of a way to do a star wars au off the top of the head  #partly because i would want wwx to end up using the dark side because canon  #and uhhhhhhh bisexual disaster brain says yiling laozu hot  #but that really doesn’t work  #because genuinely in star wars canon he does not have the right personality to go to the dark side  #and again  #weirdly  #lwj DOES  #but i don’t tend to be that into role reversal aus so that’s not how i’d write it  #anyway  #JUST A THOUGHT  #modao zushi  WITH PLEASURE, @moonbelowsea. I mean, that was a wild 4am brainwave, but I mostly stand by it anyway? SO LET’S TALK ABOUT JEDI.(Also, this is gonna have spoilers by implication for anyone who hasn’t finished the show/book, so read with caution! And the spoiler will be for something that, from the bottom of my heart, I, someone who cares about spoilers not at all, would encourage you to remain unspoiled for.)So first off, in the Star Wars universe, there is no way to recreate the circumstances that had Wei Wuxian inventing demonic cultivation in canon. You cannot take away someone’s access to the Force without also taking away their access to the Dark Side. In the immortal words of Han Solo, “That’s not how the Force works.” And if that’s true, then Wei Wuxian doesn’t end up in a situation where the only option available to him is his single-plank bridge, because either the Force is there or the Dark Side also isn’t. Yeah, sure, the Dark Side is dubiously more powerful than the Force, but I don’t think that matters much, because the Force is pretty damn powerful, and…Wei Wuxian has never loved anything so much that he’s unwilling to lose it. He’s not ‘attached’ to anything. There’s a lot of stuff and people he loves very much, but never in a particularly possessive way, and never in a way that supplants his other goals. Wei Wuxian will fight to the ends of the earth and to his own destruction, but only for moral imperatives. Things he’s willing to give up: his golden core, his family, his home, his reputation, literally everything he has. He fights to save the Wens not because he doesn’t want to live without them, but because it’s the right thing to do. He doesn’t even know most of them. And when he does, he loses pretty much everything he has, which, so we’re clear, no one else is willing to do.There’s no possessive side to his love, nothing that he clings to when the only other option is letting go of his moral absolutes. You can make an argument that his inventing demonic cultivation is this on its own—that his use of an ethically dubious method to preserve his life and save the cultivation world from the Wens is comparable to going to the Dark Side for similar reasons (save the galaxy from the Wens, etc)—but again, I don’t think that’s necessarily a useful comparison, because you can’t replicate it based on Star Wars canon.LAN WANGJI, ON THE OTHER HAND. Lan Wangji’s love is deeply possessive (and not just in a kinky way, though, you know, that too). He’s incredibly attached to Wei Wuxian; he’s willing to go to incredible lengths to keep from losing him a second time. This turns out to be fine, because Wei Wuxian is, without a doubt, a good person and someone who deserves to be saved, but I don’t think that’s at the forefront of Lan Wangji’s mind—this is more explicit in book canon, but when they first (re)meet at Dafan Mountain and Jiang Cheng tries to hit Wei Wuxian with Zidian to force his soul out of the body he assumes Wei Wuxian is forcibly possessing, Lan Wangji blocks the strike. Zidian doesn’t work anyway because Wei Wuxian got resurrected via sacrifice, but Lan Wangji would have no reason to block it if he thought that—he assumes Wei Wuxian is forcibly possessing Mo Xuanyu (a Bad Thing) and therefore moves to prevent him being removed.I’m not even a little bit saying this makes Lan Wangji a bad person (it’s actually a personality trait I’m extremely fond of in fictional characters), but I am saying that being willing to do morally dubious things to prevent the loss of people you love (another book thing, but saving Wei Wuxian after the massacre at the Nightless City is frankly another example of this) is literally exactly what turned Anakin into Darth Vader in canon. Lan Wangji has no interest in vengeance (except on a very petty and non-violent level), which is a point in his favor and definitely lessens the possibility of him turning to the Dark Side, and he’s got enough self-restraint that I’m not saying it’s a done deal, but.Lan Wangji is the kind of character who would be an amazing Jedi, held up as a shining example to all, up until the point at which circumstances conspire to fuck Wei Wuxian over and he becomes a Sith Lord without warning, leaving people all around him going, “What? Him? Him???”Wei Wuxian, on the other hand, is the kind of guy who spends days in the Jedi vaults inspecting Sith holocrons and having terrible ideas and being disapproved of for being too reckless and emotional (though he actually isn’t? Lan Wangji is way more likely to make a choice based on emotions than Wei Wuxian is—this is why Wei Wuxian is a better Jedi), but then when it comes right down to it, his interest is purely academic. The Dark Side can’t touch him.I mean, to be fair, in Star Wars, your fellow Jedi can sense some of your feelings—so instead, Lan Wangji is always being reminded to chill and be more like Wei Wuxian, and other than Wei Wuxian’s distressing tendency to yeet himself out of speeders and go in without a plan, he’s the one the Council treats as the Perfect Jedi. And everyone around who isn’t a Jedi is just sitting there like, “What the fuck. What the actual fuck. How is this the dynamic. How does that guy need to calm down. THAT OTHER GUY JUST JUMPED OFF A BUILDING SCREAMING, ‘COME AT ME, WENS.’ What the fuck.”WHY do you keep hiding delicious goodness in the tags, @attilarrific. why.THE TAGS: 
#i have a lot of feelings about star wars and mdzs okay  #and lwj isn’t like  #inevitably going to become a sith lord  #he’s a lot harder to manipulate than anakin for one thing  #and he’s got more self-control  #but he’s definitely the kind of jedi the council is always a little worried about  #who always kind of has the dark side hovering at his edges  #because he’s too emotional!  #he can’t accept his feelings and release them into the force!  #and under the right circumstances  #yeah  #between the two of them  #he’s the one who’d become a sith lord  #modao zushi  #meta  THIS WAS ALL SO AMAZING. fascinating and well thought out and oh my god??? I loved reading it SO MUCH and it’s SUCH a wonderful and extremely well thought out look into their characterizations??? I want to print it out and carry it around with me for a while and see if a crossover comes fully formed out of the ether out of sheer obsessive willalthough I’ll argue, for the sake of argument, that if we WANT to keep the original societal dynamic (aka LWJ considered to be shining paragon and WWX the Fall risk), we could take away the part where Jedi can feel each other tendencies and emotions (I don’t read a lot of Star Wars fic but I haven’t seen that used before in what I’ve read, so I’m pretty sure it’s optional, and actually where did you get it from?, it sounds super interesting!)EITHER POSSIBILITY SOUNDS AMAZING AND HILARIOUS THOUGH. I now need 30 different crossovers with each exploring a different possible interpretation.more things to say, um. did I already mention I am in awe of the characterization you’ve teased out when constructing the crossover possibilities? because I am. that was fantastic. thank you for writing it out.Lan Wangji’s more morally dubious personality traits are something that are very very near and dear to my heart and which are actually fairly difficult to properly explore and it’s incredible to see them so clearly written out here. thank you.finally, something that I shamefully refrained from saying to the original post but I definitely should have: Yiling Laozu is indeed smoking hot.he shouldn’t be. he’s a disaster.possibly that adds to the hotness tho.@moonbelowsea: although I’ll argue, for the sake of argument, that if we WANT to keep 
the original societal dynamic (aka LWJ considered to be shining paragon 
and WWX the Fall risk), we could take away the part where Jedi can feel 
each other tendencies and emotions (I don’t read a lot of Star Wars fic 
but I haven’t seen that used before in what I’ve read, so I’m pretty 
sure it’s optional, and actually where did you get it from?, it sounds super interesting!)Did I…did I make that up? *searches memory frantically* IS THAT NOT A THING? I have read a lot of Star Wars fic, but to be fair, it’s been a while; it hasn’t been a main fandom of mine in years. And now that I’m thinking about it…it might mostly be a thing in master/padawan bonds? (Either in canon or fanon, I regularly lose track of which is which with Star Wars.)But if it’s only a master/padawan thing (or maybe I’m just making all of this up, damn, I’m going to have to go back and read more SW fic), that provides a THIRD FUNNY POSSIBILITY, which is:The Jedi Council fucking loves Lan Wangji, clearly the perfect Jedi, so calm, so at peace, so one with the Force—except for his original Jedi Master, who’s just standing there going, “WHAT CALM. Can you guys not tell that that kid is three mean comments from Jin Zixun and a bad hair day for Wei Wuxian away from becoming Darth Wei-Ying-Protection-Squad???” And the Jedi Council is always saying to Wei Wuxian, you know, “Quit being like this, you must,” but his Jedi Master is like, “Nah, he’s good. We’ve got nothing to worry about. You keep doing you, kid. I mean, maybe stop jumping out of moving vehicles, that shit stresses me out, please don’t die, but don’t worry about your feelings, your feelings are solid.”(I have no idea who their Jedi Masters are. MDZS canon suggests Lan Qiren and Jiang Fengmian as the most obvious options, but a) that gets into family dynamics we can’t have, and b) I’m actually very into the idea that an aged-up Lan Xichen is Lan Wangji’s Jedi Master, even though we’ve still got the family dynamic issue. But he’s the guy who Knows Lan Wangji.)But yeah—Lan Wangji, dude who loves possessively and dwells on every little thing and has never let a single thing go in his Entire Life? Definitely on track to be corrupted by the Dark Side. Wei Wuxian, guy who’s always cheerful and gives stuff up whenever it’s required of him and can’t even remember Jin Zixun’s name? He’s gonna be fine.(Also: Yiling Laozu thirst solidarity!!!)This is so on point, I love everything about this because you’re right – Wei Wuxian is the furthest thing from Sith material. Lan Wangji, on the other hand, probably spends his whole life right up against the edge of losing control and Falling.But! I think there is a way for Wei Wuxian to turn to the Dark Side and that would make him probably the most interesting Sith in the history of the Sith. Because there’s one Sith-esque thing that Wei Wuxian does in canon: take revenge. When he goes after Wen Chao, he’s vicious far beyond what duty or moral imperatives demand of him, and when the Wens are killed, he does let his grief and anger control him. I would argue that, both time, it’s a kind of righteous fury – based on the injustices and crimes committed – but Wei Wuxian’s love for those who’ve been hurt definitely drives him beyond that. Now, we could argue that he’d never gotten to that state without the influence of resentful energy/demonic cultivation and that’s a good point. However, some of Star Wars canon – some books in the extended universe I think – suggests that jedi can be basically tortured into Falling. Not sure how exactly this works; enough Dark Side influence around them, enough torment, and it destabilises a jedi’s mental balance? They become so desperate to escape their suffering they stop caring? They lose their minds and the ability to distinguish between Dark and Light? Whichever way it works, consider: the Burial Mounds as a Dark Side seeped Sith Temple where Wei Wuxian is held prisoner and tortured until he breaks.Except this is Wei Wuxian, who embodies the idea of detachment and duty to the point that self-sacrifice is not even a question for him. He’s not going to Fall to save himself. Maybe, if he truly goes insane – maybe then. Maybe he’s told his friends are dead and the Temple razed to the ground and in that Dark-infested place his righteous anger gets away from him. Or maybe they tell him that’s what will happend, maybe they dangle their plans in front of him, and it’s the desperation that drives him over the edge. Maybe even this: Wei Wuxian, who’s spent his youth poring over ancient texts on the Dark Side and the Sith and knows more about them than a dozen average jedi combined, takes a calculated risk and chooses to fall. He’ll play his jailers for fools and get out of there – and then figure out a way to unFall.(Did I write all this bc I fell in love with the idea of a jedi Wei Wuxian being academically interested in the Dark Side and then using his knowledge to make a controlled Fall? No, I’m also stuck on the image of Lan-always-two-steps-from-going-Sith-and-knowing-it-Wangji finding out about it and just being utterly horrified. This is not what was supposed to happen; Lan Wangji is the one at-risk, not Wei Wuxian. He hadn’t even thought to worry about Wei Wuxian turning!)
									4 months ago
									 (reblogged from mondengel)
										via attilarrific
							ljuyeon:i honestly don’t understand not reblogging things??? you do get how this site works don’t you?
									4 months ago
									 (reblogged from sarah-yyy)
										via baejoonyoung-archive
								Witcher Game Night
							I had a thought and I must share it: Rotating DM gaming nights. On the nights Geralt is the DM, its very cleverly thought out monster encounters with denizens of the monster manual you have never heard of who’s fluff has been taken to its logical conclusion. Jaskier complains about the lack of details about anything that is not the monsters, but can cobble something together from his session notes to put into his ongoing novel series. Ciri and Yen love the murder. Triss is trying to keep these idiots alive, and have they ever tried diplomacy? When Ciri is running things, it starts out very formulaic, you think you know what you are getting into. You have to rescue the fairies from the dwarves. But three sessions in, the fairies have been revealed as colonial powers against whom the dwarves are fighting a resources war, with goblins and trolls as outside pressure threats destabilizing both countries. Jaskier, Yen, and Triss all get really into the politics, talking things out, balancing resources verses ecological disaster. Geralt thinks they should both be left to die as all of their problems are their own fault, and pushes for the abolishment of both governments. His solution ultimately works, in that the fairy and dwarven royalty are all assassinated, and a joint council of races is elected to oversee the region.Jaskier brings the real sappy, love always wins, the power of song goodness. Triss and Ciri are his biggest fans. They attend a ball, where a murderer seeks to kill the Baron before he can abdicate to be with his one true love. Yen and Geralt look at eachother over the table, can you belive this shit? But then someone must provide true loves kiss to break the spell! Ciri and Triss and Jaskier “Kiss, kiss, kiss, kiss!” They dont really hate it. Triss says Its My Turn, and if you Are Not Nice I’ll Turn This Campaign Around! Don’t expect to draw steel (or silver) for a while while Triss is at the helm. But prepare for pirate adventures! Treasure in forgotten coves! Mermaid curses and kraken infested storms. The terrain becomes a player and only the gods can help you now if you didn’t invest your skill points wisely. The bard, Jaskier, becomes the MVP. But its such lighthearted fun everyone has a good time.  Yennifer couldn’t care less (she says). Like, I dunno, fight this griphon? Oh, I guess it has an egg, you could sell that. And so now you’ve pissed off its mother. Now you have to-“ and then the plot just keeps unfolding, one action leading to another in an unplanned, freestyle mess. Its the wackiest, most off the wall, emotionally messy game of them all. Everyone cries when Lion, the spellsword, lies down her life to save the druid Dawnseed so she can finish casting the spell that will save Yggdrasil from the serpent Nighog.
									6 months ago
							My pillowfortMy twitter
									1 year ago
								Lets talk about Astrariums, part three
							The Western Approach is Grey Warden central, but it didn’t used to be. According to a codex entree in the Ritual Tower, way back before the First Blight when Tevinters took advantage of “the natural weakness in the Veil” in this area and the remote location to study dangerous magic. What kind of magic would those whackos think was to dangerous? We’re gonna find out. Another location with similar properties is Aeonar, which those of you who played the mage origins will remember as the prison that Lily was sent to. The location was sacked by Andrastans and only Templars know where it is now.To get into the theme of the area there is a creature called the Varghest (which means Var-ghost) which is believed to be the manifestation of a spirit that judged the wicked then devours them. They are related to dragons and wyverns. Show me the Astrariums!
Toth in Griffon Wing KeepFenrir outside the Prison RuinsSatinalis above Echoback Fort 
The Griffon Wing Keep seems like it must have been built after the First Blight, because of its association with Grey Wardens but that isn’t necessarily the case. Just like all of our Inquisition forts it could have simply been a re-purposed building made by Vints, like pretty much every other structure in the area. Its age is also hinted at by the caves below. Like usual, one of Solas’ handy dandy artifacts is nearby, and a hidden rune of fire.“The only constellation to maintain its ancient name in the
 present day, the constellation Toth directly corresponds to the ancient
 Tevinter Old God known as Toth, the Dragon of Fire. The depiction of 
this constellation varies, usually represented either as a man aflame 
(in agony, presumably a victim of the Old God) or as a flaming orb. 
Scholars in the Divine Age attempted to officially change the 
nomenclature to "Ignifir” (this is why some old texts record it as 
such), but the attempt never caught on, even after the eradication of 
Old God worship in the Imperium.“An orb, you say? Like, Solas’ 
orb? The depiction of a man aflame also seems very similar to the 
depictions of elves on the wall paintings. The lack of any conflation 
with an older deity may mean this constellation might not have existed in the elven
 days, and was named after the fall of the Arlathan. Or, it is a depiction of the fall of Arlathan. This can be 
supported by the next Astrarium  Fenris, which is obviously 
Fen'Harel. Lets move on to the exciting one!Fenrir is found near the ruins of an old Tevinter prison where people were sent to disappear, once called Coracavus. Lets look around. The ruins are connected to the Deep 
Roads, and are leaking Darkspawn. Our glyph is hidden in an interogation room but doesn’t have an obvious elven connection. There are some clues though, that more or less prove that the art of Vielfire glyph making was not lost with the fall of Arlathan. A certain prisoner called 
"Gallus, Property of 
House Lartys” was arrested for “Conspiring to commit treason (given over for further 
interrogation)” according to a note found in the prison. If he was a slave at that time, there are better then even odds he was an elf. His treason couldn’t have been anything so mundane as an escape attempt, or he wouldn’t have been shipped out to this hell hole. In fact, it may tie this particular elf to rebellion, and his nearby Astrarium to Fen’Harel. I couldn’t find anything on House Lartys except a loot drop of a slave branding ring so one last thing before we move on. There is a note that says “ Think of the power locked in these wastes. We need only 
to find it. Once liberated, we shall never rely on tincture of lyrium or
 crude bloodwork again. Is that not worth any risk, to become a little 
godlike ourselves?” Hm, whats this about?  It
 seems to be about the experiments at the Still Ruin, but something to give 
mortals godlike power? Interesting. Enough background, lets look at this Astrarium.“Called “White Wolf” in common parlance, Fenrir has always been 
considered an oddity among scholars, primarily because wolves have no 
special place within ancient Tevinter folklore. To many, this represents
 the strongest argument that the Imperium deliberately supplanted older 
elven constellation names—in the case of Fenrir, an alignment with the 
elven trickster god, Fen'Harel, would be logical. Others claim a much 
older Neromenian tale of a wolf escaping hunters by fleeing into the sky
 exists, but the legend’s veracity has never been proved.”There 
are a few instances where elven myth and Norse myth intersect, and I am 
going to take a short moment to point some out so we can ponder where 
the game is coming from and where it is going with Solas. Most 
obviously is the tie to the son of Loki and a Giant, Fenris. He was asked to prove how strong he was by breaking a binding, but he didn’t trust the 
gods to play fair. So Tyr, god of law and justice, put his hand in the wolfs 
mouth. (Who else do we know that lost a hand to the Wolf? Eh, eh?) The chains that bound him 
were made by the dwarves. The dwarves in this setting have some 
connection to the far more powerful Titans, but it is Solas who bound away the elven gods. Did it have something to do with a power derived from Titans? The theory that the orb is a
 Titans heart gives that theory some weight. When he is freed, he will 
destroy the world and eat the king of the gods. This has yet to come, 
but Solas has basically said its his plan. Also “his sons will eat the sun,
 moon stars and time.” Time has already taken a bit of a spanking thanks to Dorian sense 
Fen'Harel began walking again.  He has consumed Mythal (goddess of the 
moon). Maybe Elgar'Nan is going to be an entree soon.The Numenorian 
legend actually helps us prove this is Fen'Harel. There is a legend 
about how Fen was hunting in Andruils woods, and she caught him. She 
demanded that he pay by serving as her bed slave for a year. He tricked 
both a Forgotten One and Andruil into fighting, and escaped while they 
were K.O.ed.Moving on to the last one, 
Satinalis above Echoback Fort. We know the Tevinters were here because a society of them were placing Astrariums, but there is more proof in a codex entree that says “The references are obscure, but they 
point to a single power, sealed at the height of the old empire. 
Tevinter’s involvement in the region predates the First Blight.” Thanks,
 friend! This is found in the Still Ruins.Nearby is a Hidden Stair with ‘clawed feet’ marks. Like, the dragon men from the wall paintings? A Grey Warden expedition tried to get to the Old God sealed in the area but the ground was so infused with lyruim that is shook apart as they dug. Even normal people could hear the ‘song’. The idol to Razikale found here, and the fact that Old God isn’t dead yet, leads people to belive that is who is trapped here. That’s bad news with the darkspawn presence. Anyway.There is a place called the Still Ruins that is said to be Tevinter, though I have my doubts. Who likes taking elven things and saying it’s thier? Vints. Who is working with magic they don’t understand, that they might have just found around the place? Vints. For further proof (though it could have been moved, I guess) there is one of Solas’ artifacts. More conclusivly, there is a hidden glyph for a spirit rune in the inner sanctum. This is just like all the other places that have been near astraruims, so far, so the evidence is pretty strong. Oh, and look at that, there is another mosaic piece! Lets see if it ties into any of our astrariums! Its a piece of the Archdemon moziac. This may mean this mosiac can’t be newer then the first blight. Oh, but look, one of the pieces is right next to an astrarium even. That can’t be a coincidence. I am going to bet this was done near/around the First Blight. There are seven (that number again) magisters shown.The codex for this points out a few things. The dragon has three heads, following from the biggest Tevinters line past the first head, then under the chin of the second two. It an be hard to see. These could be three Archdemons, but the dwarf doesn’t think so. Instead, it is three reactions.The artist was speaking not just with image, but also the depth of the relief cuts. There are 4 tiers/depths of cuts. There are a total of seven lines. 1.Four lines with four corresponding magisters are a part of the dragon and in its favor. 2.  Line one which pierces the dragon is on the same tier as the one that is the second from the left, and the middle head which is turned away. 3. Line two which pierces the dragon is the same as the Vint fifth from the left, and the first head turned away. 4. The line that misses is the same tier as the large, farthest right Tevinter. The dragon is looking at him. The other Magisters are not acknowledged by the dragon, even though they hurt him. This guy didn’t ( “he faked it”) but the dragon looks at him. The dwarf goes on to note that there are no faces even though there could be. He suggests that this could mean that these are not specific people, but allegories for Tevinter itself. Four ages where they are a part of the dragon, two ages where they damage it, and one where they miss the point entirely and get eaten. Satinalis is above Echoback Fort. “Referred to as either "Satina” (after the moon) or as “Satinalia” (after the holiday) in common parlance, the constellation Satinalis has always been depicted by the Celebrant: a seated man playing a lyre. It should be noted that, in ancient Tevinter, the constellation was known as “Mortemalis,” and was represented by a warrior holding aloft a head (usually that of an elf). The movement to officially rename it took hold in the Divine Age, and after eight hundred years, the original is all but forgotten.“Because of its association with Satinalia, I am going to go ahead and say this consolation is ascendant during the winter months, possibly around the new year, and the winter equinox, and the longest night. Lets take a minute to talk about the moons.Does Thedas have two moons? Lore says yes, but we only have the name for one, Satina. There is a theory I like that each moon is seasonal. The small moon with a crack we saw in Origons is one for summer, and the large cratered moon we see in Inquisition is the other for winter. This would explain why the Holiday of Satinalia exists. Its when that moon does something, like being in the middle of its cycle. The timing of holidays might also help us determine which constellation goes with who. Would this mean that the moons have a criss cross orbit, instead of looping the equator? As for why the weather and tides aren’t fucked….one of the moons is in the Fade, and therefor lacks a gravitational and magnetic presence in reality. (Tinfoil hat activated!)Now, Mythal is the goddess of the moon, but I’m not sold on this one being hers. Silentir has much better evidence.  That may mean this constellation was for the Hearthkeeper, Sylaise. In her codex it says "in her youth, Sylaise stayed at the home-tree to sing and make art”. Now, this makes great sense for her to be making music. Of course there is an elven artifact nearby, and a glyph. This one is for frost. It is a winter constellation.Its interesting that the statues of Sylaise and of Andraste are both shown holding a flame, and both ladies are associated with it. Maybe we have been side eyeing the wrong elven goddess all along. 
									4 years ago
						« Previous
						1/2
						Next »
		Ask me anything
	  Ashley theme by Jxnblk
