http://thailawforum.com/articles/Education-And-Training-2.html


Thailand Law Journal 2009 Spring Issue 1 Volume 12
Our information on  training is available either as a dummy variable (for whether the individual  experienced any training event during the reference period) or as a continuous  variable (the average number of hours of training per month) with left  censoring at zero hours. Assuming that the individual effect <<mu>>  and the errors <<epsilon>>F and <<epsilon>>O  are normally distributed, we use either a probit or a tobit model to study  training incidence and intensity. In the former case we explicitly take into account  the possibility of contemporaneous correlation between errors by using a  bivariate probit.
A feature of  equations (1)-(3) is that they include unmeasured individual talent <<mu>>,  which is correlated with educational attainment if the more talented are also  more likely to be better educated, a plausible assumption. If education affects  the returns to training, but unmeasured talent does not, then a fixed-effects  estimator will remove the time-invariant individual effect from (3) and produce  unbiased estimates. However, if talent affects the private returns to training,  fixed-effects estimation will produce a biased estimate of the impact of  education on these returns. To avoid this bias, we have to instrument education  in the fixed-effects estimate of the earnings equation. [FN4]
The training  equations (1) and (2) can be treated as limited information simultaneous  limited dependent variable models, as in Smith and Blundell (1986), and the  correlation between education and unmeasured ability can generate a  simultaneous equation bias. We deal with the potential endogeneity of education  as follows. First, we assume that unobserved ability is partly the consequence  of the genetic and environmental contributions of the family (see Willis 1986; Plug  and Vijverberg 2003) and include in the training equations the father's, mother's,  and oldest sibling's education [FN5] and the number of siblings. The underlying idea is that cognitive development  in relatively poor economies is affected both by parental education and by  nutritional status--see, for instance, Behrman  et al. (2003) and Martorell (1997)--and that the latter is determined in part  by the resources devoted to each child, which are related in turn to the number  of siblings. We also add province of birth dummies, because the local  environment matters in the development of individual talent. [FN6] Even after the analysis  conditions on family background and the province of birth, however, residual  ability could be correlated with educational attainment. Therefore, we need  instrumental variables. Let educational attainment E be given by
(4)  E = <<PI>>Z + <<epsilon>>E,
where Z is a vector of exogenous variables, which  includes individual characteristics such as gender and a third order polynomial  in age, family background variables, and province of birth dummies,  plus at least one variable omitted from equations (1)-(3).
Our instruments for  educational attainment--which we omit from the training and earnings equations--are  birth order (a dummy taking the value 1 if the individual is the oldest son or  daughter and 0 otherwise), the mother's age at the time of the individual's  birth, and the interaction of those two variables. These variables capture  household preferences in the decision to provide education to the offspring, and  are not related in any obvious way to unobserved  ability, once we have conditioned for parental education, the number of  siblings, and province of birth. For instance, the older son/daughter may have  priority in the allocation of the resources devoted by the household to  education. Moreover, very young mothers may value education of the offspring  less than do more mature mothers. We focus on the mother rather than the father  because the age of the former at the time of the interviewed individual's birth  is less likely to be correlated with available household resources--and  nutrition--than the age of the latter, due to the lower labor force  participation of women, the less accentuated life-cycle pattern of female  earnings, or both.
We fit years of  education on the variables included in the vector Z and use the Bound F-test to  verify whether the selected instruments are jointly statistically significant  in the first stage regression. Following Smith and Blundell (1986), we also  compute residuals and add them to the explanatory variables in (1) and (2), in  order to test whether education can be treated as weakly exogenous with respect  to training.
Data
The employee survey  on which our empirical investigation is based covers firms belonging to four  manufacturing sectors: food processing, auto parts, hard disk drives, and  computer components. The latter two industries are high-tech and dominated by subsidiaries of foreign  manufacturers. Thailand is one of the largest production locations for hard  disk drives and related components, and this industry is one of the country's  major exporters (see Doner and Brimble 1998). The first two industries use more  labor-intensive production technologies and include a substantial share of  domestic firms. Despite being high-tech, HDD and computer firms are also fairly  labor-intensive, as production gets outsourced in Thailand from abroad to take  advantage of the favorable price of labor.
Although we do not  pretend that this selection of industries results in a statistically  representative sample, we believe it provides reasonable coverage of Thai  industry. Due to research budget constraints, we restricted our attention to  firms with plants located in the Greater Bangkok area and with more than 100  employees. Firms in the four industries were approached and asked to  participate in the survey. Overall, twenty firms agreed to participate--five in  food processing, five in auto parts, six in personal computers, and four in the  HDD industry. Each of the firms in the sample had more than 100 employees (in  the HDD industry, more than 1,000). After restricting our sample to production  workers, technicians, and engineers, we stratified employment in each firm by  age and education and randomly sampled employees within each cell, using larger  weights for smaller firms.
Each selected  employee was interviewed in the summer of 2001 by trained personnel hired by the Thailand Development  Research Institute (TDRI), which cooperated in the project. Because the  questionnaire was rather lengthy (121 questions), individual interviews lasted,  on average, 40 minutes. The questionnaire asked for detailed information on  family background, education, previous job experience, current job or position,  training, and monthly labor income net of bonuses but including overtime.
The questions on  wages and training were asked not only for the reference period of the survey (year  2001) but also for the years 1998-2000. The time framing of some of the  retrospective questions was designed to generate predetermined variables. For example, monthly wages were asked with reference to January of each year, and  questions on training incidence referred to the calendar year. Therefore, training  in 1999 could be considered as predetermined with respect to wages in 2000, which  are measured in January 2000. Our empirical results are based on the sample  covering all available years. Since recall data are affected by different types  of measurement error (see Beckett et al. 2001 for a review), we also check to  see whether restricting attention to the subsample covering only the last year  in the sample (2001) makes an appreciable difference.
[FN4]. We are grateful to an  anonymous referee for bringing this issue to our attention.
[FN5].  When the interviewed individual is the oldest, we use the educational attainment of the second oldest sibling.
[FN6]. Although the survey was  conducted in the vicinity of Bangkok,  the sample employees were originally from 56 (out of 79) different provinces of  the country. Regional disparities in income and educational attainment  are large.
This  article is published with the kind permission of Kenn Ariga and Giorgio  Brunello. The article originally appeared in Volume 59, Issue 4, July 2006, of  the Industrial and Labor Relations Review. Copyright Cornell   University.


© 
            Copyright Thailand Law Forum, All Rights Reserved
            


          
          (except where the work is the individual works of the authors as noted)
