			En Español
					MyLAUSD
					Superintendent
					Board of Education
			          Board Meeting Agendas
					Offices
					Local Districts
					Contact Us -->
		Los Angeles Unified School District
			Home
			About LAUSD
						District Information
						District Goals
						District Strategies
						Local Districts
						District School Calendars
						Maps
						Facilities
						Fingertip Facts
			Resources
						Instruction
						Email Services
						Doing Business
						Collaboration Tools
						Communications
						Data Reports
						Emergency Information
						ELibrary
			Employment
						Adult &amp; Career Education
						Certificated/ Administrative
						Certificated/ Teaching
						Classified
						Early Childhood Education
						Jobs Open to the Public
			Find-a-School
					Tech Support
					Email
					Hotline
					Twitter
					Facebook
					Youtube
					K
	Search
				S
				F
				E
				C
				Marcia S. Reed Named Among Nation’s Best K-8 Principals
						Educator at 186th St. Elementary chosen as best in California
						GARDENA, Calif. - Marcia S. Reed, principal of 186th Street Elementary School in Gardena, was selected as California’s 2016 National Distinguished Principal. 
“Reed was nominated and selected by her fellow principals through a statewide search process conducted by the Association of California School Administrators,” said Elementary Principal Representative Ron Tanimura.
The National Association of Elementary School Principals established the program in 1984 to celebrate elementary and middle-level principals, who set high standards for instruction, student achievement, character, and climate for their learning communities. 
“At the helm of every successful school is a successful principal,” said Gail Connelly, executive director of the elementary school principals group. “Our National Distinguished Principals program provides us with an opportunity to recognize the outstanding leadership of these principals and their commitment to creating successful learning communities. Because of them, students thrive academically, teachers grow professionally, and communities are strengthened.”
Principal Reed, a graduate of the University of Southern California, previously served as assistant principal, coordinator, and teacher. She has been principal since 2004 of 186th St. Elementary School, which is part of the Los Angeles Unified School District. 
In October, Principal Reed expects to attend two days of activities in Washington D.C. that recognizes elementary and middle school educators by state, the District of Columbia, as well as private and overseas schools. 
Those honored come from schools where principals lead programs that benefit all students, both academically and socially. In addition, the principals must have established community ties with parents and local business organizations.  
Under Principal Reed’s leadership, 186th St. Elementary School became a 2016 California Gold Ribbon Award School and a 2016 Title 1 Academic Achievement Award School.  
Recently, Takeshi Uchiyamada, chairman, Toyota Motor Corp. honored Principal Reed at the Society of Automotive Engineers 2016 World Congress in Detroit for her commitment to science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Known collectively as STEM, educators weave together these four subject areas into a cohesive learning program that may lead students to pursue careers in these fields.
She also received an Outstanding Community Partner Award by the Alpha Kappa Alpha Tau Beta Omega Society, and received numerous awards for her work with Toyota.  
Principal Reed and her husband, Marty, live in Long Beach, and have three adult children: Maree, Marques and Marti.   
Since 1971, the Association of California School Administrators has served as California’s professional educational association and now represents 5,155 of elementary and middle-level principals throughout the state. The organization maintains close ties with the metropolitan Washington, D.C.-based National Association of Elementary School Principals, and its 20,000 members worldwide.
                                                         ###
Contact: Daryl Strickland (213) 241-6766 
							Print
© Los Angeles Unified School District
333 S Beaudry Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90017
Phone: (213) 241-1000
Keep in touch with LAUSD
Email Address: 
Name: 
 Parent
 Employee
 Student
Website Accessibility for the Disabled
Nondiscrimination Policy
Google Translate
Arabic
Bulgarian
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Filipino
Finnish
French
German
Greek
Hebrew
Hindi
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Norwegian
Polish
Portuguese
Romanian
Russian
Spanish
Swedish
Vietnamese
