twenty sidescosie; 37; bisexual; non-binary; super into the untamed right now but always into hockeyhomeaskarchiveao3viewing posts filed under #*cries softly*emalkin71Sunday, August 05, 2018 with 239 notesemalkin71
“But you know…the most important thing is probably love. I want to say that we are, our family.. your parents, me and your son, we all feel your love.. and we love you very much. And I want you to know, that we are always with you, we are your family, we are your home, we are your back. We love you so much, Happy Birthday”
(x) 
*cries softly*anna kasterovaevgeni malkinpittsburgh penguinsSource:emalkin71foamingwithlonelinessSunday, August 05, 2018 with 370 notes*cries softly*chris kunitzmaureen kunitzconor shearyjordan sullivanbrian dumoulinkayla ermoldkathy leutnersidney crosbyscott wilsonjustin schultzian colepittsburgh penguinsbuffalo sabrescolorado avalanceand another team but who caresSource:foamingwithlonelinesssidneycrosbyonepictureadaySaturday, July 14, 2018 with 67 notes*cries softly*i love himsidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsehghtysevenSunday, July 01, 2018 with 198 notesehghtysevengeno at the world cup 2018 | spain v russia[via anna’s instagram story]*cries softly*i love himevgeni malkinpittsburgh penguinsSource:ehghtysevenhockeyplayersaskidsMonday, January 22, 2018 with 287 noteshockeyplayersaskidsSidney Crosby*cries softly*sidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsSource:hockeyplayersaskidssidmalkinSunday, November 26, 2017 with 95 notessidmalkinCoach Sullivan on presenting Chris Kunitz with his Stanley Cup ring: “It’s one of the more fulfilling parts of the job when you have an opportunity to do that… He’s meant so much to this organization over the years.” (x)*cries softly*i miss youchris kunitzmrsfleury91Wednesday, October 25, 2017 with 293 notes*cries softly*mitch marneraboutmatt martinSource:mrsfleury91ehghtysevenFriday, October 20, 2017 with 402 notesehghtyseven’I have small head.’
↳
the days when geno could actually get a football helmet on his head [x]*cries softly*evgeni malkinpascal dupuispittsburgh penguinsmaljicFriday, October 06, 2017 with 228 notesmaljicFlower get’s his first W as a knight*cries softly*marc-andre fleuryvegas golden knightsSource:maljic71tenseventeenThursday, September 28, 2017 with 50 notesShelter-Pt. 571tenseventeenSidney sleeps in the next morning, a rare Saturday with no game and no practice, and other than getting up to use the bathroom and once to snag a bowl of cereal, he spoils himself by spending the entire morning lazing in bed.He’s kicked back in only his boxers, reading his very well worn copy of Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince when he hears the heavy knock on the door.   Sidney freezes, his entire body tense and he’s not even religious but he squeezes his eyes shut tight and prays to any deity that will listen that it just please, please not be Troy.  Please don’t let it be Troy.  He hears Mom’s voice as she answers the door and then a man’s voice and his stomach drops for a split second before he realizes that isn’t Troy’s voice—it’s Geno’s. Sidney has a moment of immense relief before he realizes Oh my GOD, Geno is there and he’s just wearing boxers and his hair is almost certainly a nightmare of fluffy, untamed curls and both voices are getting closer to his room.  Shit. He has just enough time to grab last night’s tee from the floor and pull it over his head when Mom taps on his door a couple of times and opens it. “Sidney, Geno’s here.”  Sidney pushes his head through the neck hole of the shirt with as much dignity as he can muster.  Mom just smiles and heads back to the living room. “Geno, hey.  What’s, um, what’s up?”  Geno grins and plops down on the foot of Sidney’s unmade bed like he’s been here a million times. “Hey Sid.  Thought I see if you want hang out today, realize I don’t have phone number. I see on TV,  Maplefest downtown today!” “Maplefest?” “So much food, Sid.  Maple bacon, maple pops, maple glazed ham, lots other maple foods. We go, try everything!” “I…okay?” What else could he say? Geno beams at him. “Best, Sid!  Going to be fun!” “I need to shower first. I’ll be quick.”  “No rush, Sid. I wait here for you.”  Geno reaches out and picks up the book Sidney knocked to the floor in his haste to get a shirt on. “Good book, I read while I wait.”  Sidney has no idea how, in the space of a few days, he has a brand new friend who is poking around his room like they’ve known each other all their lives but he doesn’t want to question it.  He doesn’t know how this happened or how long it will last but he likes it, he likes having a friend, especially one like Geno who is so easy to be around.  As Sidney grabs clean clothes and traipses to the bathroom, he smiles; he has a friend and he’s going to enjoy every moment of it. Sidney isn’t sure what he expected to find at Maplefest but he didn’t expect the massive crowds that seem to be filling the streets.  It takes them awhile to find a parking spot but eventually they do and take off towards the entrance.  The festival is lining both sides of a long street with the crossroads barricaded and one main entrance.  It isn’t until they get in the long line to enter and Sidney sees people clearly paying for an armband of sorts that he starts to worry.  Geno hadn’t wanted Sidney to give him anything towards the pizza the night before but after a minor quibble, he agreed to take five dollars.   Sidney still had the remaining $15 but he had no idea how much this was going to cost.  He felt his cheeks flush and he felt utterly stupid for not realizing sooner that this obviously wouldn’t be a free event.  He took a deep breath—there was no way he was going to wait until they were at the front of the line—and forced himself to speak. “Geno, what are the armbands for?”“For get in, get access to different number of different booths to try.” “Is it….do you know how much it costs?”   Geno shrugs. “Not matter.  I already have.” And he pulls two red armbands out of his hoodie pocket. “Mama and Papa decide not to go, give to me, tell me give one to a friend.”  He holds the armband out to Sidney with a sweet smile.  “Red mean ten foods, Sid!”“Oh.  Thanks.  I—thank you. I mean, do you want some money for this?” Geno shook his head and frowned.  “No Sid.  Not sell to you. Give to you.” “Okay Geno.”  Sidney’s voice is soft. “Thank you.  It’s…this will be fun.”  “Most fun, Sid.  We eat all maple foods then go play Halo.  Best Saturday.” And they do. Geno is like a kid with absolutely ridiculous amounts of enthusiasm as he drags Sidney from booth to booth. He seems both amazed and thrilled at all the different foods that have been prepared with maple syrup and he chatters excitedly. It’s infectious and Sidney finds himself laughing a lot.  They both try a lot.  Sidney’s partial to the maple glazed bacon and the maple ice cream while Geno nearly loses his mind over the maple snow pop station.Sidney is intensely skeptical of the maple burger Geno digs in to but they both love the maple bbq pulled pork sandwich and they both hate the maple salmon. By the time they shuffle their way back to Geno’s car, three hours have passed and they have full bellies and smiles on their faces.  Sidney is carrying a small bag of maple soaked donut holes and Geno has a small styrofoam container with a slice of maple pecan pie for later. In the car Geno leans back more than usual, grinning and Sidney laughs at him. “Me too. God, I ate so much.” Geno nods emphatically.  “Best day.” Sidney nods because it really is. *cries softly*71tenseventeenfanfictionsidgenorpfpittsburgh penguinsbacknext&amp;.wisteria theme by seyche
