twenty sidescosie; 37; bisexual; non-binary; super into the untamed right now but always into hockeyhomeaskarchiveao3viewing posts filed under #aboutcoffhweeFriday, July 03, 2020 with 2,113 notescoffhweeNo matter how much time has passed, if you see him again, I hope you will give him a hug and tell him: you’re really great. The justice and sincerity that you protected with your all wasn’t for nothing. You don’t have to walk around in the darkness anymore, because you have the most “dazzling” presence of all. - taken from Xiao Zhan’s essay about wwx *clutches chest*xiao zhanaboutwei wuxianthe untamedSource:coffhweeweiwuxian-lanzhanMonday, June 29, 2020 with 353 notescan you notjiang chengaboutwei wuxianthe untamedSource:weiwuxian-lanzhanrinkratsWednesday, May 27, 2020 with 160 notesrinkratsThere are a lot of different attributes that make a great hockey player.Everyone likes to talk about the fastest player, or the one with the hardest shot.But as a goalie, those guys are a little bit easier to read — a bit more predictable. When the speedy winger gets the puck, you know he’s looking to burn a defenseman down the boards. When the hammer-shot gets the puck at the point, you know to square up and get big. Those guys are tough to handle, for sure, but like I said, they’re just that bit more predictable than the players who actually keep goalies up at night.The nightmare-inducing guys, those are the ones who — how do I put this? — just find a way to put the puck in the net when I thought, absolutely, that I had that corner covered.Those guys are the ones you can’t prepare for, really.Those guys are — without a doubt — the best goal scorers in the world.And I’m going to give you the five that I hate playing against the most, in no particular order.Sidney CrosbyWhat can I even say about Sid that hasn’t been said?All I can do is show him embarrassing me.I mean, the guy is basically being hacked down by our defensemen there and he somehow has the balance to stay on his feet and then ring one past me. The funny thing is (because all you can do is laugh), I’m from Pittsburgh. I grew up watching Sid play. And even when you think you’ve seen it all from him, he goes and one-ups himself.Seeing him in his element like that and actually playing against him, it almost makes it even harder to describe why he’s so good.It’s not really a good answer if I just tell you he’s good at everything — but he is. He can score any type of goal he wants, and he’s got the best backhander in the league, which is probably the worst thing you can read on a scouting report as a goalie. When he can just move the puck to his backhand and have just as much speed as on his forehand, it’s like having to defend against two players at once.There’s an element of his game in all of the players I just mentioned. Every part of a pure goal scorer that you can think of, Sid has it. I’ve played against him quite a few times, and he’s scored some really impressive goals against me. Each time, when I watch it back on the highlights, you can see that Sid knows he’s going to score five seconds before the puck goes. He gets this movement about him, where he just gets into that zone — you’re not taking the puck off his stick because he’s putting it into the back of the net.When you look at his stats over the years you can kind of see where the media started writing about his lack of goal scoring … and then he just goes and shows what he can do when he focuses on scoring.He can do it all. And he knows when to show it.-Elite 101: Goal Scorers by John Gibsonjohn gibsonanaheim ducksaboutsidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsSource:rinkratsrinkratsTuesday, May 12, 2020 with 185 notesrinkratsA: I was talking to Sid a month ago, and I was saying to him, ‘Buddy, get your rollerblades out. You gotta start rollerblading’.Q: Oh no. You’re the one that got him in trouble!A: Did he get in trouble for rollerblading?!Q: Yeah, was that your fault? (laughs) There was a rumour that Sid went to an area high school to blade around the grounds, and was asked to leave. He got busted!A: Oh, I did that with my son too. We went for a rollerblade up on the Chartiers Valley school area. But no one was there (laughs). No one saw us…Q: Chartiers Valley cops are a little bit more chill. You don’t have to worry about the Sewickley security guards or whatever he’s dealing with up there.A: Yeah, exactly (laughs). I’ve seen Ekholm in Nashville rollerblading, pushing his kids in a stroller down the street. That’s what it is. It’s probably the closest thing to skating and staying in shape.Q: I know Evgeni has been doing that down in Miami. There’s been some guys there getting together and blading.…Q: I remember, I wanna say it was the series in San Jose, we actually are sitting next to each other in the auxiliary press box. And I start asking you about if you would go to the Cup Day for Sid. I think I told you about this story about Jordan Staal telling me that when Carolina won the Cup when Eric was on that team in ‘06, he sort of begrudgingly went to the Cup Day for Eric but he refused to even look at the thing. It was a point of contention about getting even a family picture with it because Jordan was like, ‘I wanna win it too’....We’re sitting there talking about, ‘Hey, when it happens, will you go?’ And you’re like, ‘Well, Sid’s one of my best friends. If I’m invited, yeah’. At that momen you were adamant, ‘I don’t think I’d do anything with the Cup’. Flash forward to the next training camp, I’m like, ‘So how was the Cup Day?’ Colby, please tell the audience what you told me because there are very few times in my life-A: (laughs) I don’t remember what I told you!Q: You told me about basically this bender of a day, this bender of two days with the Cup with Sid. There’s like a parade. And you’re like, ‘Oh my god, Ross. I- I don’t think I was right for the next month. I drank so much’.And I’m like, ‘Well, I know you can drink…’ And you’re like, ‘No! You have no idea how much we drank.’ And you start telling me- it was like seeing somebody recall a night, pulling out the receipts out of their pocket. You’re like, ‘Well there was a parade… and then there was something in his house… and then I don’t know if there was a lake… There might have been a lake? I don’t know’.A: You’re exaggerating it a bit, but yeah, it was-Q: Not much!A: No, not much for me (laughs). I gotta say when you’re around the Stanley Cup, the feeling or the excitement that goes with it just to see it… I’ve never seen a Stanley Cup presentation with my own eyes. It’s like going and watching, you’re a kid and get to watch Crosby for the first time.Seeing these things for the first time, to be around the Penguins and their back-to-back Cups just recently and be able to see the Stanley Cup presented with your own eyes, and be in the building and getting to see the whole melee kind of play out of the Penguins winning, it was just something else. I don’t know. It’s just something the Cup does when it’s at a party or you’re around it, that makes you feel like a kid. It’s just a really exciting thing. I was pretty lucky to be around those things, and of course back in Halifax, the people are awesome there. You feel like you know everyone when you meet them for the first time.So it was a very comfortable, awesome place to be and experience one of the greats of the game in one of those great moments in his hometown, and see that and feel it. And his good junior buddies were around. They’re just great guys to hang around. We had a really good time. It was a blast.I was kind of apprehensive as you mentioned, same as Staalsy’s comments. I know I was out of the game but it’s still just kinda weird being around it after someone else wins it.…A: It’s like watching The Last Dance and seeing all the guys with their clothes and their suits, and their pants that are huge.Q: How would Kris Letang have survived in the ‘90s with baggy clothing? He would have been apoplectic. (laughs)So Colby, you know the guy better than anybody that I know. Tell me about the Sidney Crosby that you know that none of us, even if we’ve known him for years in the capacity that we do know. Because I’ve always had the sense that it’s not that he’s putting on a show. Part of his Sid-ness is legitimate. But also I get the sense that the guy’s better at having fun than we realise too.A: Yeah, he’s great. I think it gets lost in, like, the human factor of him. You know, everyone’s, ‘Oh, he’s so classy. Handles himself so well’. And he does, and that’s just him though. If you hang out with him, if you talk to him, he’s a very thoughtful guy. He’s thoughtful of his teammates. He’s thoughtful of what guys can do, and what guy’s roles are. And he’s thoughtful of situations guys get put in, and how it’s a great opportunity for them. He thinks about all that stuff, and that’s kind of the cool thing to see.I think watching this Jordan documentary, it’s really neat to see kind of the competitive force Jordan was inside of his team, into individual players, and dragging people along with him. And to an extent, Sid’s the same way. He has that competitive drive, that competitive drive to win. And he has a way of pulling guys along. He has a way of pulling guys with him, whether it’s in practice day to day or in games.I got to experience and feel that when he was at a real, truly young age in the league. He did that. I wouldn’t say he was Jordan, like you see him going at guys in this documentary. (Sid’s) not like that, but he has a way about his competitiveness of pulling people along with him. Only certain players can really, truly do that. Great players can do that.At the same time, you see what Jordan said, he’s doing everything that he expects everyone else to do. He’s not cutting any corners. And Sid’s the same way. And you see the work that he puts in, you see the way that he takes care of himself. And it’s a driving factor, trust me, inside those rooms, to pull your weight and do the right thing. And he sets the tone in there.And just as far as being a guy and being around him, what you see is what you get. Just a thoughtful, good Halifax boy. He’s raised right. He’s got a big heart. He cares about people a lot. It’s been nice to stay in touch with him now.I say this all the time: sitting up in the press box post-career and getting to sit there every night and watch him play, him and Geno play, it’s unbelievable. That’s my job now… You can have those moments of watching him do something great. It’s a pretty good post-career gig for anybody (laughs). But to be able to watch one of the best players play this game night in and night out is a pretty good post-hockey gig.-Pen Ultimate podcast with Colby Armstrong, 12 May 2020colby armstrongaboutsidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsSource:rinkratsingravinoveritasTuesday, April 14, 2020 with 1,909 notesingravinoveritasMichael Sheen talking about David Tennant’s hips. (x)knightofthesevenfandomsSir. SIR.SIR.tiger-in-the-flightdeckHe sounds like he’s reading from some recently discovered journal on one of those In Their Own Words radio documentaries written by a confirmed bachelor in the 1919 looking back at his Uni days and reminiscing about all the hot men he romped around with. gegettethelibrarian@pearwaldorfi... ohmichael sheenaboutDavid TennantKevin BaconSource:ingravinoveritasehghtysevenMonday, April 06, 2020 with 929 notesehghtysevenI’m sign big deal here because I feel we can win every yeari love himevgeni malkinaboutsidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsSource:ehghtysevenrinkratsSaturday, April 04, 2020 with 230 notesrinkrats“Forever, Mario’s linked with Jagr... For you, it will be Geno” Part Iyessidney crosbyaboutevgeni malkinpittsburgh penguinsSource:youtu.besixappleseedsWednesday, April 01, 2020 with 135 notessixappleseedsoh sid…i love himzach aston-reeseaboutsidney crosbypittsburgh penguinsSource:sixappleseedspullthetriggersidneyTuesday, March 31, 2020 with 271 notespullthetriggersidneyObviously, I am missing the game. I’m missing a bunch of my teammates. Especially the guys I hang out with the most like Sid–we spent tons of time on the road, going to restaurants but we obviously miss the game. We miss what we love to do so can’t wait to see these guys back…in which kris letang, unprompted, admits his love for brandon tanev | 03.30.20:}kris letangaboutbrandon tanevpittsburgh penguinsSource:instagram.commaljicThursday, February 27, 2020 with 258 notesmaljicGeno’s new #1 fanyesalex corbisieroaboutevgeni malkinpittsburgh penguinsSource:maljicbacknext&amp;.wisteria theme by seyche
