twenty sidescosie; 37; bisexual; non-binary; super into the untamed right now but always into hockeyhomeaskarchiveao3ohsehunsSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 180 notesohsehunsTale of the Nine Tailed | Nine-tailed fox Lee Yeonlee yeontale of the nine tailedSource:ohsehunslinglynzSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 2,825 noteslinglynzThe Untamed || Siblingsnie huaisangnie mingjuelan xichenlan wangjiwen ningwen qingjiang yanliwei wuxianjiang chengthe untamedSource:linglynzweaver-zSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 46,881 notesweaver-zLSDKJFLSDJFLSDFNMweaver-zOkay but ngl I feel this unironicallyjust-fic-me-upThis is so real and honestly some people I know could stand to read itqueen-weirdMy mom needs to see this Source:weaver-zaccio-victuuriSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 151 notesaccio-victuurixiao zhanSource:accio-victuurisosuperawesomeSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 9,162 notessosuperawesomeHoneycomb / Pumpkin CeramicsFira Workshop on Etsy Source:sosuperawesomehoseochSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 98,864 noteshoseoch“what are you gonna do, cry about it?” yes . the fuckSource:hoseochtend-to-your-own-knittingSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 10,360 notesLet me tell you a storytend-to-your-own-knittingI’ve always loved reading. But when I was a kid, I really loved reading.I remember in third grade my best friend smuggled a copy of Jurassic Park into school (long before it was a movie, long before anyone had heard of it) with the gory parts bookmarked. We passed it around at recess and before class, furtively reading with fascinated horror (”he had his intestines in his hands!”), hiding it whenever the teacher came by because we were just sure she would take it away if she knew.I remember a few months later sneaking, heart in my throat, from the children’s section of the library to the adult section, convinced I’d be kicked out if they caught me. (Nobody cared, but I was eight. What did I know?) I remember finding a copy of Jurassic Park, remembering the gory scenes, and sitting down to read the whole thing. It wasn’t great literature, I knew that. But it was the first adult book I ever read, and to me, it was magic. Words like paradigm and fractal seemed to open a vast and dizzying world I’d never even imagined.Later there was Stephen King, who taught me about eye-watering fear and desperate courage and what it means to fight monsters, to win, to lose. Robert Heinlein, who taught me about love in all its myriad configurations and about fearless joy in the universe, about trusting your own judgment rather than limiting yourself by preconceived notions. Jean M. Auel, with her lushly recreated world, teaching my 13-year-old self the mysteries of sex and pleasure right alongside the mysteries of herbal lore and flint knapping and prehistoric gods, all of it part of a fascinating human tapestry. Tolkien, showing me wonder and beauty I didn’t even have words for, that first magical summer when I was still young enough to believe that maybe he did find and translate Bilbo’s book, maybe it was all real.(And others, of course. Piers Anthony, who I dutifully read even while my stomach twisted in ways I didn’t know how to explain. Orson Scott Card, who broke my heart worse than any ex-lover possibly could.)But that’s not the story.This is the story: one year, for Christmas, my grandmother bought me a book. A collection of short stories, from an author she knew I liked.And she cut out a story.Literally. She took a straight razor, physically cut the third story out of the book, then taped it back together, wrapped it up, and put it under the tree.Naturally, like any red-blooded American youth, I hied my teenage ass to the library at the first opportunity, found the book, and read the forbidden story. It had a sex scene in it. An utterly unmemorable, boringly-tame sex scene.That was what my grandmother thought she needed to protect me from.I, who had wept with Ayla at the pain and brutality and desperate unfairness of her rape, then cried happy tears a book later when she found healing, I who fell in love with an immortal star traveler from Kentucky, who rejoiced to find that Andrew Libby did not die but was reborn as Libby Long, the person she was always meant to be, I who ached with Sam Gamgee when he thought Frodo was dead and memorized the songs of the elves, I who stood trembling in a sewer, helpless and afraid before an ancient evil and didn’t back down… I whose imagination had soared and plummeted, who had been shown so much that was real and important and beautiful and ugly and uncomfortable and true……I wasn’t considered mature enough to handle a mediocre scene of a man and a woman having brief, unexceptional sexual contact.I was angry. Outraged, even. Yes, it was nice to get a book at all, but it felt like someone handing you a ten dollar bill and then slapping you in the face; the nice aspect of the gift doesn’t take away the sting.This, perhaps, is why so much of the “anti” movement (and its accompanying ageism and infantilization of teenagers) is anathema to me. It feels like the modern rebirth of my grandmother’s well-meant but ultimately controlling and condescending behavior. Don’t read this. Don’t look at this. Don’t talk to that person. You’re too young. You’re too old. You can’t be trusted. I know what’s best for you.Oh, there’s a lot more to it. The abusive behavior. The lies. The sheer ignorance, and the arrogance with which it’s presented as truth. The complete lack of understanding of human nature. There’s a lot about antis that confounds and enrages me by turns, and I’m sure I’ll talk about all of it sooner or later.But to the kid I used to be, who snuck and lied and argued to be able to read things that were “too old,” “too scary,” “too adult,” who lied about kir age to be treated and respected as an equal in the early days of the internet, whose life was immeasurably enriched by things most parents probably wouldn’t let their kid read, that’s the core of it right there: telling people what they can and can’t read or write. Appointing yourself the judge of what is good and worthy. Deciding that because you don’t like something, nobody should have it.You don’t get to control other people like that.a-bagel-with-a-fedoraan adult with years upon years of experience and a deeper understanding of life and growing up than anyone so many decades younger could possibly have: tries to protect their underage grandchild from a world full of sex IN the most formative and impressionable time of their life, without knowing they’re already in that worlda literal little kid: this is censorship and abusivegreater-than-the-swordYeah that’s exactly what I was thinking. I’m supposed to be okay with kids reading sexually explicit content because of this? Absolutely not. doctorbluesmanreturnsSee, part of me agrees with that, but blanket bans on things don’t do anything except make people go underground with the entertainment they want to consume, so honestly the solution to a lot of this is to actually be involved with your child’s life and what they’re interested in. Obviously there’s some things that you don’t want them to be exposed to but a lot of these sorts of problems would be solved if rather than just having a total ban on anything untoward we explained WHY. I do think that books should have rating though, so that parents can know what their kids are getting and make sure to be more involved in those instances, some of the worst things I learned about humanity came from books that were too mature for me at the time.greater-than-the-swordI think I agree with most of what you’re saying. Of course I’m not pro-censorship. I’m very anti-censorship when it comes to adults making their own decisions. But, there are just some things kids shouldn’t read and kids also don’t have the right yet to make their own decisions so somebody has to make it for them. The grandmother did nothing wrong, though sadly she was too late.I do definitely support parents explaining their decisions to the extent that they can, however.tend-to-your-own-knittingY’all… y’all do realize this post wasn’t written by a “literal little kid,” right? I’m 37. I have a child of my own. And from the perspective of an adult, from the perspective of a parent, what my grandmother did was fucked up.Yes, it was absolutely censorship. And yes, it was condescending and controlling. Much like what y’all are doing here, much like what antis as a whole do, she made no effort to talk to me about difficult or “adult” topics, or understand where my intellectual and emotional maturity was to determine whether or not I could handle that content. (My mother and father, in contrast, kept open lines with communication with me at all times, actually talked to me about what I read and listened to what I had to say, and made judgment calls based on who I was as an individual rather than making a knee-jerk decision based solely on my age. This is why, even though they occasionally did restrict content from me, you’ll never hear me bitching about them this way.) No, instead she literally mutilated a book based on the premise of “sex is icky and you shouldn’t know anything about it.”No, children should not have the right to make any decision they want. However, as a child grows older, part of growing up is taking on increased responsibility for yourself. By the time you’re in middle school, you should be making a fair number of decisions for yourself. Including, yes, the decision to read a book that includes a tame, vanilla, brief and non-explicit sex scene, good lord.The fact that a sex scene existing at all is considered “explicit” and something that a kid needs to be protected from, and the fact that according to the tags y’all seem to think a brief sex scene is enough to make a book porn is… deeply worrying, y’all. Like… are you guys okay? Because that’s… that’s a really unhealthy and toxic relationship with the concept of sex, the idea that its mere existence is dirty and dangerous. Ultimately, though, I do find it darkly hilarious that right here in this very thread you’re doing the exact same things I’m describing. Barely out of childhood yourselves, never having met me, never having interacted with me, without even knowing which book I’m talking about, you have nevertheless decided that you know more about me, my life, my own experiences, and my family than I do. You have decided that your judgment of a thing that happened to me is more accurate than my own was. By proclaiming nonsense like “the grandmother did nothing wrong, though sadly she was too late,” you are deciding that you know better than I do what is/was good for me, what sort of things I am/was allowed to know and to think about. You are saying you are more qualified to make decisions for me than I am - not just me-then, but me-now. Do you understand how arrogant that is? How controlling? Do you have any self-awareness at all?…No. You probably don’t. And you’re probably going to continue mistreating people “for their own good,” because gods forbid, if you let people read what they want they might read something you disapprove of.mainecoon76OP is absolutely right.There’s also the insignificant little fact that access to disturbing material literally CANNOT BE CONTROLLED once the kid reaches a certain age. (Early puberty at the latest, when the kid in question uses their friend’s phone if you check on their own). Control and restrictions don’t get you far here. Do you know what does? Trust. And you don’t get that by censoring, controlling, and taking away the kid’s agency. Quite the contrary, in fact.I’m probably going to get branded as a Bad Mother ™, but recently, while chatting about fandom, my teenage daughter told me (and looked like she regretted it an instant later) that her favourite Anime series is R-rated. That’s well above her age range. She watches it with her friends.What am I supposed to do? Throw a fit and call her friends’ parents to tell them they suck? She didn’t seem disturbed by the content. She says she loves the series, as a whole, and she can deal with the unpleasant parts. So what I DID do was to say “good for you, hon, I’m glad you told me. Now, if you trusted me this far, will you also tell me if you find something genuinely disturbing?”, at which she gave me the side eye and said, “… uh, maybe.”The thing is that the real world is so much more disturbing than books and stories. Teens do have access to the news, they hear all about war, climate change, gruesome murder, natural and humanitarian catastrophes. Learning how to deal with it, and learning how to draw a line for what you want or don’t want to see, is a part of growing up. I won’t push that line for my kid, I won’t take her to see an R-rated movie. But if, like OP, she wiggles around the rules to makes her own experiences, I can accept that, and I can only ask that she trusts me (or another trustworthy adult) enough to find help if the experience becomes Too Much.seawitchkaraokePeople just really like to forget that children are people. They’re not all the same you can’t just say “no children can deal with this content” and be like yay problem solved. You have to actually engage with kids! Like. I read a ton of books as a kid, largely fantasy and lots of that was YA so I didn’t stumble across many sex scenes but one of those books had a girl literally standing in a pool of blood while chained so she couldn’t leave while people were being murdered in front of her by a cult of assassins who wanted to make her one of them.Fucked up right? That was a YA book bc it didn’t have sex and it was a teenage protagonist. And while it disturbed me, it didn’t give me nightmares and I could deal with it. In fact that bookseries was one of my absolute favourites for a long time.No the book that gave me jightmares was a book full of short, supposedly true stories about people fonding spiders and such in plants or their houses or growing under their skin. Those stories were supposed to be funny but they disturbed me so much and actually gave me nightmares which no “for adults” book had ever managed.So what should my parents have seen that coming and forbidden me from…. Stories about spiders in plants? Bit specific that. Especially since I was fine with the girl standing in a literal pool of blood. Different things give different people nightmares and kids are people and some stories that give adults nightmares are perfectly fine for most kids (isn’t that a common thing people say about Caroline?).You cannot protect your kids from everything. And by trying to forbid them from everything potentially harmful, based on their age, you’re going to protect them so hard they can’t breathe. They’re going to read what they want anyway but they’ll learn that they have to hide it from adults and if something does disturb them they will not trust adults and come to them for help and have a good discussion about the fact that no, those spiders don’t live here and they’re not gonna lay eggs under your skin, most of the stories in that book are probably made up don’t worry.Source:tend-to-your-own-knittinguntameddouyinSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 13 notesuntameddouyinChen Zhuoxuan douyin update - oct 09 2020chen zhuoxuanpowerblaisSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 51 notesbrock boeservancouver canucksSource:powerblaisghoulishgoaliesSaturday, October 10, 2020 with 762 notesghoulishgoalieshockey hell is forever!Source:ghoulishgoaliesnext&amp;.wisteria theme by seyche
