https://ideas.repec.org/f/pda790.html
Browse Econ Literature
More features
Sarah C.  Dahmann
Personal Details
Affiliation
(70%) Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research (MIAESR)Faculty of Business and EconomicsUniversity of Melbourne
(30%) Institute of Labor Economics (IZA)
Research output
Working papers
Articles
Citations

Working papers
Cited by:

Cited by:

Cited by:

Cited by:

Cited by:

Articles
More information
Statistics
Access
     and download statistics for all items
Co-authorship network on CollEc
NEP Fields
Corrections
All material on this site has been provided by the respective publishers and authors. You can help correct errors and omissions. For general information on how to correct material on RePEc, see these instructions.
To update listings or check citations waiting for approval, Sarah C.  Dahmann   should log into the RePEc Author Service.
To make corrections to the bibliographic information of a particular item, find the technical contact on the abstract page of that item. There, details are also given on how to add or correct references and citations.
To link different versions of the same work, where versions have a different title, use this form. Note that if the versions have a very similar title and are in the author's profile, the links will usually be created automatically.
Please note that most corrections can take a couple of weeks to filter through the various RePEc services.
More services and features
MyIDEAS
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
New papers by email
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Author registration
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Rankings
Various rankings of research in Economics & related fields
RePEc Genealogy
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
RePEc Biblio
Curated articles & papers on various economics topics
MPRA
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
EconAcademics
Blog aggregator for economics research
Plagiarism
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Job market papers
RePEc working paper series dedicated to the job market
Fantasy league
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Services from the StL Fed
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
About RePEc
RePEc home
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
Blog
News about RePEc
Help/FAQ
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc team
RePEc volunteers
Participating archives
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Privacy statement
Legal statement
Help us
Corrections
Found an error or omission?
Volunteers
Opportunities to help RePEc
Get papers listed
Have your research listed on RePEc
Open a RePEc archive
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Get RePEc data
Use data assembled by RePEc
