https://ideas.repec.org/corrections.html
Browse Econ Literature
More features
Correcting content on IDEAS and RePEc
If a record is wrong
Guiding principles
Jump to corrections relevant for authors, editors, publishers.
Corrections for authors
Some of my work is not listed in RePEc
Some of my work is listed on IDEAS, but the RePEc Author Service does not find it
If this does not help, the typical situation is that the publisher has violated the unicity principle of the handle (see guidelines above). IDEAS will still display it, but the RePEc Author Service does not tolerate such errors. Contact the publisher.
I have claimed an item in the RePEc Author Service, but there is no link to my profile from the abtract page
How can I link different versions of the same work?
How can I add citations to my work?
My work is not displayed correctly on RePEc
An unrelated author is listed on one of my abstract pages!
It can also happen that somebody erroneously attributed this work to oneself. Contact the author to get that fixed, or if that fails, the RePEc Author Service administrator.
Finally, it can happen, but rarely, that the publisher put in the wrong author RePEc short-id. Contact the publisher to get that fixed.
I am not listed on my institution's EDIRC page
If you did things right, it may take two days for your to show up.
Corrections for editors
I want to be listed as editor with my journal listing
I have stopped being editor, how I get my editorship removed?
My journal is not properly indexed
Corrections for publishers
I have indexed some works, but they are not showing up.
If nothing seems wrong, check that your data is actually visible. You can do this by visiting your RePEc archive with your web broser and check whether you can actually download the files (do not worry about syntax error messages). If you cannot get the files, fix the links.
Finally, remember that all files need to have extension .rdf, and that series or journal directories need to have six-letter names.
Our contact details have changed
More services and features
MyIDEAS
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
New papers by email
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Author registration
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Rankings
Various rankings of research in Economics & related fields
RePEc Genealogy
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
RePEc Biblio
Curated articles & papers on various economics topics
MPRA
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
EconAcademics
Blog aggregator for economics research
Plagiarism
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Job market papers
RePEc working paper series dedicated to the job market
Fantasy league
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Services from the StL Fed
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
About RePEc
RePEc home
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
Blog
News about RePEc
Help/FAQ
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc team
RePEc volunteers
Participating archives
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Privacy statement
Legal statement
Help us
Corrections
Found an error or omission?
Volunteers
Opportunities to help RePEc
Get papers listed
Have your research listed on RePEc
Open a RePEc archive
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Get RePEc data
Use data assembled by RePEc
