https://ideas.repec.org/cgi-bin/myideas.cgi#myibiblio1unassigned
Browse Econ Literature
More features
Authentication is required to proceed
If you do not know your RePEc Short-ID, look it up on your profile at EconPapers or IDEAS. You can also use this handy RePEc Short-ID lookup tool. A RePEc Short-ID is of the form pxxnnnn, where xx are two letters (usually the first two of your last name) and nnnn are up to four numbers. If you do not have an account with the RePEc Author Service yet, create one.
What is MyIDEAS?
As all this is saved on the IDEAS server, you can access it from anywhere. Once logged in, you can use MyIDEAS from almost every page on IDEAS, where you will be prompted to follow something or save an item to your account. Look for the MyIDEAS button just below the top bar.
NEW: you can now get weekly digests with the literature that has been added for your followed authors, JEL codes, serials, and keyword searches.
There is also a quick tutorial.
Note that you need to be registered on the RePEc Author Service to access MyIDEAS. Also, MyIDEAS uses a cookie that logs you out after an hour of inactivity. This is not a tracking cookie, though, so we are doing nothing mischievious with your web activity.
A final note about the difference between the RePEc Author Service and MyIDEAS: the purpose of the RePEc Author Service is to create a profile of your works, your citations and your affiliation. It then provides this information to various RePEc services, for example IDEAS, where you have a public profile. MyIDEAS allows you to follow the works of others (for example what authors you select have recently included in their RePEc Author Service profile), and the contents of your MyIDEAS account is not shared with anyone (except your bibliographic folder, if you want to). You do not need to be an author to use MyIDEAS.
MyIDEAS FAQ.
More services and features
MyIDEAS
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
New papers by email
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Author registration
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Rankings
Various rankings of research in Economics & related fields
RePEc Genealogy
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
RePEc Biblio
Curated articles & papers on various economics topics
MPRA
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
EconAcademics
Blog aggregator for economics research
Plagiarism
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Job market papers
RePEc working paper series dedicated to the job market
Fantasy league
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Services from the StL Fed
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
About RePEc
RePEc home
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
Blog
News about RePEc
Help/FAQ
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc team
RePEc volunteers
Participating archives
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Privacy statement
Legal statement
Help us
Corrections
Found an error or omission?
Volunteers
Opportunities to help RePEc
Get papers listed
Have your research listed on RePEc
Open a RePEc archive
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Get RePEc data
Use data assembled by RePEc
