https://ideas.repec.org/participate.html
Browse Econ Literature
More features
Participating in RePEc
To be listed in IDEAS, there are several options:
It should be noted that RePEc does not limit itself to working papers.
Articles, software components and books are also welcome, but they can only be indexed by the respective publishers, much like for working papers.
How do you set up your own RePEc archive?
If you find this easier, a set of templates to
cut and paste then fill with the relevant information is available.
Note that you may not want to build your archive from scratch. Some of your working papers may already have been catalogued
by volunteer. To see this, take a look at the list of working paper
series at IDEAS. If your institution is listed, see tips and tricks 
for RePEc archive maintainers on how to transfer them.
Here is a list of other RePEc services,
and the list of existing RePEc archives.


For those that have already opened a RePEc archive, 
tips and tricks are available.
Comments to Christian
Zimmermann
More services and features
MyIDEAS
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
New papers by email
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Author registration
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Rankings
Various rankings of research in Economics & related fields
RePEc Genealogy
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
RePEc Biblio
Curated articles & papers on various economics topics
MPRA
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
EconAcademics
Blog aggregator for economics research
Plagiarism
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Job market papers
RePEc working paper series dedicated to the job market
Fantasy league
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Services from the StL Fed
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
About RePEc
RePEc home
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
Blog
News about RePEc
Help/FAQ
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc team
RePEc volunteers
Participating archives
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Privacy statement
Legal statement
Help us
Corrections
Found an error or omission?
Volunteers
Opportunities to help RePEc
Get papers listed
Have your research listed on RePEc
Open a RePEc archive
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Get RePEc data
Use data assembled by RePEc
