https://ideas.repec.org/getdata.html
Browse Econ Literature
More features
RePEc: getting the metadata
Note that the archives participating in RePEc as well as the people volunteering with RePEc do so with the understanding that the collected data will be put to good use. This does not include commercial use. If you want to use RePEc data for commercial use, please first contact RePEc. Typically, we would require substantial contributions of data to RePEc for a commercial use to have a chance of being tolerated.
Principles
Anybody interested in handling RePEc metadata should familiarize oneself with the Guilford Protocol, which defines how the datafiles can be found and are structures, and the ReDIF format, which defines the metadata fields and conventions.
Publisher data
One can also access the all the data in one place. There is, however, no guarantee that this is accurate or up-to-date. Only the publisher archives can guarantee that:
Person data
Any additional person data is subject to privacy requirements.
Citation data
Ranking data
Other data
The data output from the CollEc project is here.
We link different versions of the same work to each other. The database with those links is found here.
Handles are supposed to be permanent, but sometimes series or journals move to a different archives. To translate the handles, you want to use this.
The EconPapers syntax checker reports on syntax errors and warnings for ReDIF templates. It does also URL checks for all links in the templates, look for results by archive in the files starting with "url_" in this directory.
There is more compiled data, but it may not be available because it has never been requested.
API
More services and features
MyIDEAS
Follow serials, authors, keywords & more
New papers by email
Subscribe to new additions to RePEc
Author registration
Public profiles for Economics researchers
Rankings
Various rankings of research in Economics & related fields
RePEc Genealogy
Who was a student of whom, using RePEc
RePEc Biblio
Curated articles & papers on various economics topics
MPRA
Upload your paper to be listed on RePEc and IDEAS
EconAcademics
Blog aggregator for economics research
Plagiarism
Cases of plagiarism in Economics
Job market papers
RePEc working paper series dedicated to the job market
Fantasy league
Pretend you are at the helm of an economics department
Services from the StL Fed
Data, research, apps & more from the St. Louis Fed
About RePEc
RePEc home
Initiative for open bibliographies in Economics
Blog
News about RePEc
Help/FAQ
Questions about IDEAS and RePEc
RePEc team
RePEc volunteers
Participating archives
Publishers indexing in RePEc
Privacy statement
Legal statement
Help us
Corrections
Found an error or omission?
Volunteers
Opportunities to help RePEc
Get papers listed
Have your research listed on RePEc
Open a RePEc archive
Have your institution's/publisher's output listed on RePEc
Get RePEc data
Use data assembled by RePEc
