DAMAGE FOR BUILDINGS 
OF DIFFERENT TYPE.
During the 
earthquake of 4.02.1868 
in Tashkent some buildings of local materials were 
turned over.
During the 
earthquake of 4.04.1868 in Tashkent there were 
damages of buildings (corners fell down) and collapse of walls of loam-houses. 
There were killed and wounded peoples.
During the 
earthquake of 29.11.1886 in Tashkent there were collapsed 7 buildings. The 
Russian part of the city was more destroyed than Asian. Buildings in the Russian 
part of the city were mostly from adobe bricks with the height, bays and steps 
of walls exceeding the mentioned 
sizes of Asian part of the city. Asian buildings were loam-houses (“pakhsa’ 
type) with wooden frames and adobe filler (‘synch’ type).
During the 
earthquake of 1966 adobe buildings got much more damages in both quantity and in 
intensity. Before the earthquake the residential fund of Tashkent enumerated 7.2 
mln 
m2. As a result of the earthquake more than 
35,000 
of local construction were collapsed and it was 2.8 mln m2. 
There were no cases of destruction of buildings of modern construction.
During 
Nazarbek earthquake of 11.12.1980 
in Tashkent fully collapsed buildings both of local and modem construction were 
not found.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DAMAGES 
ON EACH TYPE OF BUILDINGS.
Typical 
damages of the buildings of local construction were: 
separation of longitudinal walls from the cross ones, 
full collapse of the walls not loaded with ceilings, collapse of corners of the 
buildings, lamination of brick walls, collapse of pins, collapse of brick 
setting in the places of 
joining buildings of different height, diagonal and 
horizontal cracks of walls. Multistorey buildings in Tashkent were presented by 
10-12 4-storey 
buildings, 
built in 40-50-th with wooden ceilings without aseismic 
measures. Those buildings 
were within 8-ball zone of Tashkent. Typical damages of those buildings were: 
 diagonal   
and horizontal cracks in single piered elements. X-type cracks in brick setting   
between apertures, diagonal and horizontal cracks in staircases. Actually all   
the buildings were restored. Residential inultistorey buildings were presented   
by brick buildings of series 1-310 and 1-310 I. In the project the buildings   
have simple   
rectangular plan scheme with uniform and symmetrical placing of capital walls 
and consist of settle butt ordinary sections. The height -4-5 floors. Cross walls are bearing 
with step 6.0 and 2.8 m. Strip foundations under the walls are of two 
versions. Monolith of rubble-concrete and prefabricated pillow block. The 
foundations of terraces - monolith concrete, column (concrete M-100). For pinth 
and walls according to the project brick setting of I category. Join of outward 
and inner walls and also parts of walls, weakened by canals, are reinforced by 
horizontal net reinforcing. Separating diaphragm - prefabricated reinforced 
concrete. Diaphragm floor are from round-hollow panels and reinforced concrete 
belts.
To the most 
frequent serious damages found on buildings situated in the epicentral zone, 
may be referred diagonal and cross cracks in single 
piered elements and walls; cracks in junctions of ceilings with walls and 
between walls, cracks in the places of reinforced concrete ceilings resting, 
opening junctions between slabs of ceilings.
Thus, during  
Tashkent earthquake major damaged were only those 8 - ball designed buildings of  
1-310 I, which were situated in epicentral zone, that is subjected to seismic  
loads close to designed. 
Frame 
residential buildings in Tashkent for the moment of the earthquake 
have not been built yet. Though it is necessary to point out that frame public 
buildings situated in the epicenter zone had minor damages. The damages were 
found only in bearing structures and separation walls. There were diagonal 
cracks in brick surrounding structures and separation walls, 
crack along the contour of filling, tearing walls away from frames. There were 
more damages in upper storeys.
Large panel 
buildings of TDSK and 1 
Uz-500 series in the result of Tashkent earthquake were not tested on seismic 
load because the earthquake intensity in the region of their dislocation did not 
exceed 6 balls while designed basic earthquake was 6 balls. 
Observed hair cracks in panels and junctions are similar to contraction or 
temperature-exploitation ones. That is why behaviour of large panel buildings is 
not described here.
Data    
source (Country report)   
1.       
Name: NURTAEV Bakhtiar    
2.         
Organization: Institute of Geology and Geophysics, Academy of Sciences of Uzbekistan    
3.      
Course:  
1998 Sm   
4.       
Title: 
