     Skip to Main Content
                                Profile
                    javaink    
                    Grant Access
                    Subscribe
                    Track Account
                    Private Message
                        Gift Paid Account
            i might know what to do someday.
            but not today
      Free AccountCreated on 2015-08-24 19:38:44 (#2437178), last updated 2017-09-21 (159 weeks ago)3 comments received, 5 comments posted  26 Journal Entries, 32 Tags, 1 Memory, 12 Icons UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:javainkBirthdate:Oct 22  
                 Mini Bio
                Hi! I'm javaink, or rather java.inkI have no idea what I'm doing here. So far, there is no purpose for my dreamwidth except to just hang out, read, and possibly make some friends. Oh and if I work up the courage, I might post some of my own writings. If they ever get finished. Or show some semblance of going places. I have posted some of my stuff on Fanfiction.net account, but all of them are pretty old and kinda fill me with eternal embarrassment. So anyway:Female. Cis. Hufflepuff. Complete introvert and extremely shy/reserved in person.  The only books I find myself periodically rereading are Sophocles' Theban Plays and Howl's Moving Castle. I also rewatch Starkid's "Twisted" a lot when I'm in the mood for Starkid, though I love their other plays as well. I just love Starkid. My 8tracks account - which I adore - is ".javaink."My main fandoms: {[ATLA and LoK; Homestuck; Dangan Ronpa]} Harry PotterWorks I'm trudging through: Kuragehime, One Piece, Hirunaka no Ryuusei, Hyouka!, Sailor Moon, Teen Wolf; Mass Effect (IM LATE I KNOW); Batman comicsShips that take a toll on my life: TAANG, Tahnorra, DaveJade; {everyone from Danganronpa takes a toll on my life, honestly}{and Ophelia. never forget Ophelia}Last thing: I have MAJOR pride in my House, Hufflepuff. 
                 Connect
                Interests (36):
            avatar: the last airbender, batman comics, brooklyn nine nine, community, dangan ronpa, danganronpa, dc comics, dragon age, harry potter, homer, homestuck, howl's moving castle, hufflepuff, jane the virgin, kill la kill, kuragehime, mass effect, matt and kim, night vale, panic! at the disco, parks and recreation, plants, queso, sailor moon, sims 2, sims 4, starkid, succulents, taz, the adventure zone, the flash, the iliad, the legend of korra, the santa clarita diet, the theban plays, writing
                 People
                [View Entries]
                    Mutual Access (0)
                    Also Gives Access To (1):
             therentyoupay 
                    Also Has Access From (0)
                    Mutual Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscriptions (2):
             jodeliejodelie, therentyoupay 
                    Other Subscribers (0)
                 Communities
                [View entries]
                    Member Of (0)
                    Subscriptions (6):
             duelnoir, dw_maintenance, dw_news, easystreet, insomniatic, smallbatchicons 
                    Administrator Of (0)
                 Feeds
                [View Entries]
                    Subscriptions (0)
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
