            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing jimmickwatersmith's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    Bingo Bangosugar in the gas tank* BREAKPACK
                inner -->
* BREAKPACKMar. 9th, 2008 01:09 am
jimmickwatersmithThe long and short of it is that I'm moving to Chicago because I feel like it. I need some extra money. At the same time, I need to lessen the amount of stuff I have. It's hard, but I'm putting all shame to rest for the month of February. This coming month will be all about increasing income and decreasing property. This is where you come in.I'm making personalized MYSTERY BOXES for you if you want one. These boxes are for my friends and well-wishers and they've got a huge question mark on them. Now, I love giving gifts to my friends and hate taking money from them. So needing money and having a lot to give puts me in an awkward situation. Which is why what I'm saying is a MYSTERY BOX is practically a gift and the money you pay for it is instant karma and vice versa. Listen, it's a MYSTERY BOX, and what's inside the box is stuff I think you'd appreciate, you being you, not stuff I'm aiming to get rid of. And you know what, I don't want to insult you, so if I can't find what's right, I can't sell you a MYSTERY BOX. If it comes down to it, I might even buy something to put in the MYSTERY BOX, something I think you'd like or should have. I hope I don't have to, but I will. There are two types of boxes. One's got at least $50 worth of presents within and you can give me $30 for it. And the other's got at least $75 and I'll take an even $50. You're guaranteed to get one movie you most likely don't own, one CD same deal...All told, I made around $300 in MYSTERY BOX sales. I think some people still owe me money.I live in Chicago now, for as long as I can. I haven't gotten a job yet. But I've only been here one week, so I guess there's time. Except for I'm starting already to feel the hurt. I'm supposed to have a job lined up at the Best Buy here. I've called them twice with no response.  I don't particularly feel like trying to find a job elsewhere, unless this Best Buy pays me shit. I guess they have the same position available at the one I want to work at. I was Senior of the Media department, that's right. I reckon I can get by on what I made at the store in NY. I just need to get employed here in order to make money, obviously.But other than that, what a smooth transition it's been. My place is really nice and I'll probably take pictures of it soon. Today I took great strides in making it look nice because I assembled the furniture I got from Ikea yesterday. I finally got all my DVDs out of the boxes and onto a shelf, which makes me feel at home. I don't have a DVD player, go figure, but I can watch them anyhow on my computer.Today I ate a hamburger at a place called Kuma's Corner. The waitress looked like Juno and she had the same spunk. I think she liked me.  Kuma's Corner is really good for burgers. All in all, the food is great here.My neighborhood where I live is called Andersonville. There's plenty to do here, see for yourself. It's probably about 40 minutes by train north of the Chicago Loop, where all the buildings are. But that's the way it is here. I like it a lot so far.My friend Gena has been helping me a lot. I don't think I'd be able to handle this without her.I drove here, from NY, with all my stuff in my car, and it was fucking hell. Pennsylvania had snow all over it, to the point where you couldn't see anything, including the lines and dividers, for about 10 hours. There was a plow whose claw was sparking up something terrible, and I was stoned too, so it living nightmare. At one point there was a car facing traffic, having spun out, righting itself with a u-turn at like three o'clock in the morning for god's sake. I'm glad that's over. I really am.I've only got two more boxes of stuff to unpack. It's my books and my other stuff. I've got to get more furniture, including a computer desk; I'm sitting on the floor as I type this. A laptop would be cool, but hey.Wish me luck. If you need me, I'll be in Chicago.
1 comment
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
no subjectDate:  2008-03-09 02:31 pm (UTC)
From: coffeewhore.livejournal.com
I've always wanted to go to Chicago. I have also always wanted to pick up and start fresh somewhere else, but i'm a big chicken so here I still am (well and i guess the whole married thing means now both of us should want to move so whatever)....good luck!
Link
Reply
1 comment
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
                    inner -->
Profile
jimmickwatersmith
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
January 2016
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
     12
3456789
10111213141516
17181920212223
24252627 282930
31      
Most Popular Tags
wrong numbers - 1 use
z - 1 use
Page Summary
coffeewhore.livejournal.com - (no subject)
Style Credit
Style: Neutral Good for Practicality by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:28 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
