 bean writer 
 bias kim seokjin
 incoming trashed
 wips 100+
 album count 200+
›  bean ›  writer ›  navi ›    latest: mcd*ckin 
One leaf left clinging
youngblood | jungkook | m
snippet: “I don’t care if he’s got the potential to be the next big thing. I’m done trying to chase a story that doesn’t exist. The kid is a wet leaf left on the curb to dry and crumble into pieces the next day. You’re going to send me to five of his concerts and I can already tell you how each one is going to go. He’s a wannabe bad boy who jizzes his pants when he sees a girl looking at him. Assign me someone else.”pairing: jungkook x female readergenre: smut, e2lau: rock star jungkook, journalist readerrating: explicitword count: 14.6kwarnings: mentions of tabloids, mentions of jk being a player, y/n hates jk’s guts, mentions of sexual behavior with multiple people, jk has tattoossexual warnings: unprotected sex, marking, biting, jk has a monster schlong, choking, jk comes on reader, dirty talk, slight praise kink, jk immediately falls asleep after sex lol, no aftercare, nipple play, auralism, hair pulling, kinda hate fucking, slight body worship, pussy slapping, spanking, jk turns into a whiney mess when y/n tops, reader chokes jk during sex while she tops him, uhhhhh jk calls y/n a bitch during sex??? idk it just happened, other members talk about wanting to fuck y/n and she hears thema/n: hey everyone thanks so much for waiting for this fic! some areas didn’t get that much needed editing tlc but I hope you still enjoy! a/n2 9/12/20: hello everyone! in celebration of youngblood hitting over 2k notes i wanted to celebrate by giving it a new banner! @dee-ehn​ did an amazing job with this banner and i couldn’t be happier to have her help me celebrate this milestone :) thank you so much danica! thank you to everyone who has read this fic, left comments, and spread the love. it all means more to me than i could ever explainEverything you have ever worked for comes down to this.Today is the day your boss is handing out the big assignments. As a journalist, you’re constantly fighting for the best stories, wanting ever so desperately for that one piece to start churning out those inspirational juices until they’re overflowing. Longing for that feeling where your fingers start to cramp from typing too much but you just can’t stop.You couldn’t get dressed fast enough.You have no clue what stories will be on the table to be assigned, but you have heard whispers in the hallways at work the past few days that one of those stories involves the president of the United States. You shiver with glee just thinking about it.After gathering all of your papers and shoving them into your briefcase, you grab your car keys and practically skip out of your house, but you manage to swallow the urge away. You must maintain your professional appearance. Skipping just won’t cut it.The reason you’re in such a good mood for today (despite it being big assignment day) is that you’re almost positive your boss is going to give you the good piece, the mother of all stories, the silver platter of all newsworthy gossip. Your stories have increased company views, you’ve come up with several new ideas to help keep the physical and online newsletters going, and you’ve been bringing in tasty treats every Friday for the past month. The big boss man has been nothing but cheery towards you, which is a rare sight on its own, but to have him in a good mood for this long? Good things are ahead, good things are ahead indeed.Before you even walk into work, you can hear the chaos from outside the brick building. The ground level is where most interns barricade themselves, hiding from the ever ringing phones. You hate walking through the ground level on Monday mornings especially because everyone is running around trying to catch up from their weekend break, but there’s no other way to get to the elevator. You skootch around a couple interns desperately leafing through a stack of papers piled high on a desk. Sweat pools thickly from their brows, their concentration unnerving as they fight through their exhaustion. Phones are ringing loudly everywhere and any onlooking stranger might think this was the Wall Street of journalism. You clutch your coffee tighter in your hand, keeping your head down, and pressing the fourth floor button on the elevator rapidly once you make it there safely.When you reach your floor, the energy is popping in a less chaotic ‘I’m about to die’ way. Your coworkers are laughing more than usual, the air in the room feels lighter and you feel your shoulders straighten and relax as you walk through the corridors. Everyone always gets excited for assignment day. Too bad that excitement won’t last long for some people.You set down your briefcase on your desk, unclasp it, and take out your files, sighing as you let them fall onto the desk in complete disarray. They’re more practice assignments really. In case one of your priorities falls through. They aren’t exciting, to put it delicately. Little pieces here and there about dietary tricks, advice columns, and a dash of horoscope and dating advice. The horoscopes can be kinda fun, but it’s hard not to sound repetitive or biased and the advice columns are tough when you know that you’re just putting what you would do out there. In a way, it feels slightly invasive.As you look around your office, the excited glee starts to leave your body. You’ve dedicated the past five years to your work…and it shows. All of your coworkers have photos of family members, vacation photos, hell they even have potted plants on their desks. From the kid drawings to the little knick knacks, all you have in your office is books lined alphabetically on the shelf by the window and stories you’ve won awards on hung up in frames. All of these items have been collecting dust for months and some of your books even have sun damage.You shake your head quickly as you sit down and power on your desktop computer. No use letting jealous feelings take over. Today is your day and all your hard work will pay off once you get this assignment.Maybe you’ll go on a cruise afterwards.Your fingers have only just begun to cramp when the office receptionist calls everyone to the meeting room through the fancy conference button on everyone’s phones. You lean back in your chair and take a deep breath, blowing a piece of your hair out of your face as you do so. This is it. This is your moment.Heading out of your office, you make a sharp left and join your other nine coworkers at the table, looking eagerly ahead at the very covered, not mysterious at all, white board. Everyone’s names are paired with a story under that thin sheet. The suspense is already killing you and you’ve only just walked in.You choose a spot in the middle on the left side next to the coworkers you can actually stand strictly or extra moral support.Taehyung has his hands clasped tightly together, resting on top of the glass table surface. His knee bounces up and down frantically, the tie wrapped around his throat looking too tight as he fidgets in his seat.You nudge him as you sit down, disrupting his trance. “Hey. Nervous?”He chuckles lightly, the natural glint in his eyes accessorizing the bags under his eyes nicely. “Is it obvious?” He moves his hands from the table and onto his lap, trying extra hard not to fidget.“Don’t worry,” you reassure him as you make yourself comfortable, setting your pen and notepad onto the table before leaning back in your chair. “Boss man loves you. And for good reason. You’re very talented at what you do.”“Yeah talented at making the most boring stories seem somewhat appealing,” he mutters cynically under his breath.Turning to Taehyung, you grasp his hands tightly in your own, shocking him a bit with the sudden skin to skin contact. “Don’t you see? That takes talent! You make stories on math patterns fun! You’re the one who made Minhyuk crack a smile while editing your story on dying dialects and how to revive them.”Taehyung chuckles again at this, nodding his head slowly. “Okay, yeah, that one was pretty funny.”“Don’t beat yourself up. I know the stories you get aren’t entertaining by society’s standards, but you make them entertaining. It takes a true writer to do that.” You let go of his hands right as your boss walks into the room, manila folders tucked tightly under his arm.“Alright team! Today’s the day!” His voice booms deep from his belly and several of your coworkers smile. Your boss gently sets the folders onto the table, correcting them until they’re perfectly symmetrical. “Before we get to the juicy stuff I wanted to go over a few policies-ah come on now!” He laughs as everyone in the room groans and the mere thought of company policy. “This is my best chance to get ya all to listen!”And listen you do. You lean forward excitedly as everyone around you tunes out. Scribbles fill in the lines of your notebook as you abbreviate from this to that, trying desperately to keep up with what your boss is saying. It’s true. The policies are boring. But you’d rather be dead than be re-lectured on something and end up failing. Some call you a know it all or an overachiever. You call it being prepared.“Thank you…y/n…for paying attention.” The room chuckles as you click your pen shut and insert it through the spirals of your notebook with a smile.“Now.” Your boss leans forward, his pointer finger teasingly tapping onto the files. “The time has come.”Everyone leans forward in anticipation. No one wants their name to be called first.Someone’s chair squeaks under the pressure of their weight.“Sowon.”“Oh god dammit!” Sowon throws her hands against her chair, her back slamming into the back of her seat before forcing herself to stand. Her shoulders hunch as she unwillingly accepts the file from your boss.“Your assignment is the upcoming weather epidemic. Which way is global warming leaning now!” He says with a serious tone but as soon as Sowon leaves the room, he lets himself laugh.“Numbers people…numbers are very important! So, keep up the good work so I don’t have to assign any of you weather eps.” Everyone nods and waits for him to continue.He continues to call out names, giving out unwanted assignments to your upset coworkers. Albeit upset, they each accept the assignment with dignity. One of the things you respect about your boss is that he’s undeniably fair. And each person who works under him knows it. The first week of the month he has everyone write a sample piece for the “big dog” story as he puts it. Him and the editing team go over the submissions and decide who’s story they’ll continue with. After that, everyone’s pieces are graded and that’s what determines who gets that star piece in the end. No matter how shitty your sample piece is one month, you get to try again the next.Deep down, you think you did outstanding with this months sample piece. But you also read Taehyung’s and he could easily get the prize story today. The thought makes you want to chew your fingernails until you don’t have any.“The final three.” Your boss smiles as you, Taehyung, and Jeongin anxiously twitch in your seats.“All three of you did great this month. Spectacular really. It was really hard to pick who gets the star piece. I’ll disclose it right now that this months top story is about a scandal regarding the president. And there’s proof, sweet, sweet proof, to back up the story. The other pieces are regarding an up and coming rock star, and the other is about a cancer kid creating a club at the local elementary school to raise cancer awareness.”All decent pieces, you think to yourself. Cancer kids always do well in the press. Rock stars….not really your cup of tea. You can almost hear him saying your name for the president story. You grip the edges of your chair tightly, so tight that your palms begin to burn.“Jeongin.” Your boss says factually and you can’t help but wonder if this is what it’s like to be at a rose ceremony on the Bachelor.Jeongin stands up and accepts the outstretched folder from the boss. He opens it and his eyes widen, one of his hands flying to his mouth.“You have been chosen for the president story. Get to work quickly. We’ll need this out asap.”Taehyung groans next to you but quickly covers his mouth as Jeongin exits the room.“Y/n.”Please be cancer kids. Please be cancer kids. Please be cancer kids.You stand up and straighten your work jacket, taking a deep breath as you stand before your boss.“Y/n. Your numbers have been outstanding this month, per usual.” He chuckles and you smile, clasping your hands neatly in front of your body as you try to keep them from shaking. “But you’ve become predictable.”“I’ve-I’m sorry. What?” Your eyebrows furrow deeply as you lean forward to make sure you heard him correctly.“You’re an outstanding journalist. But you write the same type of stories. Even when I give you different assignments, your writing stays the same. I want you to dig deeper, become more adaptable. And because of that-”No.“I’m assigning you-”No please.“The rock star piece.”It’s like the life physically drains from your body. Dizziness overtakes you and you start to wonder if this is some cruel prank. Or a nightmare.You feel your hand reach out and accept the file and you feel your legs start to move back and forth until you feel yourself sitting back in your office. Even while sitting in your chair, you have the file held out in the same position as when you accepted it. Your fingertips are numb.Shaking your head, you snap yourself out of it. Rock stars aren’t all that bad! Maybe it’s an old rock and roll guy, maybe one that hasn’t done an interview in a while. That wouldn’t be so bad!You drop the file on your desk and numbly open it. Your eyes quickly widen and you stand up so quickly that your chair hits the back wall abruptly. Marching out of your office, you head straight into the meeting room where your boss is still talking to Taehyung about his assignment. Taehyung, who is smiling widely, still has his fingers flicking through the papers in the file. Fucking cancer kids man.“-you’ll do great with this one-”“Assign me someone else.” You forcefully interrupt.“Excuse me?” Your boss turns to you, completely bewildered and forgetting all about Taehyung, who, by the way, is staring at you with his mouth wide open.“I said assign me to someone else. Anyone else,” you say through gritted teeth, throwing the file onto the table. All the papers spew from the folder, most of them fluttering to the ground. Taehyung quickly squats down to pick them up but you choose not to look at him. You hold your boss’s eyes, flames of furry flickering inside your pupils. In the back of your mind you know you’re behaving like a child. But everything rational is clouded by pure anger. There’s no sense in sensibility here.“Taehyung.” Your boss awkwardly clears his throat and motions towards the door. Taehyung nods quickly, stealing a worried glance at you as he closes the meeting room door behind him.“You.” Abruptly, your boss points a finger at you, the awkward and welcoming facade completely erased from his body. “Sit.” A vein has just sprouted in his forehead as his cheeks start to redden. You gulp loudly, but manage to hold onto your anger.You glare darkly at your boss as you sit down in one of the seats. He chooses to sit at the head of the table, taking a deep breath before looking at you again.“Y/n. What seems to be bothering you?” He’s trying his best to keep his tone calm and even. And yet his shoulders are raised almost to his ears and the redness hasn’t left his face yet.Taking in a deep breath, you try to match his levelness of calm and speak slowly, remembering that this is your boss you’re talking to…also known as the one who gives you money so you can pay your bills. “Assign me something else. Then there won’t be anything bothering me.”“We’ve been over this before, Y/n,” he groans and leans back in his chair. It squeaks in an ear splitting like manner that makes your eye twitch a little. “That’s not how the system works! I don’t see why you’re so worked up over this assignment. He’s an-”“An up and coming artist from a small town who sings about real world problems and takes advantage of any girl that bats their eyelashes his way? Yeah, I get it. But it’s the same trope every small town artist uses and the same problematic situation every artist like him gets into. “I don’t care if he’s got the potential to be the next big thing. I’m done trying to chase a story that doesn’t exist. The kid is a wet leaf left on the curb to dry and crumble into pieces the next day. You’re going to send me to five of his concerts and I can already tell you how each one is going to go. He’s a wannabe bad boy who jizzes his pants when he sees a girl looking at him. Assign me someone else.”“I’ll pay you double to do the story.”Your foot snags on the carpet and almost causes your chair to tip over. Your eyes widen quickly as you stumble to regain your composure."I’m sorry… what?”“You heard me right. I’ll pay you double! I don’t trust anyone else to do this story and frankly, I think this could be your big break into the social media platforms!”“No. You don’t understand. Even with the money I can’t interview him-”Your boss chuckles as he gathers his papers, leaving yours skewed over the room. He grasps the door knob and turns to you, a bright shiny smile plastered onto his face.“Go out there and get that Jungkook experience!”“Please! I’ll take the weather epidemic story! PLEASE!” It’s too late. He’s gone. And you’re stuck with this good for nothing story.The next day you try to bargain with Sowon to give her story to you. At first she was jumping up and down, screaming like a twelve year old girl on her way to a One Direction concert all because of Jeon fucking Jungkook. But then your boss walked in and promptly stopped the whole thing, confirming that there were no trading stories no matter the circumstances. Ever.Unmotivated, you sit at your desk with your palm cushioning your cheek as you stare at a blank word document. Normally you’d be outlining questions, what you need to research, all that jazz. But nothing professionally appropriate comes to mind.Unstealthily, Taehyung scoots his chair from his office right into yours, bumping into your desk as he does so, knocking over a picture of a dog you’ve fooled the office folks into thinking was yours.“Oof, sorry. Too much momentum,” he mutters and straightens himself out, maneuvering his chair so that he comes into your view from around your desktop.“Yeah they buffed the floors last night or whatever,” you sigh, your face sinking deeper into your palm, having no energy to pick up the fallen photo.Taehyung rests his elbow at the edge of your desk, watching you carefully before speaking. “Are you really going to pout about this assignment all week?” He doesn’t scoff so to say…but there’s definitely a scoff like undertone to his voice.You sit back in your chair and rub the bridge of your nose. “I know you’ve seen all the stories about him online. So can you really blame me?”“I guess not,” he agrees, “but I think you could use this as an opportunity. You can be the journalist that finally puts a stop to his scumbag ways.”“Maybe I don’t want to be that person,” you mumble and cross your arms over your chest. Stealing a glance at Taehyung, the seriousness is evident on his face. He’s always been your voice of reason, ever since the day you first; on your first day of work. Which also happened to be his first day of work..“I’m not making any promises,” you give up.Taehyung smiles nonetheless and begins to scoot out of your office.“I believe in you!”“Yeah, yeah, go write your stupid story.” You wave him out and stand up to shut the door before sitting back in your seat.Sighing heavily once again, you use Google to look up the recent stories written about your supposed new muse.Yep. Unsurprisingly, all the top stories are not ones you want to see.‘Another Groupie Comes Forward: How Jungkook Took Fan Service Too Far’‘Other Members of Youngblood Tired of Jeon Jungkook’s Attitude’‘Jeon Jungkook: Rock Star or Porn Star?’Groaning, you shut down your computer and get ready to leave. Images of the rock star float in your head and you hate how much his long sweaty hair and big doe eyes have entranced you.This has to be some sort of sick joke, you decide. Maybe Taehyung was making fun of your love life a little too loudly and your boss heard and was like, “Hey. I know how to get her laid!”You mentally block yourself, a little thrown off that you’re even thinking this way. You doubt your boss would assign you something purely to get you laid. That’s just ridiculous.Not that you want to get laid by Jeon Jungkook anyways, hah.Despite anger and uneasiness continuing to bubble up into your system, you head out the door to try to get some sleep at home. The first concert is tomorrow night.You arrive to the concert an hour early, getting access to the venue long before the doors open to the public. Perks of being a journalist on the job, you guess.The venue is cold. You can feel it through your very unprovocative outfit you have chosen to wear today. Even your neck is barely visible. A small notebook and mechanical pencil sit in your lap. Some questions have been scribbled down earlier but as of right now, you can’t think of much. The whole point of getting to the venue early is to survey the scenery and see if anything weird sticks out but honestly? You’re beyond bored. A few workers scurry across the stage as they set up the instruments. The sound technician shouts jargon commands into his microphone. From the looks of it, the band hasn’t done soundcheck yet and that causes some slight excitement tingling in your body. Which you promptly shut down of course.Low and behold, about fifteen minutes later you recognize the drummer and bass player appear on the stage. Their names are something you haven’t memorized yet. In your own defense, you’re here to interview the lead singer, not the entire band.The drummer is easy to pick out because of some sleek wooden drumsticks hanging out of his back pocket. He’s sporting some bright pastel pink hair with a very attractive undercut. His bangs hang forward in his face and you watch as his eyebrows furrow and his lips pout outward as he talks. Tattoos litter his biceps and forearms as his black t-shirt sleeves are rolled up. Your heart thumps deeply in your chest as you notice just how perfect his butt looks in those dark washed blue jeans-Heat flickers across your cheeks as you pull your mind out of the gutter. Promptly picking up your pencil, you doodle on a blank piece of paper to keep yourself from staring any longer. But then it dawns on you. You only looked at the stupidly attractive drummer. What does the bass player even look like?You begin to sneak a peek but stop yourself as you see none other than your supposed muse.Jeon Jungkook.He’s rolling his eyes in a ‘better than thou’ fashion as the drummer says something to Jungkook. His dark brown bangs are hanging down in his face, much like his other band mates, except Jungkook’s isn’t styled. He looks fresh out of the shower, the ends of his hair curling around his facial features. Gripping the microphone that’s sitting peacefully on its stand  you can see from out here the tattoos on his hands. Small scribbles, but tattoos nonetheless.“It appears we’ve got a creeper in the audience.” Playfully he clicks his tongue, the sound vibrating throughout the whole stadium, making his other band-mates flinch with the noise. They turn to look at him before directing their gaze at what he’s looking at: you.And just like that, you forget how to swallow. Or breathe for that matter. Is your heart even beating?“She’s a journalist. She’ll be here for the next few shows,” the sound technician, who seems more like a manager now, says dully. “She’s assigned to interview Jungkook after every show.”There’s a moment of what appears to be panic in Jungkook’s eyes as his band mates laugh and smack his shoulders. But the look quickly disappears as he makes eye contact with you. In place of fear, there’s sultriness and a hint of dramatic flare.“Hope you enjoy the show.”Was that- did he just- did he wink at you?Your teeth grind in your mouth and a low exhale escapes through your nostrils. So it’s going to be like that, huh? Maybe you should just focus on that obnoxiously cute drummer and make up the story as you go. Besides, you’ll be getting a private interview with Jungkook after every show. Do you really have to focus on him the entire concert? Or any part of the concert?Your work ethic integrity tells you yes. You have to pay at least most of your attention to him. But maybe you’ll allow yourself a few glances at sexy drummer boy. It’s not like he’ll be moving around much anyways.“Hey! Journalist lady!” Jungkook calls and laughs into the microphone. His band mates chuckle behind him.You raise one eyebrow as a response.“You have been to a concert before, right?”“Yeah? What about it?” You shout so they can hear you.“Then why are you dressed like you’re about to go to church?” His band mates behind him howl with laughter, upsettingly including the drummer who rests his hands on his knees as he doubles over with laughter. You look down at yourself and realize that what you thought would be for your own protection, has turned into a spotlight of mockery.“It’s laundry day!” You call out to him with as much of a matter of fact tone you can muster.“If it was truly laundry day,” he cocks his head to the side as his lips brush against the microphone. You hate how you notice how sexily his body moves as he pivots himself to conform to the microphone. Hate how you notice his eyebrow playfully shoots up and how his lips form his words slowly, “then you’d be naked.”You grip the edges of the armrest, your fingernails scraping against the wood as you clench your jaw. You already had this little pep talk with yourself as you drove here. You would not let this wannabe get into your head. This was going to happen, you knew it would. Time to put your hard mask on.“Hmmm. Barely even starting the concert and you’re already picturing me naked.” You pick up your notebook and start jotting down fake notes, watching from your peripheral how wide Jungkook’s eyes get.Mumbling something your ears don’t quite catch, Jungkook steps away from the microphone and huddles with his group.Pride swells within you as you realize you stumped the great ladies man Jeon Jungkook.The band mates separate and head to their formal stations. Sexy drummer man takes a seat behind his drums and starts to swirl the sticks in his hands while the other members pick up their perspective instruments.And the soundcheck begins.Unwillingly, you can’t help but admit to yourself that they’re actually pretty good. The instrumentals are clean and Jungkook’s voice sounds just how it does on the album recording. Only…better. You can hear the rawness of his tone, that low growl deep from the back of his throat. You find your head nodding in beat with the song, body swaying with the melodies.You’re not sure if it’s better that they don’t suck. Or worse.Soundcheck ends after they each test their individual mics and then, one by one, they leave the stage. Jungkook is last as he lingers around. You’re confused as you watch him observe the venue, checking out the higher levels all the way from left to right, taking in every inch that he possibly can.“Whatcha lookin’ at?” You call out, unable to stay curious for too long.He smiles at you softly, not a flirty one, a true, genuine smile.Then he mutters in a dreamlike trance, “I want to make sure I don’t miss anyone.”As more and more people (teenage girls mostly) start to filter into the room you decide to stand up and head to your actual seat upfront. Thankfully there’s no pit you have to stand in but unfortunately you will be in direct eyesight of Jungkook. The stage isn’t raised that high so he’ll just barely be towering over you. You wish they could have just given you one of the side balcony spots. That way you could see everything and they wouldn’t have to see you. Well, maybe the drummer could see you…Soon enough, the overpowering smell of Victoria’s Secret perfume suffocates your lungs. Eau de desperation seems to be tonight’s favorite. Girls around you fan themselves with their hands as they gush to each other over the newest photos that were leaked just the other day.Yeah, you scoff to yourself. Leaked purposefully maybe.As the night goes on you eventually stop watching the band, hoping that something eventful will happen. They play through their set list, talk to the crowd a bit, have a short intermission, then come back in new outfits. Yawn.Only because staring at your notebook became even more boring, you cross your arms and watch the concert. Watching Jungkook bounce around the stage and lean down into the crowd, grabbing girls hands and winking at them just makes you annoyed. Your foot stomps impatiently as you check your watch almost every minute, hoping that time will magically start flying by.Girls dance beside you in provocative clothes, shimmying their chests towards the stage.You’ve never felt more out of place.The rest of the concert flashes by and you catch yourself more than once bobbing your head to the beat of Youngblood’s music. Jungkook continuously teases the crowd before him with smizing eyes and winks to boot.And you swear, (every other girl is probably going home thinking this as well but you swear it’s not like that) Jungkook even winked at you near the end of the set list right before an erotic hip grind against his microphone stand.The fans went nuts, to say the least.Surprisingly, and quite impressively if you must say so yourself, it doesn’t take long for the arena to empty after the concert is over.The air feels and tastes stiff in the back of your throat, the aroma slipping in through your nostrils and all the way down into the pit of your stomach. You’re not exactly sure if you should sit there and wait until someone finds you or if you should bug one of the poor souls trying to work.Well, it’s not in your nature to just sit and wait.There’s a tall guard walking across the stage with some electrical cords in his arms, feeding the rope around and around his triceps as he walks and gathers more. He’s faintly humming a tune you don’t recognize and although he’s big and burly, there’s a softness to his face that deems him the most approachable of the people running around here.You gather your things and walk up to the edge of the stage and call out to him.“Hey there! You lost?” He smiles and pulls out an earphone that you hadn’t noticed from your seat.“My name is y/n and I have an interview scheduled with Jeon Jungkook. I’m just not sure where to meet him exactly.”The guard squints his eyes at you, sending a slight panic through your veins. Did you even bring your ID today? Or your work badge? Are you being mistaken for a f-…fangirl?You nearly gag at the thought and promptly dig through your bag to find that yes you did in fact bring both your ID and your work badge. After presenting it to the guard, he signals on his walkie for someone to verify the meeting.Clearance has been received and now he motions for you to follow him.It seems as though the guard can’t quite decide if he wants to strike up a conversation with you or to lead you in silence. He asked briefly about your work and when you answered, he didn’t respond. Several corridor turns later and he asks if you have any pets at home. Again, once you answer, it’s just silence.You just want to go home. Tiredness sets into your eyes and it takes every effort within yourself to keep from yawning as your feet drag against the tile flooring. The blinking of fluorescent lights above you doesn’t help what appears to be a gnawing headache forming in your left temple, and the eerie feeling of being in a dark corridor with a big weird stranger seems like a good reason to want to be tucked safe in bed too.“Right through there.” The guard gestures and you almost run straight into his back with how abrupt he stops. His arm extends towards Jungkook’s dressing room on the right side of the hall. His name is scribbled onto a tiny whiteboard with several lines underneath. In the corner of the whiteboard you chuckle as you read “is gay” in small fine print.You turn around to thank the guard but he’s already disappeared.You knock on the door three times, still chuckling as you try to imagine which member of the band wrote the funny note.Speculating interrupted, the door opens and there in front of your very eyes is the worlds up and coming rock star heartthrob.Okay, why is he a lot sexier up close.He has a small face cloth in his hand and he dabs it delicately along his neck and jawline, collecting each droplet of sweat left behind. Your mouth begins to feel rather parched as you watch his body perspire. And the thought of this tiny action making you slightly attracted to him leaves a bitter taste on your tongue.Jungkook hangs the cloth over his shoulder as he raises one arm up the door, cheekily raising his eyebrows at you as he smiles.“I knew you’d come looking for me.” He winks and kisses the air before stepping aside to let you in.Except you don’t walk in.You turn right around and start to walk back down the hallway, desperately trying to recall all the lefts and rights that got you here in the first place so you don’t get lost on your way to the exit.“Wait, wait, wait!” Jungkook alarms as he skids in front of you, hands outstretched in attempt to stop you from walking any further. You stare at him, unamused and unwilling to put forth the amount of energy that appears to be required when being in his presence.“It’s just a joke. No need to take it so serious.”You stare at him harder, your eyes now half lidded. “I’ll make sure to inform my boss that this assignment has been deemed a joke and not serious by the client. I’m sure he’ll be thrilled.” You pull out your cell phone and deep down you had no intentions of calling your boss. But you’re so pissed off you might as well call your home phone and pretend it’s your boss. You don’t get that far though because Jungkook has his hands on your shoulders and your eyes go wide as your body freezes in place.“I’m sorry,” he says sincerely. “I didn’t mean it like that. Please just come and sit down?” His head hangs kind of low and there’s a sense of pride growing within you knowing that you have this amount of control over him.Wordlessly, you turn on your heels, tuck your cell phone back into your pocket, and head into his dressing room. You faintly hear Jungkook let out a big sigh of relief.Once you’re both in the dressing room, you get a better chance to look around. The room is brightly lit with ceiling lights and lamp lights and the room itself is a lot bigger than what you imagined on the outside of the door. There’s a large mirror on one end, the type you see in old fashioned movies that’s tilted and has lights surrounding the border. You can probably see every imperfection, every blemish in that thing. Different types of makeup products are lined up on alongside the mirror and oddly enough, you don’t find it too humorous. In fact, you find it kind of endearing that Jungkook takes care in his appearance. The walls are painted a light mocha color and there’s a beige couch sitting against one of the walls. The room is surprisingly clean, but, then again, you remember that this is only their first night in the city. They’re spending a whole five days here so who knows if the room will even look the same on night five.You sit on the couch and flip to find a blank page in your notebook.“Alright,” you sigh, “let’s get this over with.” You click your pen and look up at him. Instead of sitting next to you like how you thought he would do, he sits at the mirror, swiveling the chair around so that he faces you. “First and foremost I want to remind you that I work for the press. What you say can and will be used for the sake of a story I will write and will eventually go public with. That little stunt you pulled before when you opened the door? I can forget about that if you promise to behave from here on out.”Jungkook sticks his hands between his thighs and rocks the chair from side to side while he looks at anything other than you. He appears almost like a child being scolded by their mother. You take note not to wag your finger at him.“I really am sorry. Sometimes it’s hard to get out of that character you know?”Intrigued, you lean forward, pen clicked and ready to write.“What do you mean by character?” This could be exactly the story you’re looking for that no one else has done. Shy boy by day, rock star by night. It’s a concept everyone loves to love and every girl fantasizes about being the one person to get to that side of the rock star. This could definitely be your big break, the story read by hundreds of thousands of people. Maybe you’d be able to move up in the company. Or get a better job somewhere else altogether. This could totally change your life and your career. This is-“Pffft. Jeez I wasn’t being serious.” He crosses his arms over his chest and puffs a big breath out of his mouth, making his bangs fly up in the air. There goes your big break.“I’m sorry. This is awkward and I’m not painting myself in the best light. Can we start over?” The sincerity in his voice is what initially makes you listen and not get annoyed with him. You’ve been there, under stress and unable to decide which sides of you you should be presenting to people. Damn, you of all people should relate. Countless times people have misjudged you based off a snippet of you they’ve seen, which is usually the frantic stressed out you. Although he says it’s a joke, you know there’s some truths hidden in his previous comment. Being in the spotlight can’t be easy.You smile and nod your head, sitting back and getting comfortable in the chair.“Yeah. Let’s start over.”“JUNG FREAKING KOOK.” You slam your door shut with a loud bang as you enter your home, throwing your notepad and backpack into your living room with a demonic like screech. Things had been going so well. You should have known it wouldn’t stay that way.You use one foot to stomp on the back of your shoe on your other foot, prompting your ankle to be freed from the confinements of the shoe before bending down and yanking it off completely, not bothering to hold onto it to set it down nicely. No. Instead you let the shoe fling through the air, soaring into the kitchen before you hear a loud bang and a crash.Uncaringly, you stomp up the stairs and into your bedroom, flinging yourself onto your bed face down in a fit of defeat.It was one thing to try to be nice to someone you initially didn’t like at all. It’s another thing to try to stay professional while said person blatantly mocks your work and does everything he physically could to make it impossible.After his apology you had tried to start up the interview by asking generic fan questions you found online while doing some undercover snooping. At first Jungkook’s answers seemed genuine. But then you noticed a pattern. A pattern of contradictory in fact.The whole situation seemed scripted and you feel as though he approached it as a game. You doubt if any of your notes are even usable at this point. You can’t write a story with false information because it will ruin your career and you can’t try to fill in the blanks because you’ve established an unbiased reputation for yourself. You could possibly tell it straight and write about your first impressions and the fact that Jeon Jungkook is a complete dumbass who isn’t worth anyone’s time…but it doesn’t feel like professional journalism.This is not how you wanted this to go.Angry tears threaten to spill from the corners of your eyes but you will them back into your tear ducts. You will not waste that kind of energy on this kind of person.The energy you will waste on the other hand is anger. And the person you’ll waste them on? Your boss.Who cares if it’s two in the morning anyways.Like you expected, your call goes to voicemail after a couple rings.“Hey boss man it’s me. Your supposed best writer. You know? The one you apparently seem to HATE and want to TORTURE. This assignment is ridiculous and I will do anything, ANYTHING, to get reassigned-”’-to send your message, press one. To play back your message, press two. To delete-’You press one quickly and dial the number again until you hear that sweet, sweet beep.“Yeah. Me again. Do you know that he winked at me? That should have been my first warning because he winked not even five minutes into our introductions. But then I thought hey! At least give the guy a chance! Maybe he’s not so bad! Well no! He’s worse than that! He’s!-”’-to send your mes-’You immediately hit one and call him back.“Every question I asked him he loaded with bullshit. I swear he has a personal vendetta against the press. Anytime I would get CLOSE to something newsworthy he’d go and ruin it!-”‘-to send-’Eleven more calls and one breakdown later, you bid your boss a splendid night and tell him that you hope he’s sleeping well.As you get ready for bed you start to regret those voicemails more and more. Not just for the fact that you called your boss 14 times at past two in the morning, but you also begin to regret the contents of your voicemails.You sit on the edge of your bed, kicking your feet back and forth lightly in the air as your fingers grip the edges of your blankets. Thoughts swarm rapidly in your mind faster (and scarier) than a swarm of bees about to protect their nest.No matter what you do, you can’t get your mind off of him.When you head downstairs to get a bowl of cereal, your mind drifts and wonders what Jungkook’s cereal of choice would be. He seems like a Coco Puffs person. Probably drinks the milk down to the last drop too.Then as you brush your teeth, you wonder what color toothbrush he has. And if he chooses Crest or Colgate.And even worse, as you lie awake in bed, pleading for sleep to take you out of your misery, you wonder what kind of life he leads outside of the band and who he truly is deep underneath that persona he’s seemed to perfect.As sleep grows nearer and nearer, you grumble angrily to yourself, trying to remember why you hate him in the first place. And then trying to remember what those reasons even were.The second concert night is spent watching Jungkook parade around the stage, an inviting finger curling towards himself directed at any girl who looked like a model straight out of a magazine.The second night Jungkook flirted with everyone in the crowd.Everyone but you.Even in your interview with him he barely gave you any attention. He just sat in his seat, legs crossed, and appeared more interested in anything in the room that wasn’t you. At one point he even started scribbling down some song lyrics in a little notebook  he pulled out of his back pocket.You couldn’t help but take that opportunity to truly marvel over Jungkook’s body with thick rippling muscles and perfectly smooth skin, the guy had it all.Sickening regret overtook you as you realized what you were doing: ogling at him. Just like every other girl that gets near him. And dammit you would not be like those other girls.That night as you lay in bed, you contemplated the pros and cons of being “accidentally” hit by a bus just to miss his stupid concert tomorrow.By night three you can tell Jungkook is toying with you. The way he would look right over your head during one song but wouldn’t take his eyes off of you in the next. He seemed particularly drawn to you when the band would play their lewdest of music. During these times, you’d just cross your arms and doodle in your notebook, stealing glances every now and then when you could, all the while hoping Jungkook wouldn’t catch you doing so.Neighboring fans bickered as they tried to guess who he was staring at and singing to. You tried to hide the ever growing smile on your face as two obsessive teenage girls nearly grabbed each other’s throats, each claiming that they were the one Jungkook desired.And then a deep sinking feeling falls in the pit of your stomach that it’s you that Jungkook desires.At least according to the two seventeen year old’s you are.You go back to doodling in your notebook and vow that you will be able to go to bed without thinking of him tonight.With the previous vows being broken, you walk into night four with confidence despite the failure to keep a lousy lead singer from your mind…and your dreams.Last nights dream was the most explicit one yet and you woke up in a panicked sweat nearly gasping for air. Strands of hair clung to the skin of your neck, your eyes wild and alert as you tried to remember that it was just a dream.It was just a dream…You shake it out of your thoughts and try to be firm with your inner self. You will not let him get to you today. You will not let that sexy body, long curly haired, talented freak show get to you today.You try to tell that to yourself throughout the whole concert until Jungkook pauses after a song, gripping the mic tightly with both hands and smiling brightly to the crowd.“Now, we’re about to do something we’ve never done before. But I wanted to ask a special someone to come up on stage with me tonight so I could sing to them. Because sometimes, even rock stars have love ballads to get off their chests.”Holy hell he’s going to invite you up on stage!Your body feels as if it’s turned to stone. Muscles completely rigid, eyes wide, mouth slightly open, you can’t process what’s happening right now. You didn’t even wear a particularly cute outfit. Is he going to sit you on a stool like Justin Bieber did with One Less Lonely Girl? Oh god. He won’t try to hold your hand while he sings to you…will he?Just as you’re about to officially start hyperventilating, the lights go dark and a spotlight beam flashes over the sea of people. You squint your eyes as it scans over you.But then the light moves past you.And lands on another girl fifteen feet away from you.Surprise is the only emotion you can cling to. You truly thought, from the pit of your stomach, that Jungkook was going to use this as some ploy to publicly embarrass you.The other girl and her group of friends squeal like a bunch of piglets, jumping up and down as they clasp hands before shooing the girl off. She’s escorted by a security guard that helps her get to the stage.Low and fucking behold, Jungkook brings out a cheap ass bar stool and has the girl sit down right on it.She has her hands covering her mouth, the lights reflecting in the whites of her eyes. True and utter devotion expels from her very presence on that stage.And Jungkook doesn’t even look at her.Instead, his eyes finds yours as he begins to play his soft ballad and all of your hidden feelings of execration disappear.Words of hopeful unrequited love fill the concert room, a song you have not heard before. You sit in awe as you watch Jungkook completely ignores the girl sitting two feet away from him. Instead, between stolen glances at you, his eyes are closed as his hands grip the mic stand firmly. Several veins become apparent in his throat as he pushes himself further, his voice carrying higher and higher, lifting your heart up with it.The words to the song kind of blur away as he sings. Instead, you let the music wash over you, feeling each vibration from the guitar strings, each press of a piano note, and each emotion laced into Jungkook’s voice.Nothing has moved you more than this song and this performance and you feel like you finally understand just who Jeon Jungkook is.A twinge of something sparks beneath your chest as you look at Jungkook and how he’s looking at you; as if it was just you two here at the concert. You’re already standing, but, at the same time, it’s not enough.You’re tempted to walk to him, accept this gesture and put all your past squabbles behind.The song ends and you take one step forward just as Jungkook says, “Thank you everyone! That lovely song was written by non other than our amazing drummer. Can I get a round of applause?”Your heart sinks in your chest as you take a step back towards your seat. Deep in your thoughts, you would have guessed Jungkook wrote the song about you.Deflated and slightly embarrassed, you sit down in your seat as Jungkook finally acknowledges the gorgeous girl sitting next to him.You don’t even watch.You sludge your way down the all too familiar hallway before you get to Jungkook’s dressing room.You barely get one knock in before the door swings open quickly.“Hello, hello, hello!”“Jesus Christ!” You clutch your chest and take a few steps backwards. Your heart is racing faster than a crowd running into a store on black Friday.“Sorry.”You look up to see a smug Jungkook towering above you. You feel your heart jump deep within your throat, like a frog trying to escape. You try to swallow what little saliva is in your mouth, but your throat is as raw as sandpaper.“Just got excited,” he winks at you, causing your eyebrows to furrow as you take a step inside his dressing room.To your surprise, it’s still clean in here.“You seem awfully cheery,” skeptically you enter the room, trying to ignore the singer’s bouncing curly hair that you just want to push out of his face.“Just got done with a great show!” He beams and shuts the door. “Now I get to talk to a cute girl. Pretty good day if I do say so myself.”“Cut the crap, pretty boy. I’m here for a story not to play games like you’ve been trying to do the past couple of days. It’s time we got serious.”“Well that’s too bad,” he sighs. “I really love games.”The silky yet raspiness of his voice causes you to stop mid movement. You blink a couple of times and remember how you felt when you found out the drummer wrote that beautiful ballad before regaining your composure and start to scribble down basic info about the room into your notepad. Anything to get your eyes off of him.Jungkook saunters over to you, jutting one hip forward so his whole body turns to you as he stops. He moves his head to the side, maintaining eye contact with you. White hot heat erupts throughout your whole body, making the hairs on your arms and the back of your neck stand up. Your heart pounds in your ears as he licks his bottom lip almost in slow motion.And for a moment you forget that you’re here as a journalist, not a cringe worthy fan.“Hey.” Jungkook nods his head at you as he slides one arm up the wall past your head, leaning his own face down towards yours with his other hand. “Don’t I know you from somewhere?”He’s nuts right? He can’t actually forget that you’ve had a couple interviews this week already? This has to be one of his games.The heat from his body begins to mingle with your own and you’re disappointed with yourself as you intently watch a bead of sweat fall from the tips of his hair and deliciously roll down the curve of his temple. His lips form his words slowly, tongue rolling teasingly inside of his mouth.Just in time before it got weird, you shake yourself out of your trance and take a long step away from him. But the way his black t-shirt is hugging his bicep muscles is calling you back.“You might know my work,” you say vaguely. You look down at your fingernails, resisting the urge to smile as you play into his little game.“Oh, I’d love to know your work, if you catch my drift” He gets closer once again, licking his lips as he eyes you from head to toe to back up again.“Relax, drummer boy.” You make the mistake of placing your hand on his chest to push him away, but instead your hand hovers over the mounds of hidden muscle. You almost don’t catch the ‘wow’ forming on your lips but do so before they enter the world. You swallow down your drool and promptly move your hand away, feeling trapped in his gaze and unable to move forward.“First off, if you’ve paid any attention to my concerts or know anything about me or even a semi decent journalist…I’m not a drummer. Secondly, you think you’re hiding your attraction for me pretty well but I hate to break it to you, sweetheart, you’re not. Cheeks flushed? Check.” He gently flicks one of your cheeks as he says it. “Body language? Check.” He flicks at your hips which have noticeably to you, turned towards his own hips. “Lips-”“Alright! Alright!” You throw your hands up in defeat, still unwilling to admit that he’s right on every aspect. “Look. I’m here to interview you. Tonight was the last concert I was forced to attend. So now I need to get the final piece of the puzzle. Your agent said you’d be okay with it. Can we get started so that I can go home and try to forget about this as soon as possible?”Jungkook chuckles but backs off and gestures towards his dressing room.“Right this way, news lady.”“I’m not a-” noticing his smirk, you shut your mouth.“I got jokes too, love.”You scowl at the pet name and stomp over to your usual spot on the couch. Things between Jungkook and you have become too comfortable. You’re not sure how it happened but you have to at least try to get some decent work done.“Fans want to know-”Jungkook grabs your notebook from your hands and throws it onto the ground, moving his hands to your shoulders as he looks down at you.“Fans want to know a lot about me. From what time I was born to how big my cock his. You’ve asked me every question in the book. But now I have a question for you.”“You’ve really got some fucking nerve to act like this.” You raise your voice and stand up, not wanting him to tower over you.“Oh yeah? And how am I acting?” He crosses his arms over his chest and waits for your response.“Like a spoiled celebrity!” He scoffs and rolls his eyes at you but you’re not quite done talking. “You think any girl is going to just fling herself at you? You think you can manipulate interviewers into thinking they’ve got a brilliant story without actually learning about you but guess what, pal! You’re a lot easier to read than you think!”“Oh yeah?” Jungkook’s anger matches yours at this point. “And who are you to come in here and tell me how I’m supposed to be or how I’m supposed to act? Newsflash, babe, but these are my fucking shows you’ve been attending and guess what? Here I am king and not even you can knock me down. So please, go ahead and try again. You’re no better than me and you know it.”He’s about to fully turn from you when you reach out and grab his hand suddenly. Jungkook looks at you questioningly as you stare at your hand holding his. What are you doing, Y/n?“I must be out of my damned mind.” You say out loud, yanking his arm towards you so that his body faces yours. Before he can regain his footing, your lips are on his.Immediately Jungkook envelopes you within his arms, deepening the kiss as he holds you tightly.Passionate, as it may be, it only lasts for a moment.Because it turns fiery.The kisses deepen, his tongue swirling into yours as his hands roam over your body. Your entire self is alive with fire and you didn’t expect to be turned on this quickly by a kiss alone. His hands grab at your ass, squeezing until you’re gasping against his mouth. Jungkook pushes you back until you’re pressed against the vanity table.His hands are firm on your thighs as he hoists you up, an involuntary gasp leaving your lips. Hot fingertips brush against your bare skin and it’s all you can do to keep yourself from physically melting in his embrace. It’s obvious he knows the power he has over you with the way he smirks, his eyes playfully drawing you in.God, you want to kiss him forever.Moving you to the counter, Jungkook promptly places you on top and hooks your legs around his waist. You keep your arms around his neck as his hands roam up your thighs, pushing up your skirt to a tasteful shortness. His thumbs rub circles into your thighs, allowing enough pressure that’s driving your core insane. He’s so close…so close.Right as you’re about to come to your senses and debate just how ethical this situation is, his lips are on your neck, just below your jaw line.“Oh!” You gasp, one of your hands fisting his hair at the nape of his neck.“Sensitive?” he whispers against your skin, his lips barely ghosting over you. Chills explode throughout your body in the midst of this heat he’s creating.Without responding, you grip his leather jacket and pull him closer, groaning as you feel his hardening cock against your cunt.“So, so eager for me.” He tsks. “And to think you put up such a good front about how much you disliked me.”“Shut up,” you groan, his hands moving up further.“Shut up? Now, that’s not very nice.” He talks slowly, his voice a deep rumble in his throat. His fingers ghost over your hip bones, feeling the cloth of your panties between his fingers. You’re slightly thankful you decided to wear a skirt today.“I think we’ve established I’m not a very nice girl.” You look into his dilated eyes and wait for his next move.“Maybe I don’t like nice girls.” And with that said, he nibbles on the spot on your neck just below your ear and right as you moan, his fingers brush against your clit, making you double forward. You grip his shoulders tightly as you gasp for air. The touches are slight and you’re embarrassed at how turned on you actually are.“Such sweet moans, baby. Oh, I’ve been thinking about hearing this from you since the moment I saw you that first night.” He takes his thumb and presses it firmly against your clit, applying just enough pressure to get you buzzing.“Tell me,” Jungkook pulls away from you slightly, “do you really want me? You’re reacting perfectly right now but I want to make sure this isn’t just some ploy for some tabloid you’ll write later. Are you in this for me? Or for the story?”To be completely honest, you have to stop and think about that question for a second. Do you really want this lowlife wannabe rock star? Do you really want to stoop so low as to sleep with the person you’re supposed to be writing a story on?“Yes,” you say strongly. “I want you.”Shock is written all over Jungkook’s face. Clearly he was expecting a different answer from you.“Say it again.”“Hmm?”“Say it. Again,” he growls this time and uses his body weight to lean you back on the counter until your head is resting against the mirror. He takes his hand and delicately traces along your jawline with the outskirts of his pointer finger, the gesture making you feel like he’s in for this more than for the good review.“I want you, Jungkook.”Before you can blink, Jungkook’s hands grip the collar of your shirt and pull out and down, tearing the fabric as if it were nothing more than a sheet of paper. He moves quickly and unclasps your bra from behind your back. In a matter of milliseconds you’re half naked in front of the musician.You take this moment to lay there confidently and resist the urge to cover yourself. Jutting your chest out, you angle yourself perfectly so that your breasts are just in his line of site. And that’s exactly where his eyes remain as he fumbles with his belt.“God you’re so sexy.” He bites his bottom lip as he throws his belt behind him, the leather slapping the wall deliciously before falling onto the couch. You expected him to undo his pants, to throw himself onto you and for the sloppy sex to commence. Instead, he surprises you by taking a step back. One hand flies to his mouth as he stares at you the way an artist stares at another’s work.You’re not sure whether to feel flattered or self conscious.“Do you know how badly I wanted you ever since I saw you walk into that first concert?” He groans and his hands are back on your thighs; rubbing, touching, soothing.You bite your bottom lip and shake your head, afraid to make a sound because just from his touch on your legs it feels so good.“I thought about you all night. And then to see you show up again? And then a third time?” He groans again, only louder this time. “I swear it was like I could tell you wanted me too.” He stares intently at your clothed core, mouth practically watering.“I mean I was only there on official business,” you retort but in a softer tone. Your eyes begin to flutter shut as Jungkook continues to massage your thighs therapeutically.The massage stops suddenly and your eyes snap open. Jungkook is standing before you now, eyes sincere and ridden of any telling’s of sexual intent.“You don’t really believe everything they’ve been writing about me, have you?” His voice is timid, vulnerability washing through his face.It suddenly dawns on you that this is more than just a sexual encounter to him. This might actually mean something. And now your mind is battling once again but with a new counter argument."I don’t believe them.” You look into his eyes and watch as relief washes over them. The corners of his eyes crinkle as he smiles down at you and very swiftly he envelops you in his arms, the fact that you are without a shirt completely overlooked.Jungkook’s lips crash onto yours. It’s rough and almost forceful at first, but then he softens, his lips taking the time to mold against your own. Instead of kissing you so hard your teeth start to hurt, he backs off so all you feel is his pillowy lips against yours. Pace promptly picking up, you gasp as he suddenly pulls away, the taste of his lips lingering on your own.“Wow,” he sighs. “you taste like strawberries.”“You taste like sin.”Barely having time to take in another breath, you pull on his jacket, needing him closer.The kiss is immediately fiery and hot. It just feels your want and need for him. You keep your hands firmly grasped on his jacket, afraid to let them roam wherever they please.Jungkook, on the other hand, can’t make up his mind. His hands roam from your thighs to your back, delicately cupping the curves of your ribcage into his palms before moving on. From your back he has one hand on the back of your neck while the other one explores your breast. You moan into his lips as he tweaks at your hardened nipple. Jungkook takes advantage of your moan and bites aggressively onto your bottom lip. You whimper before he finally lets go, your bottom lip throbbing as it already begins to feel swollen.“Let me know if I’m too rough,” Jungkook whispers into your ear before gently nibble against the lobe.“Okay. But I kind of like it.”“I’ll make you feel real good, I promise.” He backs up and shrugs his jacket off, throwing it on the floor thoughtlessly and then quickly removes his white t-shirt. You hitch in a breath as you marvel over his toned muscles. His pecs alone have you drooling before you even realize he has a six pack. And the muscles aren’t the only thing drool worthy here. Beautifully inked tattoos coat his skin, an array of black and white ink spilling out different stories into his flesh. Your eyes are immediately drawn to the intricate tattoo of the ocean with a little ship sailing through what appears to be a storm right on his sternum.“A story for another time.” He smirks and removes his belt from his jeans, swiftly taking off his clothes until he’s standing naked before you.“Holy-” you choke on your words as your eyes practically dangle out of your head.Smugly, Jungkook wraps his fist around his cock, giving it a quick pump until a little bead of precum is visible on the head of his reddening cock.“You like what you see?” He asks amused.“To be honest I can’t believe what I’m seeing.” And it’s true. Never in your wildest thoughts would you have imagined Jeon Jungkook sporting the biggest cock you have ever seen. How is this even possible? No man on the face of the earthy is a decent human being, incredibly hot, and has a monster schlong. It’s not possible. Physically not possible.“I’ve been saving it for you.” He gives his cock another pleasurable tug as he looks at you. “Ever since that first day I saw you. I’ve been wanting to give it to you.”“Well…” you spread your legs open wide, exposing your core to him, “come give it to me.”Jungkook growls as he promptly picks you up off the counter and slams your body onto the couch at the other side of the room. You gasp as the wind gets knocked out of you slightly, unable to keep up with his quick motions. He grinds his cock over your clit, making you gasp and cling onto him. Your nails dig into his back and he winces, but doesn’t tell you to stop.His hands sloppily roam your body as he kisses you all over, hips still grinding deeply into your sensitive clit, your slick getting all over his shaft. It already feels so good and your lower half twitches with the need to be filled.Jungkook’s long curly hair tickles your chin as he bites onto your collarbone. You cry out and cling to his hair, letting your desires to push your fingers through it come to life. It’s a lot silkier than you imagined, the strands finer than freshly washed linens. He groans with pleasure as you tug this way and that, loving the way his eyes flutter shut as you pull on his lovely hair.“Ugh no more teasing. I need to be in you.” He grabs your wrists and removes your hands from his hair and positions himself properly.As soon as you feel him nearing your entrance, your head falls back in bliss. But he hesitates before starting his insertion. He’s looking you up and down, marveling over your curves the same way he did before.“You’re so fucking sexy. I can’t believe we’re about to do this.” And with that said, the tip of his cock pushes past your folds and into your entrance. He moves slow, letting your body adjust around him. He isn’t even halfway into you before you feel him brush against your sensitive spot.“Fuck you’re so tight!” He groans, leaning forward to massage one of your breasts and he gently rocks back and forth inside you. “Can you even take this cock? Hmm? I bet you’ve never had cock even half the size of mine.” He thrusts further into you, making you cry out with pleasure. It already feels like over stimulation and you haven’t even come yet.“Tell me, y/n. I wanna hear you say it. Tell me you’ve never had cock like mine.”Unprompted, he starts rocking in and out of you in a steady pace. With each thrust he hits your sweet spot and you’re already so turned on you think you’re going to come in record time.“I’ve nev-ever had cock like yours!” You cry out as you cling to his biceps, nails digging into his beautiful skin and leaving red trail marks in their trace. Your words spur him on, inspiring his movements. There’s a firm and steady rhythm to his thrusts that have you wailing for mercy. You hate how much truth there is behind that one sentence.Jungkook’s hand grips your breast so tightly it’s starting to go numb while his other hand is placed firmly by your head, holding up his body weight as he pounds you deeper and deeper.Right as you feel that bundle of nerves start to tighten and coil, he slows his pace, staring at you with a newfound look in his eyes that catches you slightly off guard. There’s a hidden softness and, you hate to put meaning behind his actions, but it almost appears that he’s looking at you with admiration and fondness.Then, like the flick of a light switch, that look is gone and he’s grimacing at you wickedly.Wordlessly, he stops his pace completely, appearing to be mulling over a thought.“Is something wrong?” You croak, gripping his arms as tightly as ever.“This won’t do.” He decides. Before you have time to panic over the thought that just two minutes of sex with you was so completely horrible that he would have to stop, Jungkook flips your body around and puts your hands on the top of the couch. He then encourages your legs to support your weight on your knees, the couch cushions feeling soft and pillowy on your skin. Jungkook growls as he forces your head down and spreads your legs open.“There we go,” he purrs, “all sexy and dripping just for me.” Sudden pain makes you sink further into the couch, your legs trembling. It takes an embarrassing long moment before you realize that he slapped your pussy. And then another moment passes before you realize you actually like it.You wiggle your ass slowly, hoping that it’ll piss him off and he’ll spank you again.He does not fall for it.“So…so needy for me.” He tsks and then you feel him. His fingers are rubbing up and down your slit, using your juices as lubricant. Just the roughness of his hands mixed in with the wetness of yourself over your bundle of nerves has you trembling harder before him. You want to tell him to fill you back up with his cock, that you need his cock, but words don’t seem to be able to form in your mouth.Jungkook’s fingers circle slowly around your clit. You bite down on the couch as you cry out. You’ve never been good with patience. And right now it was sure as hell testing you.Your whimpers grow stronger-louder as he keeps his slow pace. It’s not enough. You need fast, you need hard, you need to come. Now.“Jungkook…I…” you turn your head to look back at him but he grips your chin roughly with his free hand, turning you back towards the wall.“Do not beg. All anyone can do is beg around me. I want you to be a good girl and tell me what you want.” Jungkook leans down and lightly blows on your wet core. The wetness mixed with his breath sends goosebumps all over your body. Your shoulders roll back and you’re cursing yourself for thinking that you might actually come from barely any cock play.“I want you inside me.” You manage to gasp out, somehow managing to get out of the cloudy head space you were in only moments before.“Hmmm.” Jungkook stops his actions and moves away from you, sitting back in his chair so that he can marvel at your body. “Need to be just a little more specific than that.”Your pride stings a bit and for a brief moment you’re tempted to stand up and walk out of this room butt ass naked. But even with all the bickering and teasing, he’s a good fuck, and deep down he truly seems like a decent guy. Oh, and also you need as much info for your work piece as you can.Through chattering teeth and heated cheeks, you manage to gasp out, “your cock! I want your cock inside me!”Jungkook chuckles from his chair as he slowly strokes himself. And it’s embarrassing that with that mental picture alone you could be coming in mere moments.Sauntering over to you, Jungkook takes extra efforts to appear cool and collected. His hips sway more and his eyes looked relaxed, not a single trace of worry or anxiety anywhere on his face. He truly is dripping with sexiness. Fuck, even the way he blinks is attractive and all you can think of as he lies you down on your back on the floor is that this must be some kind of prank. Soon a few people with cameras will come bustling in and point and laugh at your nakedness. No one as gorgeous as Jeon Jungkook would look at you and think, yeah I want to fuck that. You would think it would be more like, yeah, that’s fuckable I guess.As Jungkook massages you thighs again, slowly working his way back to your core, your previous worries disappear.“You are so sexy.” There’s a deep hunger in his voice, a tone you’ve never actually heard before but you know that’s just what it is; hunger.Without further warning, he lifts your legs up and onto his left shoulder, crossing your feet over one another before he leans down and inserts the tip of his cock into your still ever so wet entrance. Jungkook’s head falls back with pleasure as he closes his eyes tightly, his mouth hanging open as a sweet, beautiful, moan leaves his lips that only increases in volume the further he gets inside you.“You’re magic, baby. Magic, I swear.” He starts his pace up again with a little more mercy than before. He slowly grinds his hips against yours, not only grinding inward, no, but as soon as he bottoms out, he pushes up as he pulls out so you feel every single inch of him touching every single inch of you.“You talk too much.” You grunt as you try to maintain your hardened exterior, but it’s hard when he’s literally pounding you harder than a college freshman drinking beer at their first party.“I think you like when I talk.” The deep rasp of his voice makes you gulp hard but what really gets you going is when he lifts up three fingers and likes them from base to tip. Something about this is so lewd and so attractive and you can feel yourself losing this unnamed battle you’ve put against Jungkook.And he wins that battle the moment he takes those slickened fingers and starts to rub them against your clit as he continues to rhythmically rock his hips into you.You’re losing control too quickly, about to come too fast. You can see Jungkook’s ego swelling bigger and bigger with each thrust. He thinks he’s in control.He thinks he’s broken you.Biting down hard on your bottom lip, you muster up as much courage as you possibly can and use your legs to swiftly throw Jungkook onto his back. The momentum helps you assume your position on top of him. Before Jungkook can even get a word out, you put your left hand against his jugular, your fingers delicately roaming his skin as you apply light pressure.“I said,” you huff some air up at your bangs to get them out of our face, “you talk too much.”You see more of the whites in Jungkook’s eyes, the tip of his nose twitching in anticipation. Smirking, you can’t help but take in the moment. It’s clear he was not expecting you to take action like that.With your hand still on his throat, you lean back and grasps his cock, putting the tip against your wetness and reveling in how enrapturing it feels to have your cunt filled by him.Immediately after you sink all the way down, Jungkook is a whining whimpering mess.“Y/n please move. Please it’s driving me insane.” His words choke out past the grip you have on his throat.Music to your ears.Jungkook grips the couch cushions tightly from his spot on the floor as he refrains from moving. His eyes are shut tightly, bottom lip quivering slightly. A complete one eighty from his previous demeanor.Unintentionally, you lean forward and raise your hand, gently rubbing from his temple to his jawline with the outside of your fingers.The action surprises even yourself.Jungkook’s breathing quickens beneath you and that’s when you decide to start moving.Man, if you thought Jungkook was a whiner before? It doesn’t compared to now. You’ve only just started rocking your hips, grinding downward into his pelvis as you move up and rocking slow circles around his cock as you go down. He grips your thighs tightly, going back and forth between gripping your skin tightly to moving his hands up and down your skin.You take your hand off his throat as you lean back, arching your back until your hands rest on his own thighs.“Oh fuck!” Jungkook cries as you begin to bounce on top of him. You’re not sure what you find more pleasure in; watching Jungkook completely fall apart beneath you, or the actual sex. You tighten your grip on his thighs slightly, his mouth falling into that beautiful ‘O’ shape and his eyes begin to roll back with pleasure.Adjusting your position by leaning back just a little bit more, you feel Jungkook’s cock hitting against your g-spot with every grind of your hips. It feels so good that you can’t stop rolling your hips, using his cock to get you off.“Just like that. Keep going.” Jungkook guides your hips, his large hands holding you right where your hip bones are. He grinds himself deeper into you, a moaning mess as you try to keep yourself from coming.But then, Jungkook sits up with you still in his lap. You continue to get yourself off as he places wet, moan filled kisses along your neck.“You’re so selfish,” he growls in between open mouthed kisses, “getting yourself off without thinking of me? Hmm? You gonna come on my cock? That’s right. Channel all of that hatred towards your release. Now come.”You hate to admit that his words definitely help get you closer. But it isn’t until his hand snakes up your back and grips your hair by your scalp, pulling you back until your body makes a ‘C’ type form, that you truly feel your release coming.“I said come, bitch! I want everyone to hear you coming on my cock!” There’s a fierce fire in his eyes that go beyond that hungry arousal. It’s almost a demon like feralism and you can’t say no to the devil now, can you?You close your eyes as that white hot heat takes over you and you let yourself go. Consciously, you don’t dare say his name as you come, but you can’t hold back the moans nonetheless. You hope the other members enjoy it from their spot in the other room.Legs shaking and breath still hard to catch, you come down from your high to see that Jungkook is not far behind you. You push on through the sensitivity and continue to aggressively move your hips against his until his back is arching and he’s clinging to you with desperation.With unhuman like strength, Jungkook quickly pulls you off his cock and fiercely pumps himself to completion, scattering his semen over your breasts.Both panting heavily, you stare at each other, neither of you able to break the other’s gaze.The staring gets a little uncomfortable mixed in with come dripping around your body so you lay back in hopes to catch your breath. Jungkook lays next to you and you’re taken off guard by the idea of him coddling you after sex. Well, especially after sex like that.You want to break the uncomfortable silence, but when you turn to him, he’s fast asleep.Anger flushes through your body once more. He didn’t even have the decency to bring you a tissue to help clean yourself up.That’s it, you decide. You’re not going to stay here another second.Using your hand, you try to keep the come from sliding down your body any further. It’s sticky. It’s warm. And it’s absolutely disgusting. But there’s no way you’re going to sit here and wait for mr rock and roll to wake up from his pleasant nap.There’s tissues by his vanity mirror and you have to sacrifice one hand in order to grab some. Come slides down your chest and heads towards your bellybutton, the literal worst spot to have to clean come out of.Well, you remember that one time when the dude missed your face…You shudder just thinking about it.As you’re cleaning yourself, you stop dead in your tracks as you hear a noise from the other room. You put your ear on the wall and listen closely to what could only be the sound of multiple men moaning. And then, very faintly, you hear them speak.“Fuck it sounds like they’re done and I’m not even close.”“Do you think she’d come in here and let us take a turn?”“Yeah right you know Jungkook doesn’t like to share.”You immediately think back to that sexy drummer and for a moment, a very brief moment, you consider going over there and letting the three men have their way with you. Undeniably, it’s extremely hot to think about and you feel yourself getting wetter by the thought of it. But you look over and Jungkook and something deep within you tells you it’s not the right thing to do.Plus you need to get home and write your story.After cleaning yourself up, you slowly get dressed, moving as soundlessly as possible. There’s no way you can handle any possibilities that will come if Jungkook wakes up right now. Would he want you to stay? Would he expect you to be gone already? Would he-? Oh god you hope he doesn’t expect this to be a regular thing.Pulling up your skirt, you rethink your last thought. You guess it wouldn’t be entirely awful if he would perhaps call you up every once in a while? Only if he was in town, of course.Because god damn is he a really great fuck.Completely dressed now, you linger in the room. You’re not sure if you should leave your phone number for him, but that seems too desperate and he might get the wrong idea. Plus, who knows if he has some secret box of every phone number that’s been shoved his way. You refuse to be a part of a collection.An imaginary light bulb pops above your head and you reach for your bag.You close the door to the dressing room, your business card laying on Jungkook’s chest.That night you sit at your computer, the bright screen light contrasting greatly against the dark night of the room. Crickets are chirping and frogs are croaking as you write the final words of your report. Deep, aching cramps settle within the muscles and joints of your fingers- mostly in your right thumb which you rub vigorously as you sit back and reread the paragraph you just wrote. Everything seems to be in place.After saving the story onto your flash drive, you stand up and walk over to your work bag, dropping the flash drive in lazily. You yawn and stretch out your arms, words still swimming in your head. Thank god it’s Friday and you can sleep in tomorrow.Walking back to your computer, you slowly close your laptop, your own catchy title disappearing into the darkness.‘GET THE JUNGKOOK EXPERIENCE: THE ENTIRE PACKAGE REVEALED’© do not copy, modify, translate, or repost. Jinned 10/26/19𝓂𝒶𝓈𝓉𝑒𝓇𝓁𝒾𝓈𝓉
 10.26.19
 2165
 reblog?
# bts
# Jungkook smut
# ficswithluv
# bangtanhq
# ksmutclub
# magicshopnet
# bts smut
# Jungkook e2l
# jeon jungkook
# jeon jungkook smut
# Jungkook x reader
# Jungkook x you
# bts x you
# bts x reader
# reader insert
# bts fics
# Jungkook fics
# rock star jungkook
# Jungkook band
# Jungkook hot
# Jungkook filth
liawithluv liked this                                    anjaygurinjayhyung liked this                                    pradakissy liked this                                    youreoneinamiliion liked this                                    jksluvb0t liked this                                    minevzaya liked this                                    coolbeanskwan liked this                                    its-chocolatechipcookies-love liked this                                    bbeomjks liked this                                    sublimepurseduckdragon liked this                                    22019loriaura liked this                                    peachjes liked this                                    ephemeralkookie liked this                                    yn-the-reader reblogged this from jinned                                                                                                                                                                                    scnrv liked this                                    metropolitanlilacs liked this                                    mnq-drr liked this                                    gukkiecuddles liked this                                    persiana-americana liked this                                    jiminswifeblr liked this                                    hahayeahboi liked this                                    hakko-bby liked this                                    burymeatmakeoutcreeek liked this                                    yoongslast liked this                                    moonnasiaa liked this                                    samekshareadsfics liked this                                    inthedeepdeepocean liked this                                    squishsungie liked this                                    jjgukskinzy liked this                                    christianakayley liked this                                    ughkae liked this                                    swinginpicklesuitcaseapricot liked this                                    kunkunieee liked this                                    kageyamasleftkneepad14 liked this                                    looking4mymagicshop liked this                                    diminieshoe liked this                                    iamamajorfuckingfaggot liked this                                    lovethegazette3-blog-blog liked this                                    massivecookiegiantathlete liked this                                    bl00mingbangtan liked this                                    tinykies liked this                                    baeszzy liked this                                    mrsshootnscore liked this                                    gukssunshinerecs reblogged this from dairykoo                                                                                                                                                                                    kooks3uphoria liked this                                    kjiro68 liked this                                    themfchase liked this                                    jayxliv liked this                                    minghoull liked this                                    pjmlylyn liked this                                    ')[1].split('')[0];
if(window.tumblrNotesLoaded)if(tumblrNotesLoaded(notes_html)==false)return;var more_notes_link=document.getElementById('more_notes_188618632439');var notes=more_notes_link.parentNode;notes.removeChild(more_notes_link);notes.innerHTML+=notes_html;if(window.tumblrNotesInserted)tumblrNotesInserted(notes_html);}};tumblrReq.open('GET','/notes/188618632439/Zm8YxUQTK?from_c=1600818038',true);tumblrReq.send();return false;">Show more notesLoading...
