                    Fanfiction   
                What say you   
                Just push play   
                Archive   
                Likes
                Thoughts of Kal →
                    House of old fanfic and new stories
                        twitter.com/kalendraashtar: 
                        8 months ago  (361 notes)
                            #Magnificent Strangers
                            #Part V
                            #Bonny Smile
                            #The End
                            #tw: death
                            #outlander fanfiction
                            #modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #tw: cancer
                            #thank you &lt;3
                            #Nat King Cole song Smile
                            Fanfiction - Magnificent Strangers
                            When I posted the first
chapter of this story, I told you it would make you laugh and be moved and that
is still my ultimate hope. While this last chapter for me isn’t about death, but
about life and love, I’m still putting a trigger warning on it. You can even ask
me or a friend what happens beforehand and then decide for yourself. This story
was a profound labour of love and I’m grateful for everyone who gave some of it back. XPart I , Part II, Part III , Part IVMagnificent StrangersPart V – Bonny SmileWe
have three good months after that. Jamie
is placed on a clinical trial for a promising new drug and I try not to inspect
him too closely for signs of its efficiency. There is an unspoken agreement
between us, since that day in Doctor Grey’s office, that he’d rather be my
lover for a minute than my patient for years to come. We
go on a series of dates, sometimes packing strolling, dinner, movie, drinks,
dancing, wild sex and tender lovemaking in a sole night, as if we are trying to
condense an entire lifetime into a span of unknown duration, but much shorter
than what it should have been. Every
so often we don’t sleep but touch each other from dusk to dawn, savouring long,
unhurried, hours of mutual satisfaction. Jamie makes me hot-and-cold desserts
every other night, tastes them straight from my mouth. I live things with him I
thought I’d only ever write about for others. We
go to Rome for a long weekend, plan for Hogmanay with mates and explore the
Highlands together. Jamie is beautiful and lively, his mind and wit sharp, but
his disease eats the little things. It gnaws at him in the middle of the Spanish Steps, when he has to stop
halfway up because he is breathless; it bites him during the night, when he
awakes soaked in unnatural sweat; it chews his hope, when he is formally
discharged from SAS, and he realizes
he is more than likely never wearing his uniform again. I’m
deliriously happy and permanently afraid, the two linked like a blossoming
plant and its parasite. I measure time through the growth of my curls, every
inch a memory shared with Jamie. Eventually,
after three months, I’m told I’m still firmly queen of remission-kingdom and
Jamie’s condition is still progressing. Dottie gives him a referral for
palliative care, and I can swear her upper lip trembles when she does it. This is
the place where hope ends.My
boyfriend is dying.That
night I don’t sleep, and I stay watching Jamie pretending that he does. His
features feel perpetually new to me, a blindingly-white panic of not being able
to memorize him well enough. But on the next morning, I wake with his touch
upon me, and it’s still the most real thing ever to exist. I
won’t allow myself to become paralyzed, grief-stricken, pliant as fear and rage
take away time that is still mine to share with Jamie. I will have him at the end,
even if I wish I had him from the start.After
four months, I’m laying in bed with him, witnessing him dozing on and off. He
is fairly tired now, his body scrawny, as if his very bones long to kiss the
skin of his cheeks from the inside out. Jamie doesn’t leave the house much
these days, the trip to the living room, to look at our painted garden, a
dangerous enough crossing. I’m monitoring his pain, all of it, trying to keep
it under control.He
moves a long foot against my leg and I almost jump, startled by the coldness of
his skin.“Here.”
I cover his feet with a pair of large abhorrent fuchsia socks, made of the
fluffiest wool, that I fished from my drawer. I tuck a thick quilt on top of
him, just for good measure. “Nice and cosy, my redheaded Scottish burrito.” “I
must write ye a letter of recommendation, Nurse Sassenach.” The way his
melodic brogue sounds, balmy and slightly naughty, makes my heart race. “Top
healthcare in yer boudoir.”I
giggle and he scrunches his nose, delighted. His eyes don’t leave my face, and
every ounce of who Jamie is still exists there. “Thank ye.” He says softly, his
voice impossibly deep and warm. “Thank ye, mo
ghraidh, my Claire.“I
comb his very short hair and emit a tutting sound. "I know fuzzy socks are
great - hm, okay, probably the best thing in the world, actually - but no need
to thank me. It’s just some deliciously warm feet you have there.”“Aye.”
He snorts, rubbing his cheek against the pillow. “Yer wee pink socks are a
true wonder, Sassenach, but it isna that I’m grateful for.” His blue eyes
are serious, adamant. “I meant "thank ye” for giving me
what was missing, what I needed.“ Jamie leans closer to me, his mouth very
close to mine, so I feel his words springing inside my body. "Thank ye for
bein’ my great love story.”I
bite my bottom lip and look down, my throat achy with emotion. “Please, don’t do that.”“What?”
He plays with a curl dangling from my forehead, and I risk peeking at his face.
He is smiling tenderly at me, cleaved open. “I’m only just telling my
bonny and bossy lass that she is the love of my life. It’s hardly tickle
torture.”“Don’t
-” I breathe through my nose, a moist and thrumpety sound, that makes me
think of a rhino with the flu. “Don’t
start saying goodbye to me.”His
brow furrows and he examines me with longing and kindness swimming in that
ocean-blue, jumping in the air like a flying fish, tasting the sun above before
splashing down again. “I think I might have to, soon. I’m certainly
not too keen at this business of dying, but I - I’ll be gone soon,
Claire. We need to say our hearts every day, until then.”I
press my lips to stop myself from sobbing and my palm rubs his shoulder
repeatedly, as if I’m trying to rekindle the fire of his body. “I cannot
accept that, I’m afraid.”Jamie
sighs and his hands frame my face, every line of his features arched in the
most bittersweet amusement. “My bonny fighter would challenge death itself
with her tinny fists. Some days, I’m so angry I feel my insides turning bitter.
I dinna want to die, to leave ye. But I canna fault a life that gave ye to me,
something so rare to have and to hold.”He
pauses for a moment and I know he is preparing himself to say something else I’d
rather not hear. "I
want tae know that ye will live a full life, Claire. That ye will think about
writing that story when it comes to ye.” He kisses my lips, sweet and
all-encompassing, takes his time before pulling away. “That ye will live boldly
and without fear. That the world will continue to see that bonny smile, my
favourite secret of yers.”“I’m
not sure that I can do that.” I explain in a whisper, the sound of falling
tears inside my voice, entwining our hands. “My heart seems to be breaking a
little.”“Hm.” Jamie hums, before he kisses my
knuckles and touches the place on my scalp where once a heart had beaten. “Ye
ken that song, aye? Smile though your heart is aching, smile even though
it’s breaking,” He sings tunelessly in a low voice, rubbing his cheek against
mine. “If you smile through your fear and sorrow, smile and maybe tomorrow,
you’ll see the sun come shining through for you.”And even though my heart is breaking, disassembling
on every point where he has inserted himself, I smile at him.***2 years laterI quirk a brow at the giant
billboard placed on the Glaswegian venue, announcing the Q&amp;A and autograph
session with C.E.B.F, author of “the most lauded debut novel of the decade” and “number one of The New York Times’ bestseller
list for twelve consecutive weeks”. Such glamour and pizzazz.
People so far away from dreaming that I’m still a shameless and simple
cuticle-biter, chicken-roast-arsonist, mirror-conversationalist. I
tilt my head towards the warmth of the sun, streaming through the glass window
next to the desk assigned to me, eyes closed. This last part is vital, because
you never feel the true warmth of the sun if you’re blinded by its light. The
middle-aged star has a particularly hard job over Scotland, always facing the
threat of an army of grey clouds, petulant drizzle and impetuous hail. But no
matter how much time and effort it takes, it always finds a way.Once,
Jamie and I came to Glasgow on a weekend. It was raining heavily, my dress was
soaked, but he had danced like a clumsy and limping Gene Kelly on the puddles,
and had kissed me hungrily under the scarce protection of my umbrella.  The sun is a resourceful and resilient
motherfucker. “Mrs?”
A timid yet emphatic voice sounds from the young girl standing in front of me,
the next of my autograph victims. “Mrs. Claire Elizabeth Beauchamp Fraser?”“In
the flesh.” I smile softly and prepare my pen to sign the hardcover copy of Magnificent Strangers she is offering
me. “I have to say, you sounded dangerously like my mother for a minute. Am I
in some sort of trouble, Miss?”The
freckled pretty brunette seems borderline embarrassed for a moment, before she
recovers her previous pluckiness. “I loved your book, Mrs. Beauchamp. I read it
pretty much in one sitting, because it’s just so engaging and well written. But
I don’t understand.” Her lips press
into a fine line, and she seems angry but also maybe on the verge of tearing
up. “How could you kill Proper Boy?
He had just found Curly Wig and they
were so happy. They deserved to be
happy. How could you kill him and still call it a love story for the ages?”I
smile, and there are memories poking at the corners of my mouth; if I broaden
it a bit further, I might find his own
laughter hidden there, colliding with mine. “Well,
I understand your point.” I think for a second, choosing my words carefully.
“As I see it, the depth of a love story isn’t measured through time. It isn’t
the axis it works best around. And love isn’t at the end of our fingertips,
anyway - it isn’t something we need to touch in order to feel.” She
squints at me, almost suspiciously, as if I’m trying to sell her a pamphlet to
Nirvana at her doorway. “I
guess what I’m trying to say is that some lovers are meant to be caressed in
memory. They aren’t here anymore, but love echoes.” I say softly. “Love
stays.” The
avid book reader looks down, and I see her throat working to swallow hard.
Eventually, she raises her eyes to me again, and they are brimming with
gentleness and understanding. “But it still sucks, huh?”I
nod in deep complicity, winking at her. “Yes. It sucks very much, indeed.”  I
write her a heartfelt dedication; she thanks me genuinely and disappears
amongst the buzzing crowd waiting for my attention. I sign hundreds of books,
take a few funny selfies and listen to dozens of rushed love stories.At
the end of the day, my handler offers me a steaming teacup to revive me. I
accept it gratefully, and as she walks outside to deal with a reporter, I touch
the cover of the book in front of me – my book, my story –, open it to
the first written page and whisper, “Still smiling, Sir.”To J., I will remember your oversized bed, the shape of
you, the moon on the floor, your ironed uniform hanging inside the closet, your
dust covered sax, our afternoon tea, our middays and midnights, our bodies
pressed together, the declarations of silence, then and forevermore. Your
mouth, my mouth, your hand, my hand, your eyes and the joy of you who made me
hope again. We will live forever, you and I.The
End In Loving MemoryOf All My Magnificent Strangers
                                Next post
                                Previous
gma171 liked this                                    marglyns said:                                             
                                Not a crier. I’ve read this story twice &amp; loved it. Tonight I was reading your blog &amp; came across this story so read just the last chapter &amp; here I am, sobbing like my heart is broken. It still sucks very much indeed.                            marglyns said:                                             
                                I didn’t cry &amp; I watched E509 4 times today. It was beautifully written &amp; acted by our lovebirds but I’m generally no ya crier                            bby-got-books liked this                                    soleilgirl liked this                                    tigergator liked this                                    veryfaintveryhuman reblogged this from kalendraashtar and added:                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                The joy of you. Thank you, Kal, from the bottom of my heart for all of the wonderful stories and worlds you’ve crafted...                            foulherringfriendflap said:                                             
                                JHRC I read this awhile ago. I’m reading this last chapter again and I can’t even read the first paragraph without bawling through the entire chapter. Magnificent writing. I’m definitely going to miss your writing. I hope you keep this fic up. Sometimes ya just need a good cry❤️                            youremyalways47 liked this                                    zale48 liked this                                    shyjulesbeachamppatroleagle liked this                                    bleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeh liked this                                    auroramf liked this                                    melissapam liked this                                    uzed2boutlanderchar said:                                             
                                What more can be said about this story of love , except that you wrote a powerful tale of redemption for Claire, and the one experience J was lacking in his brief life. Bravo ❤️.                            uzed2boutlanderchar liked this                                    taupeshop liked this                                    fozziebear6326 liked this                                    onesublimesoulcollector liked this                                    ladywynne liked this                                    cbs0831 reblogged this from kalendraashtar                                                                                                                                                                                    cbs0831 liked this                                    bobbie1945 liked this                                    cjm-56 liked this                                    millefluer liked this                                    thefraserwitch reblogged this from kalendraashtar and added:                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                Love stays                            thefraserwitch liked this                                    casualcatobservation liked this                                    marglyns liked this                                    sarcasmismysoul liked this                                    hakunamatata067 reblogged this from missclairebelle                                                                                                                                                                                    hakunamatata067 liked this                                    burnsismyjam liked this                                    jdin20 reblogged this from cant-resist-temptation                                                                                                                                                                                    crookedfestivalalmondknight reblogged this from missclairebelle                                                                                                                                                                                    nancyhibberd liked this                                    kaiulany liked this                                    marshmallow0810 liked this                                    ifc54 liked this                                    awesomeeyeroll reblogged this from kalendraashtar and added:                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                This fic killed me. It was just, wow.                            awesomeeyeroll liked this                                    estanyer001 liked this                                    suevanea3 liked this                                    suevanea3 reblogged this from kalendraashtar                                                                                                                                                                                    sanrafjol said:                                             
                                I’m gutted.  Beautiful story, Kal.                            kalendraashtar posted this                                                                        ')[1].split('')[0];
if(window.tumblrNotesLoaded)if(tumblrNotesLoaded(notes_html)==false)return;var more_notes_link=document.getElementById('more_notes_190586319048');var notes=more_notes_link.parentNode;notes.removeChild(more_notes_link);notes.innerHTML+=notes_html;if(window.tumblrNotesInserted)tumblrNotesInserted(notes_html);}};tumblrReq.open('GET','/notes/190586319048/1DRS948HT?from_c=1580702002',true);tumblrReq.send();return false;">Show more notesLoading...
            Theme: Linear by Peter Vidani
