                    Fanfiction   
                What say you   
                Just push play   
                Archive   
                Likes
                Thoughts of Kal →
                    House of old fanfic and new stories
                        twitter.com/kalendraashtar: 
                        8 months ago  (313 notes)
                            #Magnificent Strangers
                            #Part IV
                            #Remission
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #tw: cancer
                            Fanfiction - Magnificent Strangers
                            Just one more chapter after this one, guys. I hope you see it through with me. X Special shout out to @holdhertightandsayhername​, who always tells me to believe in what I have to tell.Part I , Part II, Part IIIMagnificent StrangersPart IV - Remission
Some
events press into our lives with such strength, they effectively cleave it into
two: the before and the after.A
war. A divorce. The birth of a first child. The invention of electricity. A
vicious car accident. Being kissed by James Fraser for three
consecutive days, with little interruption. Before kiss; after kiss - my deliciously punished lips the line separating the
two. If
snogging Jamie could be considered an Olympic sport, I would definitely be a
proud gold medallist and world-record holder. I would wake up at dawn and
relinquish even dark coffee for some dedicated training. The man was made to be
kissed and I was born to kiss him, two destinies converging in a
saliva-swapping encounter. Besides
kissing - and some exploratory fondling, mostly done on top of layers of
clothing - not much has happened.
Jamie respects me in an endearing and somewhat infuriating way, and I haven’t
mastered a way to tell him I want to be
respected a little less, or with far less clothes on. He has read my
fanfiction, so he knows I’m not averse to the fine art of sexing. He is taking
his sweet time and driving me insane. I
don’t want to be treated like I’m fragile. Even when I know I might be, just
a little. On
this No-Chemotherapy Wednesday, I’m
sitting on Jamie’s plush couch watching him play the saxophone. He is executing
a solo cover of Yellow, and I feel
like my insides are rapidly liquifying into a golden-coloured smoothie of love,
desire and awe. He is creating a kind of magnetic Coltrane alchemy; it’s
an almost voyeuristic experience to watch him bend over the instrument lovingly
and turn his breath into jazz. Jamie
learned to play the sax early in his adolescent years and became quite
accomplished, up until the time he relinquished it to pursue a career in
military service. I cooed in delight the first time I went to his house and noticed
the instrument’s case laying sadly on the corner of his living room. He
hadn’t played since his diagnosis, because he had no music left in him. But now
he plays for me almost every day. As
I watch him perform, I want to tell him I put on good black lingerie, inspected
my legs and armpits for any miscreant hairs and dabbed expensive perfume
between my breasts. The beautiful contradiction of strength and tenderness he
applies into his skilled fingers tightens everything inside me, until I’m taut
and desperate. He
finishes his rendition and I applaud him wholeheartedly, fascinated by the
glint of sweat on his handsome brow. He pulls me into his lap and kisses me
soundly. “Come
here, wee Viking.” He says hoarsely, still a little out of breath,
gripping my waist tightly. “Hmmm,
ye smell sae good today.”“Do
I?” I say innocently, brushing my lips against his on a tease. “Just
my usual herbal soap and maybe some residual curry from last night.”
                                Read more
                        1 year ago  (335 notes)
                            #Dark Shines
                            #Part IV
                            #Conversations With Cats
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #dark mood
                            #Criminal Profiler vs. Witch
                            Fanfiction - Dark Shines
                            Part I, Part II , Part IIIDark ShinesPart IV – Conversations
with CatsEdinburgh was to him a plagued city, not with the stench of disease
and the hurt of hunger, but with the pain of memories. While John Grey drove the car, humming softly along with one of the
most recent pop songs playing on the radio, Jamie’s eyes followed the ghosts of
his own previous life passing by the window. There, at the door of that crowded
pub, he had been a lad of twenty-five, celebrating the great achievement of
being selected to the ranks of the MI5 as a profiler, a pint in his hand bought
by one of his many mates. Then, his life had expanded majestically, and he had
been completely oblivious to the fact that he was merely riding on the back of
a long wild snake, that would coil and pounce and bite him with poison. Ten years later, sitting in a car paid for by the Yard, Jamie
wished he could go back and pay that gullible young man a pint; maybe say
farewell to himself in a way, take a second look at his own heart.I need to get the fuck out of this place.“Are you sure you don’t want me to come too?” John asked, parking on
an empty spot on the side of the street. “We could play bad officer, good
officer. Well, from what you’ve told me, I’m sure I could appear waymore pleasant and likable than you to the little witch.”“It’ll be fine.” Jamie smirked, grabbing his coat before he left the
vehicle. “Keep working on a possible connection between the victims, Grey. I’ll
call ye later.” The fair man playfully saluted him with two fingers, before he
set the car into motion again, leaving Jamie to identify the right door on the
well-maintained street. The night’s air was cool and moist like an open-mouthed kiss, and
Jamie rubbed his hands together as he climbed the few steps to the number 13th
of Nightingale Way. Flower beds and short bushes side-lined the entrance,
abundant yet tamed, with a cacophony of scents from sweet grass to lavender,
from star anise to aloe. He pressed the doorbell button of the apartment 3C and waited
patiently, until a buzzing sound announced the opening of the latch’s
mechanism. When he finally completed the ascent to the third floor, almost
breathless in spite of his good level of fitness, Claire Beauchamp’s head
peeked curiously from the door. It was as if he was rediscovering something
strangely familiar after a long absence, when one can’t exactly remember what’s
the reality of its likeness, and what is construct of longing and imagination. “Oh.” She raised her brows, the corner of her lips twitching
rapidly. “It’s you.”
                                Read more
                        1 year ago  (369 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful II
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #Arc II
                            #Part IV
                            #Brunch
                            #ICYMI
                            Fanfiction - Something Beautiful II
                            kalendraashtar:Not safe for work, church, drinking hot tea or reading in the same room as family members (if everything works out as intended). Much love to you all. XSomething Beautiful Arc I, Ficlet I, Ficlet II, Ficlet III, Ficlet IVPart I, Part II, Part IIISomething Beautiful IIPart IV – BrunchJamie had been absent for a week, called away by his only mistress (duty),
to teach a course at Dorset’s HM Coastguard Academy. During that time of
forced longing, I was able to carefully determine what I missed the most about
him. There was the singular skill he possessed to take the piss out of
me, without ever being hurtful or callous – like the day he discovered an
old Care Bear costume (pink, fluffy, terribly embarrassing),
mistakenly placed inside one of the several card boxes I dispatched to his
place, when I moved in (I chased him around the house brandishing a pillow,
while he laughed sidesplittingly and called me Claire-Bear).There was also the gentle and mindful way he battled his single-caveman-for-so-long
instincts, making a concerted effort to pay attention to the details that irked
me or were significant to me - a preventive fold on the end of the duct tape,
to keep me from going ballistic trying to blindly find it with a stressed
fingernail; the soothing and low tone, akin to that of a professional
psychotherapist, he used to address me before I had my first cup of coffee in a
morning after a strenuous string of shifts; the music I enjoyed playing in the
background when cooking together, bare-footed and complicit in the kitchen,
butting our hips to the rhythm of the song; my quirky Sheldon-Cooper-like
trait of having a favourite (unchallenged, except for Adso) place on our now
shared couch. Those small loyalties were the declarations of love he never failed
to make me.There was the soft whimper he made when I quickly pulled the covers
to lie down next to him in darkness, coming home from the hospital - a slightly
grumpy sound, that was always followed by a long relieved sigh, when his hands
found natural purchase on my arse or flat low stomach. But the thing I missed the most about him was the way our
mouths didn’t quite fit when I surprised him with a kiss amidst laughter, my
lips against the scrape of his teeth, uncovered by the exposed shelter of his staggered
mouth. That edge-filled happiness, in lieu of a perfectly round and composed
thing (drool-free, painless without the clash of unprepared gums,
camera-ready), was my favourite way to taste him. Of course, there were other things I yearned for in his absence.
Jamie was generous with his touch, seeking me often for a brush of fingertips
or a tender kiss in whatever skin he could reach. It wasn’t always something
primal and carnal between us (although it was that, too) - he was a
master of gentleness and timing, understanding when I needed my body to be
roused by a knowing hand and when I needed my spirit softly caressed. While sex
had been a part of the human experience I deeply appreciated since my
adolescent years, with Jamie it acquired breadth, like some cartesian two-dimensional
diagram suddenly building up to a complete sphere. The knowledge attentively
gardened by him throughout years of friendship had translated into an uncanny
capacity to disassemble me, either with a swift movement of hips when he was already
deep into me or by not moving at all and just waiting for me to meet him
halfway. Continuar a ler
                        1 year ago  (369 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful II
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #Arc II
                            #Part IV
                            #Brunch
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Modern AU
                            #Rom-Com
                            #Friends Trope
                            #nsfw
                            Fanfiction - Something Beautiful II
                            Not safe for work, church, drinking hot tea or reading in the same room as family members (if everything works out as intended). Much love to you all. XSomething Beautiful Arc I, Ficlet I, Ficlet II, Ficlet III, Ficlet IVPart I, Part II, Part IIISomething Beautiful IIPart IV – BrunchJamie had been absent for a week, called away by his only mistress (duty),
to teach a course at Dorset’s HM Coastguard Academy. During that time of
forced longing, I was able to carefully determine what I missed the most about
him. There was the singular skill he possessed to take the piss out of
me, without ever being hurtful or callous – like the day he discovered an
old Care Bear costume (pink, fluffy, terribly embarrassing),
mistakenly placed inside one of the several card boxes I dispatched to his
place, when I moved in (I chased him around the house brandishing a pillow,
while he laughed sidesplittingly and called me Claire-Bear).There was also the gentle and mindful way he battled his single-caveman-for-so-long
instincts, making a concerted effort to pay attention to the details that irked
me or were significant to me - a preventive fold on the end of the duct tape,
to keep me from going ballistic trying to blindly find it with a stressed
fingernail; the soothing and low tone, akin to that of a professional
psychotherapist, he used to address me before I had my first cup of coffee in a
morning after a strenuous string of shifts; the music I enjoyed playing in the
background when cooking together, bare-footed and complicit in the kitchen,
butting our hips to the rhythm of the song; my quirky Sheldon-Cooper-like
trait of having a favourite (unchallenged, except for Adso) place on our now
shared couch. Those small loyalties were the declarations of love he never failed
to make me.There was the soft whimper he made when I quickly pulled the covers
to lie down next to him in darkness, coming home from the hospital - a slightly
grumpy sound, that was always followed by a long relieved sigh, when his hands
found natural purchase on my arse or flat low stomach. But the thing I missed the most about him was the way our
mouths didn’t quite fit when I surprised him with a kiss amidst laughter, my
lips against the scrape of his teeth, uncovered by the exposed shelter of his staggered
mouth. That edge-filled happiness, in lieu of a perfectly round and composed
thing (drool-free, painless without the clash of unprepared gums,
camera-ready), was my favourite way to taste him. Of course, there were other things I yearned for in his absence.
Jamie was generous with his touch, seeking me often for a brush of fingertips
or a tender kiss in whatever skin he could reach. It wasn’t always something
primal and carnal between us (although it was that, too) - he was a
master of gentleness and timing, understanding when I needed my body to be
roused by a knowing hand and when I needed my spirit softly caressed. While sex
had been a part of the human experience I deeply appreciated since my
adolescent years, with Jamie it acquired breadth, like some cartesian two-dimensional
diagram suddenly building up to a complete sphere. The knowledge attentively
gardened by him throughout years of friendship had translated into an uncanny
capacity to disassemble me, either with a swift movement of hips when he was already
deep into me or by not moving at all and just waiting for me to meet him
halfway.
                                Read more
                        1 year ago  (200 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #sneak peek
                            #brunch
                            #part IV
                            #Something Beautiful II
                            Sneak peek
                            Here’s a wee skeak peek of the next Something Beautiful chapter, that I hope to post this weekend!Jamie had been absent for a week, called away by his only mistress (duty),
to teach a course at Dorset’s HM Coastguard Academy. During that time of
forced longing, I was able to carefully determine what I missed the most about
him. There was the singular skill he possessed to take the piss out of
me, without ever being hurtful or callous – like the day he discovered an
old Care Bear costume (pink, fluffy, terribly embarrassing),
mistakenly placed inside one of the several card boxes I dispatched to his
place, when I moved in (I chased him around the house brandishing a pillow,
while he laughed sidesplittingly and called me Claire-Bear).There was also the gentle and mindful way he battled his single-caveman-for-so-long
instincts, making a concerted effort to pay attention to the details that irked
me or were significant to me - a preventive fold on the end of the duct tape,
to keep me from going ballistic trying to blindly find it with a stressed
fingernail; the soothing and low tone, akin to that of a professional
psychotherapist, he used to address me before I had my first cup of coffee in a
morning after a strenuous string of shifts; the music I enjoyed playing in the
background when cooking together, bare-footed and complicit in the kitchen,
butting our hips to the rhythm of the song; my quirky Sheldon-Cooper-like
trait of having a favourite (unchallenged, except for Adso) place on our now
shared couch. Those small loyalties were the declarations of love he never
failed to make me.There was the soft whimper he made when I quickly pulled the covers
to lie down next to him in darkness, coming home from the hospital - a slightly
grumpy sound, that was always followed by a long relieved sigh, when his hands
found natural purchase on my arse or flat low stomach. But the thing I missed the most about him was the way our
mouths didn’t quite fit when I surprised him with a kiss amidst laughter, my
lips against the scrape of his teeth, uncovered by the exposed shelter of his
staggered mouth. That edge-filled happiness, in lieu of a perfectly round and
composed thing (drool-free, painless without the clash of unprepared gums,
camera-ready), was my favourite way to taste him. Something Beautiful II - Part IV - Brunch
                        1 year ago  (430 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #Spinster
                            #Part IV
                            #Rom-Com
                            #Modern AU
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #friends trope
                            Fanfiction - Something Beautiful
                            Fear not lovies, there’s no new chapter tomorrow! ahah. I’ll give you some days to breathe after this one. Thank you for reading! XPart I, Part II , Part III, Part IVSomething BeautifulPart V – SpinsterFor my investigative efforts I had to
get creative, since I highly doubted I could find a pair of knickers with an identifying
tag, brazenly forgotten between the cushions of Jamie’s couch. Jamie was too
well-mannered and good-hearted to brag about any sexual prowess; but I knew he had
close friends in his workplace, and men reunited tended to wag their tongues looser.
Every year the emergency department of Aberdeen Royal Infirmary did a session with HM Coastguard’s Search &amp; Rescue team, to update on first
response trauma techniques and to dust off any cobwebs from their basic first
aid training.  I volunteered immediately when
my superior announced the coming gathering and strolled inside Jamie’s
headquarters wearing my smuggest smile, which matched beautifully with my Medical Emergency jacket. I waved cheerfully at the men present, most of them familiar faces
from previous meetings and outings with Jamie, and nonchalantly padded over to
Gavin Hayes’s desk, one of Jamie’s best mates in the force, and the weakest
link I had previously selected. “Gavin!” I greeted him with genuine excitement, patting him on the
shoulder. “How are you? It’s lovely to see you!”“Hello, Claire.” Hayes smiled, somewhat taken aback by my uncanny
enthusiasm. “Jamie didna tell me ye’d be the one handling the course today.”“Well, he doesn’t know.” I winked, sitting on the edge of his desk
and crossing my legs prettily, silencing any self-awareness protests. “I wanted
to surprise him. Is he around now?” I turned my head rapidly, as if I suspected
Jamie could be peeking behind my back; in all truth, I knew he was giving
instruction to some green recruits at the pool and would arrive just in time
for the training event. “Not yet.” Gavin confirmed, sliding his chair slightly farther away
from me, a fierce blush appearing on his cheeks. Although married since age
twenty, Gavin Hayes wasn’t immune to some well-applied charm from a double-X-chromosome
vixen. 
                                Read more
                        1 year ago  (331 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #Part IV
                            #Glasgow
                            #Rom-Com
                            #Modern AU
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #friends trope
                            Fanfiction - Something Beautiful
                            Part I, Part II , Part IIISomething BeautifulPart IV – GlasgowThe thing about Frank was that he was
the first man who didn’t seem bothered or threatened by my intellect or my
marked independent streak; in fact, he seemed to find those traits somewhat
endearing.Throughout high school I had been
confronted with some suitors, charmed by the generous curves I developed early
on and by my no-nonsense nature, but they tended to lose interest as soon as
they spent more than a couple of dates with me. 
“You don’t need me”, one had
confessed after I pressed him against a wall, my knee dangerously close to his
groin, “men like to be needed”.  Even boys that were my friends told me I was
an alpha-female, a deeply
unattractive quality from a dating perspective (immature and insecure idiots, all of them).When I read Frank’s long essay about Elizabeth Tudor, Gloriana, and her
fascinating ruling years, I was convinced that he respected women who held
their own. He paid attention when I talked, laughed humorously at my quick
comebacks and didn’t criticize me for trying to do things on my own. And that,
combined with his polished speech, brooding semblance and graceful manners
lured me in completely. I didn’t need him,
and he seemed to be just fine with that. But the thing is - he didn’t need me, too. 
                                Read more
                        2 years ago  (434 notes)
                            #Scalpel &amp; Needle
                            #Part IV
                            #Sin-Eater
                            #Arc II: Deep Tissue
                            #Surgeons AU
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            Fanfiction - Scalpel &amp; Needle II
                            Scalpel &amp; Needle (Arc I: Incision), PreviouslyScalpel &amp; Needle IIPart IV – Sin-Eater5 years agoJamie half-opened the door, curious about the voice softly humming
inside the locker room. His heart tap-danced on the space between his lungs,
inviting them to breathe joy along with the unsteady rhythm. In the last few weeks he had noticed a reluctance about her anytime
he was near, as if he had turned contagious and she feared to be mortally
infected. It was a cautiousness of touches and glances, more than open animosity.
He had spent countless nights wondering what might have caused such a rift
between them and, more importantly, how to correct it. Because when the light coming from the window of the locker room hit
her face, carefree and relaxed singing along a song only she could hear, James
Fraser knew he would love Claire Beauchamp until asystole. He didn’t know the
cause of his death yet, but he already knew who would be on his mind.  He was sure she would be able to make him
smile, even then. The small earring in her helix, bearing a white stone, glinted in
the sun and Jamie craved to place his mouth on top of it, kissing her there, on
the edge of cartilage and woman. If he opened the door completely he feared he
would become irrevocably inebriated – her creamy skin underneath the blue
scrubs, her soft voice, her quick sharpness - a state made torturous by the
need to disguise it. “Beauchamp.” Jamie eventually called out, his voice sounding
strangely normal in the warm room. He strolled inside, closing the door behind
him. “Did the surgery went well, then?”“Ah, Fraser.” Claire
looked at him with raised brows, slightly suspicious, as if defying him to
admit he had been spying on her. “It went very well. Mister Raymond will make a
full recovery.”“I’m glad.” Jamie rolled his shoulders casually, leaning against the
locker next to hers. Her proximity made him tense sometimes, his body always on
the verge of engaging – on fight, love, storms
between them. “Ye ken what they say about the man, aye? The nurses and
such?”“I’m not as familiar with
the nurses as you, Fraser.” The female surgeon replied pointedly, neatly
folding her surgical cap. “He is a patient needing my help and that is enough
for me.”“Ach.” Jamie hawked in his Scottish boom. “They say he is a sin-eater. A verra powerful one at that.”“A sin-eater?” Claire wrinkled her forehead in confusion. Jamie
longed to brush those lines away with the tip of his fingers, maybe attempt at
drawing them with sharpened pencil, immersed in the shadows of a bedroom.“Aye.” He nodded sheepishly, offering her a lopsided smile. “A
sin-eater is capable of devouring sins, absolving the soul of another. They
carry them from that point on, so the person can be free and find redemption.”“Scottish lore, is it?” Claire snorted, amused at this naiveté, quickly
checking her phone for new messages before placing it in her bag. “Nah.” Jamie shook his head, distractedly playing with the bell of
his stethoscope. “He isna Scottish. But I find it quite interesting, anyway.”“Yes.” She smiled softly, her eyes the colour of slightly burnt butterscotch,
sweet with just enough bitterness to make it rich. “But isn’t that the role of the people who love us the most? Sharing our sins, helping us bear them, so that in
time we can learn to live with them?” Claire shook her head almost imperceptibly,
a faint – sad - smile still on her
lips. “Not that I would know anything
about that.” She patted his arm in
goodbye – too rushed, too fleeting - and strode towards the door. “Either
way, Mister Raymond is on a liquid diet at the moment, so I wouldn’t go on a
killing spree if I were you. No eating for him until his bowel decides to move
again.”Present timeClaire knocked on the door, trying to ignore the little whisper of
the key of his apartment inside her small bag. The door between them had
closed, in more ways than one, and using the key was a step she wasn’t prepared
to take. Silence. Stillness. She practically banged the second time around,
hearing a small rustle inside the apartment that indicated that either Jamie or
Adso were present and accounted for. As the lock was slowly opening – with
enough hasps for it to look like the gate of a prison – Claire had to admit
that, given the necessity of thumbs for such a task, probably the human
inhabitant was somewhere to be found beyond the door.Jamie’s appearance hadn’t changed much in the
week that separated them from their last meeting, when he had confessed the real
depth of his brokenness. If anything, he looked very much unkept and battered,
his short hair unpleasantly perspired, his shirt wrinkled to a point where it
would have discouraged even the fiercest iron. “Claire.
Ye’re here.” He said with surprise at the sight of her, his blue red-rimmed
eyes dilating like the pupils of a cat in the dark. His speech was a tad
slurred, rolling the syllables with a gusto that couldn’t entirely be
attributed to his proud Scottishness. He smelled of stale sweat, something
salty like algae exposed on the low tide and spilled whiskey. Stinking drunk, indeed.“So it seems, Fraser.” Claire replied dryly, raising her brows. Fraser was safe, whereas Jamie was not. Jamie was a name that meant something else, visible only when her
barriers were down, when their breathings synched in the dead of night and the
world seemed to sigh along. Adso appeared at the door, peeking from behind
Jamie’s significantly skinnier legs, with big pleading orbs. Claire could have
sworn he was about to smack his owner’s calves and roll his eyes in protest for
being abandoned to deal with such a reprehensive human being.“I tried to call first.” She hesitantly strode
inside the apartment, after Jamie had signalled for her to enter. “But you
didn’t pick up your phone and your house number seems to be disconnected.” Her
observant eyes noticed several broken pieces of furniture and pottery, shards
like lines of ants travelling on the floor, and the landline had been ripped
from the plug – from the hole on the wall, she would say it had been quite a
violent affair. Claire conjectured if Jamie simply felt more at ease amidst
chaos in those days. Familiar. “Redecorating are you?” She joked,
carefully pushing aside some wreckage with the tip of her foot. “Something like it. Went minimalist.” Jamie
replied faintly. He was watching her intently, as if expecting her to vanish in
the next few seconds. There were at least four empty beer bottles in the coffee
table and probably other testaments of liquor nestling in the garbage bin.
Sobriety was a state in which ghosts tended to dwell.“I’m not here as your – your lover.” She said the word harshly, with
fresh resentment prickling her tongue. “I’m here as a friend - and as your Chief.” Claire pursed her full lips,
fixing a point slightly above his right shoulder, that would give a
satisfactory impression of looking straight at him. “Besides, I was worried
about Adso.”“I take good care of the wee cheetie.” Jamie protested,
although the assertion of his capacities for pet-parenting wasn’t particularly
enhanced by the fact that he could barely stand up straight without stumbling.“Well, he bathes himself at least.” Claire retorted, crossing her arms. “Your
vacation time ends the day after tomorrow. If you want to step inside my
surgical department again, I’m advising that you seek therapy.” She inhaled
sharply. “Mandatory therapy, to be
more accurate.”“I dinna need therapy.” Jamie glared at her, his eyelids partially closed,
wakefulness weighing heavily on him. She could sense the pull of him, like a
magnet or a black hole, pulling her to a place with no gravity, no rules. “I just need –““Don’t.”
Claire hissed, raising a warning finger. She knew what he was about to say, as
if he had drummed it with his fingers, his tongue, his blood, deep into her eardrum. You. I just need you. “You
need to heal yourself, so I can be properly angry at you. You need to come back while you still can.”“I dinna have a map, Claire.” He whispered
drunkenly, although the words resonated as honest between them. A man lost
between the debris of his old life; trying to navigate backwards against the
roaring surge that stubbornly propelled him towards the abyss.  “Fortunately for you, I have an excellent sense
of direction – and therapy is the way forward.” Claire assured, more softly
than she intended. “You need to take a shower while I pack you a bag and
accommodate Adso to go as well. You’ll both stay at my place for some time.”“Yer place?” Jamie furrowed his brow, his face
the colour of overnight oats. “I canna. It’s no’ fair to ye.”“I’m not inviting you to my bed.” Claire explained haltingly, grabbing a couple of bottles
to carry to the trash. “Things between us have
changed. You’ll stay in the guest room. Besides, I have to save the entire city
of Edinburgh – we’re in danger of an alcohol drought very soon, if you keep
this up.”“Why are ye doing this? Ye should be far away
from me.” The male surgeon leaned against the wall, incapable of remaining
firmly grounded on the floor without an aid. “I betrayed ye. Betrayed yer trust. My weakness – disgusts me.” If Jamie could crawl out
of his skin, Claire unquestionably believed he would in that moment. He would
march around, skinless, exhibiting
the frail thing within.“You hurt me – yes.” Her voice quivered, as she scooped Adso to place him in the
carrier. Her back was blissfully turned away from Jamie, so he couldn’t see her
face. Like boiling water, parting and swelling with emotion, so close to becoming
mist only to pour down again. “I won’t pretend that I fully understand what you
went through and how you bonded with people who shared the same journey. This
is not forgiveness.” She breathed
deeply, air hitching inside her airway. “But I meant what I’ve told you, that
last night together before you were gone. I might have told it only once; but
for me it was the same as if I’ve said it forever. And that makes me responsible
in seeing you safe.” I love
you. “I have broken
yer heart.” Jamie whispered, his head tilted back. “And I dinna know how to
mend it, in spite of what I promised ye.”“You can start by going into the shower.” Claire
gulped, swallowing the tears that formed in the corners of her eyes, that left
her so willing to open her heart and cradle him inside. She busied herself around the living room and
bedroom, discarding garbage and collecting items he might need while he stayed
with her, overhearing the distant noise of the shower running. Claire
stubbornly closed the eye of her mind against the vision of his body, former or
present. It had been a vessel to come together – tenderly, playfully, lovingly, entirely - but now was just another
vehicle for Jamie to punish himself.A loud racket coming from the bathroom caused
her to run to the door like an arrow, ignoring Adso who meowed in outrage from
his closed carrier.  In his altered state Jamie had lost his balance
while trying to reach the towel and - amidst a rainfall of soap, shampoo
bottles and foamy water – had fallen against the tiled floor, cutting his bottom
lip which bled profusely.  “Fuck.”
Claire swore, kneeling next to him on the floor. She expediently examined his
pupils and searched his scalp for any further damages. “Couldna have said it better myself.” Jamie
stammered, looking dazed. His lip was swelling visibly.Within moments, Claire had managed to prop Jamie
up into a sited position against the sink, scavenging the first aid kit to tend
to his mouth. She had preserved both of their modesties by placing a towel on
his lap, but their eyes were still disturbingly close as she worked. With a fluffy
clean towel, Claire dabbed the open wound, trying to ignore his bottomless blue
eyes, exuding love and pain enough to make her hands tremble. “How many
times?” Claire asked eventually, applying disinfectant on the wound. He
hissed in discomfort and she touched his forehead in gentleness. “How many
times did you kiss her?”“Just the once.” Jamie looked at the ceiling. Claire
bit her bottom lip, applying steri-strips to the wound – there wasn’t a suture
kit around, so it would have to do. “Why did you keep the photo?” Her fingertips
brushed the side of his cheek. “Of Mary?”“I have a tenderness for her.” He answered slowly,
searching her eyes. “Mary really was a good friend. But I kept it in case ye wanted
to see it – I think that most times imagining something is worse than truly knowing,
aye? I kept it so ye wouldna have to imagine.”“I see.” Claire glanced at him under her lashes.
“You told me you thought of never coming back. Why did you?”“I’m selfish,
Claire. I’m not brave enough not to see ye again. To touch ye, to kiss ye.” Jamie
whispered, tasting his admission and his own blood. “I’m not brave enough not
to want ye. And I’ve brought home hell for it.”
                        2 years ago  (308 notes)
                            #scalpel &amp; needle
                            #part iv
                            #mass casualty
                            #surgeons au
                            #outlander fanfiction
                            #modern au
                            Fanfiction - Scalpel &amp; NeedlePreviouslyScalpel &amp; NeedlePart IV – Mass CasualtyIt seemed like she had just closed her eyes; her tired brain had yet to achieve the deepest of sleeps, where true rest awaited, and dreams could begin. Her phone went off, a rendition of the Skye Boat Song echoing in the shadows of the on-call room. Claire quickly sat on the bed, feeling mildly disoriented and grasping for the lamp that sat on the nightstand of her own bedroom, several miles away. Cursing between teeth, she fumbled to unlock the screen of her smartphone and read the text – “999. All doctors to A&amp;E”.“Shit.” Claire rubbed her eyes for clarity and raised, quickly tying her shoelaces, her fingers pointlessly trying to compose her wild curls. After a prolonged shift – covering for a colleague who had come down with chickenpox, another blessing of having small children -, she had finally found a few hours to take a nap, only to be so grossly interrupted. “What happened?” Claire spotted John Grey, looking frazzled and worried, as soon as she entered the premises of the A&amp;E department.“Landslide on Arthur’s Seat.” He shook his head in apprehension. The woman gulped, knowing that a sunny holiday meant that the slope and adjacent park were bound to be filled with hikers and families, enjoying a day out. “All the storms made the ground too fragile. It seems there was a school field trip taking place, so lots of children were there. Two dead on the scene, they are bringing at least twenty wounded here.”“Christ.” She covered her mouth and closed her eyes, sending a wordless prayer to those whose life had ended so unfairly, so suddenly. “Where do you want me?” John was in charge of the A&amp;E department, so he would be handing down work to every surgeon and doctor available.“I’ll be doing triage at the door.” He informed her, gnawing at the back of his pen, furrowing his brow in concentration. “You can help Jamie handling the surgical cases. And please, Claire, no arguments – this is not the time. I mean it.”“Right.” She gave him a weak smile and started the difficult task of collecting her hair on a functional bun, that would allow her to work without any obstacles. Jamie was at a corner, putting on a blue gown over his scrubs, looking as unnerved as any of them. Claire walked to him, catching a pair of latex gloves along the way. “I’m with you.” She said simply, when he noticed her presence nearby.  He nodded and said nothing.There was a moment of perfect silence in the A&amp;E, when everything was so still the air seemed unbreakable. All doctors waiting, collectively holding in their breaths, searching for the wail of coming sirens, fearing the moment they would hear them. Fearing the defeats awaiting in a day when the sun had lured people to a river of suffocating mud. It was the calm before a perfect storm.“Hold him steady!” Claire asked Jamie several hours later, attempting to clamp a spurting artery on a man’s thigh. The only colour left on his face were his freckles, shining bright on his pale skin, and he roared in pain. Jamie locked his powerful arm around him, keeping him in place while she worked. “It’s done. He can go to the OR now.”“Nicely done.” Jamie complimented her, while scribbling on the chart before they moved on to the next patient. She shrugged off his words and approached the bed where a scared-looking boy laid, his head turning left and right like a fan, clearly in search of someone able to soothe him.“Hello.” Claire addressed him softly, recovering his chart from the frame of his bed. “How are you feeling…Ewan - is that right?”“Yes, ma’am.” The blonde boy replied almost inaudibly, his eyes downcast, while he twisted his hands in nervousness. “My left arm hurts.”“Well, ye’re lucky then, because Doctor Beauchamp here happens to be an expert in arms. Aren’t ye?” Jamie looked at her from the corner of his eyes, with just enough mischief glinting there. “Absolutely.” Claire threw him a warning glance, starting to gently palpate the boy’s elbow. “I’m Claire and this is Fras – James, I mean.”“Are ye Welsh, Ewan?” Jamie asked in a conversational tone, while evaluating the pulse on his feet. “Yer accent seems like it.”“I am, sir.” The boy seemed to bury himself on the mattress and almost jumped when Claire reached his wrist with her probing fingers. “Ewan!” A dark-haired man appeared, looking utterly terrified. The boy emitted a slight whimper and almost dove into the man’s arms, hugging him fiercely. “Are you alright?”“His arm is definitely broken.” Claire said with sympathy, stroking his perspired yellow hair. “He’ll need some cast, but fortunately no surgery.”“Claire, may I have a word?” Jamie asked gravely. He was holding Ewan’s chart and he had gone alarmingly pale. “We’ll be back presently, lad.”“What is it?” Claire asked exasperated, once Jamie dragged her to a corner of the A&amp;E. The room seemed to be an angry hive, where furious bees tried not to produce honey, but to heal the injured. “I just want to finish this, Fraser, so I can get a shower and –““The lad is on the missing persons list.” He pushed the chart under her nose, where a red alert had been stamped once the boy had been identified. “His kidnapping was reported almost one year ago – taken from his mother by his own father, according to what’s written here.”“That man?” She babbled, shocked, turning her head to look in their direction. The boy was clearly relieved to see his father, trampling himself with the urge to tell him every detail of his misfortune, and the man gazed at his son with what could only be described as adoration. “We need to protect the lad.” Jamie insisted in a hoarse voice. “The authorities are busy dealing with the landslide. But when his entry was registered here they were alerted, so soon enough they will come for him.”“Alright.”  Claire agreed. They marched back to the boy’s bedside, noticing how Ewan looked at them with fear in his eyes.“Sir, we need to ask ye to step aside.” Jamie commanded in an assertive tone. There was subdued fury there, to be sure – but he was keeping it in check in order not to scare the child. “As soon as we are finished, someone will get ye”.“You know.” He sighed, his hands trembling while he brushed his son’s arms. “Please, let me explain –““Yer crimes can’t be explained, sir.” Jamie hissed, his blue eyes fierce and menacing. Claire realized that never, not in the utmost heated and ugly discussion they ever had, he had looked at her that way. With real anger, real distaste.“Can’t they?” The man’s lips were compressed into a thin line, but he looked unashamed. “I knew Ewan’s mother since we were children. I loved her even before I knew that feeling had a name. We married young and were very happy for a time.” He glanced at his son, who was playing with the corner of the sheet, looking entirely heartbroken. “She was clever, so she studied hard and became a successful lawyer. I didn’t have much of a head for school, but I was always good with my hands, and worked as a mechanic. But the life we led individually, eventually made as grow apart, so we divorced when Ewan was four. She had sole custody, but I was happy with seeing him at every opportunity we had.” He swallowed hard. “She married again, to an important judge. Two years ago, I discovered that he mistreated Ewan when she wasn’t around – going as far as to hit the boy. When I told her, she didn’t believe me – nor him.” He held the boy in his arms, both silently crying. “When a child – your child – tells you something so terrible, no matter the cost, you have to believe it. No matter how hard the knowledge will make your life.”“So ye took him.” Jamie said softly. “To protect him.”“Yes. I knew their position would never give me a fair chance through justice. I asked him if he wanted to leave Cardiff with me, even if it meant living a dangerous life, and before I blinked he had his backpack ready.”“Officers are coming for you.” Claire breathed deeply, a sob caught in her throat. “There is no way to stop it now. When his real name was used, a red flag was raised in the system. You need to escape. Now.”“Claire, they canna –“ Jamie protested. She turned to look at him, her shoulders square, her eyes fierce.“Are you a coward, James Fraser?” Claire hissed under her breath. “Because you know this is the right thing to do. If you won’t help me, I’ll do it alone.”“I was going to say that they canna leave without us treating his arm.” Jamie hissed back, two cats twisting for dominance. “I’ll take them through the personnel’s hallway and see to his arm while ye stall the police.”“And how am I supposed to do that?” She crossed her arms, taken aback, biting her lip in anxiety.“Be creative.” Jamie advised teasingly, wiggling his brows, while he transferred Ewan to a wheelchair. Fortunately, every nurse and doctor in the vicinities was entirely too busy to notice their suspicious activities. The three men had just disappeared around the corner when two policemen strode inside the A&amp;E.   “How can I help you, officers?” Claire asked sweetly, fluttering her lashes.***“Are they gone?” Claire asked him in a low voice, sitting near Jamie on the floor of the locker room. A couple of hours had passed before she went looking, not wanting to raise any speculations. The hospital was in shutdown since Ewan’s disappearance and the authorities were fine-combing every nook and cranny. She had endured ten stressful and uncomfortable minutes of reproach for allowing them to escape under her nose. “Aye.” Jamie sighed and closed his eyes, his head leaning back against the wall. “What did ye do to keep the agents away?”“Charm.” She replied laconically. “And when that failed, maybe I pretended to faint.”“We actually make a good team.” He opened one eye to look at her, his face acquiring a comical frown, waiting for her horrified reaction.“You are still a cocky bastard.” Claire said sheepishly, but she couldn’t entirely avoid returning his smile.
                        2 years ago  (117 notes)
                            #Outlander Secret Santa 2017
                            #Scotia
                            #Part IV
                            #as AU as they come
                            #Myths AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Marlo
                            Fanfiction - Outlander Secret Santa 2017
                            Hey @marlosbooknook, we are back at it now that Christmas is almost upon us! As always, thank you @moghraidhjamie for making this time of year that much more special in this fandom. PreviouslyScotia (IV)“Who are ye?” Jamie asked, feeling
simultaneously curious and outraged by the way the woman had called him “mortal”, never having thought of his
mortal condition has something inherently nefarious.“Who are you?”
She replied mordantly, the trees nearby quickly becoming covered with white
frost, looking like green unappetizing cakes with a glacé topping.“Ye are addressing James, King of Scots, Guardian of
Light, Bearer of the Dragonfly.”
Murtagh intervened, squinting suspiciously in the direction of the strange
woman. “Are ye a devil of the woods seeking our blood to quell yer thirst,
shapeshifter?”“I have no interest in Scotia’s offspring.” She flared her nostrils in distaste, looking
remarkably like the doe she had been just seconds ago. “Nor in the blood of old
folks.” Her wry smile made Murtagh flinch, his hand roaming dangerously to the
hilt of his dagger. “Are ye no mortal yerself, then?” Jamie asked,
giving his guardian a swift glance, a silent warning to stay his hand. “Not in the way that you are.” Her lips, the color of rich raspberries, moved to form an
almost imperceptible smile. “You may call me Claire, although others know me as Sorcha.”“Sorcha
– the Queen of Frost?” Surprised,
Jamie tried to retrocede – for the queen who ruled over snow and rain was notorious
for her temper, allegedly commanding ice shards against her enemies in battle -,
and in his higgledy-piggledy behavior his back went directly against a massive
oak. With a loud thump, a mass of snow precipitated over him from the twigs, nestling
in his hair and seemingly turning him into an old man, hair stark white. Spitting out lumps of ice, Jamie watched – half
fascinated, half furious – as Claire laughed hysterically, a light summer drizzle
falling around her, creating a cautious rainbow between the trees. It seemed
that her mood was deeply connected with the environment and weather around her –
Jamie prayed to the myriad of gods at his disposal for the grace of never
creating a storm within her. “I’m glad ye find it so thoroughly amusing.” He
said between teeth, grimacing as the snow began to melt against the back of his
neck, dripping along his skin in a steady river.“I think the white suits you best.” Still
whooping with laughter, Claire shrugged. “I don’t really fancy redheads.”“We think it a blessing.” Murtagh tried to
reprimand her, crossing his arms in contempt. “To be kissed by the fire that keeps
the night restrained.”“Not a benediction to us.” Her smile died, and
the drizzle stopped abruptly. “It was your redheaded ancestor that drove Beira away from her kingdom, her family and
her powers.” Claire’s amber eyes held Jamie’s gaze and he saw her sadness and
her rage, as well as her resentment. “She was my aunt – when she failed to
return, allured by that man, I had to
ascend, and my entire existence changed.”“Why are ye here, in our world?” Jamie tilted
his head, admiring the way her hair curled in brown, black, copper, honey,
strawberry and blonde, incredibly rich and alluring in its indefiniteness.“The dragonfly has been flying inside my dreams
of snow for a while. As rulers, it is our blessing and curse to see things
others cannot.” The queen admitted grudgingly, adjusting her blue cloak, lined
with white fur. “Dark creatures started to roam our grounds, daring to step
into our sacred woods. I had to come and see for myself, how the two events are
connected, if at all.”“Aye. I think ye were meant to find me.” Jamie
fought to keep away a teasing smile, sheer horror unveiling on her face. “My
seer saw you – well, a silver doe just like yerself, if I may say so – rushing
to meet me. Together we are supposed to locate An Lia Fàil and push darkness away again.” He hesitated, but
resolutely decided to avoid any mention on how their lives seemed to fully entwine
from that point onwards; and especially on how he supposedly had to become
fluent in the language of her heart. “I don’t suppose she has given you directions
on how to do just that?” Claire raised a brow and a mild wind blew against his
back, not as much a caress and a light shove. “Maisri told us to find the river with no end.”
Murtagh smoothed his beard. “But I dinna see a drop of water nearby, let alone
a bloody river.”“You, humans of this world, forgot things in
order to shield your hearts and find joy within the limited number of your
days.” Claire moved around, touching a trunk nearby. She sighed and her shoulders
hunched. “But you forgot too much, too fast – for it’s not water that runs with
no end from this point on.”“What is it, then?” Jamie said softly, pained
with the wish to caress the slopes of her neck, as beautiful and white as a
winter’s dawn. “Sorrow.”
She said, just as softly.
                        3 years ago  (271 notes)
                            #a lifetime of her
                            #part iv
                            #it’s only the air you took and the breath you left
                            #twenty-six
                            #modern au
                            #jamie and claire
                            #outlander fanfiction
                            #angst
                            #john mayer
                            #split screen sadness
                            Fanfiction - A Lifetime of Her (Part IV)
                            Part IV – “It’s only the air you took and the breath
you left”Twenty-sixI rose from bed, avoiding to look at
Laoghaire’s naked form next to me, as I covered her with the sheet, blindingly
white in the shadows of my room. She was curled on her side, her face so serene
and peaceful that vomit came up my gullet, sour and acrid against my tongue. I hustled to the bathroom, were I quietly and thoroughly
vomited shame and regret mixed with the few contents of my stomach. Afterwards
I sat next to the toilet on the cold floor, soothing and reviving like welcome
water, my body aching from retching – and the struggle to exorcise the deep
feeling of being tainted. With the back of my hand I wiped my mouth and dragged
myself to the sink, where I wished I could plunge to drown everything into oblivion.
Laoghaire was a good company, a caring and
bonny lass – clearly in love with me from the very start, when we had met at a
pub in the Royal Mile. We had been
going out intermittently for the last few months - more from a feeling of defeat
than true interest on my part. My body had responded to hers, as she kissed me
and whispered words of adoration – for some time, I had allowed myself to
believe in the fantasy that, in time, I would be able to love her. But each day
she demanded more with her body and her doe eyes – and I increasingly withdrew
from her. Even sex – a bridge that we had used in the start to serve as common
ground – was becoming mechanical and, from my part, heartless. I felt irrationally
angry when I kissed her and guilty when her body rose to mine – my hands were
rough on her hips, as I punished her with blind kisses. I couldn’t love her, as
much as I tried to force myself – but I couldn’t let go, a drunkard addicted on
company, fearing a relapse of loneliness.And now I was acutely aware that it was not her
fair hair I sought when waking up. The eyes I searched for when I was
spiralling towards release, had been gone from my sight for two years. When I cradled
her against my chest, I longed for another crystalline laugh, always on the
verge of shattering, of breaking me. The curve of her waist didn’t fit my hand –
didn’t invite me to dance against it. Sometimes when I was inside Laoghaire, too lost
in the explosions of millions of synapses, I had to swallow a moan that formed
with another name. I called out to her silently,
thrusting against a woman that left me homeless. Afterwards, I felt a traitor,
a dirty man with no honour, promising redemption but failing to really pursue
it. I got out of the bathroom and padded to the big
window, where cascades of water streamed down the glass, nameless rivers
destined to die before reaching the sea. Outside, the world seemed to dwell
only in darkness and water – and I belonged there, with the wicked things that
bore no light.I had seen Claire three times – that I could
feel so strongly about her, so irrevocably certain, sounded like the ravings of
a mad man. Still, her eyes had a spell that talked of my name and her lips
harboured the secret of my fate. I desired her body alright – but truly burned for her soul, for the mind-blowing
connection we had formed when innocence still allowed us to be unrestrained.I knew she had likely married – a golden band
on her finger, that didn’t speak of her nature, where the absurd diamond had
been – and moved away to America, where I’d never find her. Most likely, she
would never belong to me – and yet, I was hers.
That she may never claim me, made no difference whatsoever – I’d belong to
Claire Beauchamp as long as I drew breath.Laoghaire sighed and rolled over, her body
searching mine in the quiet hours of night, yearning for closeness. I wouldn’t
return to bed – to her - instead I’d lay awake on the couch until sunrise. I
had no solace to offer her, when I was tormented with the absence of the one I
truly wanted.I darkly contemplated the words I’d use to tell
her in the morning – how her eyes would open in shock, discovering that our
last kiss had arrived unannounced. Perhaps she’d hit me – I honestly couldn’t
disagree with her entitlement to do so. She would try to bargain, to ask for a
little less – incredulous at the thought of us parting. But I couldn’t rob her
anymore of what was not mine to take – I couldn’t offer her more meaningless
promises, mere scraps of the love I’d give to Claire so willingly.“Where are ye?” I whispered against the misted
glass, towards the woman I loved so senselessly, hidden outside my view, somewhere
in the haze.***I saw Claire two weeks after ending my
relationship with Laoghaire, as I walked home after teaching the last class of
the day. For a moment, as I glared at her - hurriedly walking on the sidewalk
across the street - I believed I was having a hallucination. A welcoming trick constructed
by my mind, playing on the edge of madness.    I called her, but my voice was strangled,
barely a whisper escaping my lips. I was paralyzed, struck by how lovely she
looked with her hair escaping from a half dismantled ponytail, her casual
clothes enough to highlight the delicate forms of her body. Before I could think any further I was
following her down the street, set on an unavoidable course by my life’s
singular linchpin. I’d get glimpses of her amongst the crowd, avoiding a hazardous
cyclist or glancing at a window display – mainly of book stores. But she
carried on, following her invisible path, clearly decided to quickly achieve
her destination. I pursued her, numb to occasional shoves and elbow
collisions, deaf to imprecations by other bystanders – my whole being fixed on
her. Claire.Eventually she entered a residential building
and I followed her – thanking God for the door left open, the latch slightly
rusty - arriving in time to watch the elevator stopping on the fourth floor.I chose to slowly climb up the stairs, allowing
myself some time to think of what I’d say – everything that came to mind
sounded creepy or ridiculous, even without actual words. I still hadn’t formed
a coherent idea when I reached the landing. There were two doors there – both old but
reassuringly solid, with no visible identifications. I was breathing fast – not
so much from the physical effort, but from the insane rhythm of my heart. I stood there, undecided, until I heard a soft
mew inside the apartment on the right. Not knowing why, I approached and
knocked on the door. She opened the door almost immediately, as if
she had been waiting someone. Her alluring face seemed tired – with deep dark
circles around her inquisitive eyes – and there was a sadness there that hadn’t
been present before, a cloud covering the moon of her wit, her flame smothered
to a quiet spark. The wedding ring of my nightmares was there – real as punch
in my wame, an extravagant fetter someone had placed to imprison a white raven.
“Claire.” I breathed out – almost sobbed.  “Jamie.” She whispered, her eyes wide open. I
noticed her nails were short, as if she had bitten them until blood ran, while
she nervously pulled at the sleeves of her blue sweater. A slender cat sat near
her feet, looking curiously – amiably? - at me.“I’m sorry, I -” I tried to explain, but slowly
– tentatively – she walked to me and her body went almost slack, relaxed, her
forehead leaning against the curve of my neck. I instinctively held her,
shielding her with my arms - her body was trembling against mine, her barely
supressed devastation propagating through me like an earthquake. I noticed she
was scrawny as a starved bird. “You found me.” Claire said in a husky voice,
opening a secret window to whisper into my heart. “I think…I had been calling
out for you.”
                        3 years ago  (300 notes)
                            #Beauchamp Riots
                            #Part IV
                            #Morning Glory
                            #The End
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Adso!
                            #Spot the sentence told by Claire that actually belongs to Jamie in canon
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            Fanfiction - Beauchamp Riots (Part IV)
                            It’s the final chapter!! And it’s here! I’ve
actually written this small story in less than a week!! I’m beyond humbled,
emotional and grateful for all the comments and feedback. This truly only makes
sense because you guys are here to share it with me. I hope it ends on a good
note! Without further delay – see you on the other side! &lt;3All my fanfictionPart IV – Morning
GloryI woke up to a small wail that made the strings
of my heart resound like a guitar. He was already moving beside me in bed – I could
feel his warmth slipping away, my body bent in a mirror shape of his own. I
didn’t open my eyes, content with feeling the heart-breaking tenderness of his
thumb tracing my earlobe. “I’ll go.” He whispered in my ear. “Rest some
more, mo nighean donn.”I hummed, knowing that he would be back to me.
He always did. I could already anticipate his powerful hands, insinuating themselves
bellow the hem of my nightgown. I would be instantly aroused by his touch, the
smell of morning glory on his skin, highlighted by our daughter’s sleepy scent.
It was the smell of love – and I was lucky enough to be bathed in it each dawn.
After a few moments, I listened as he strode
across the room again, raising the sheets to lie down next me.“She’s sound asleep.” He kissed the back of my
neck. His voice was husky – unhinged after a night of silence. “Have I told ye
today how much I love ye?”“Hmhm.” I smiled. Jamie was brushing my wild curls
away from my shoulders, so he could more easily access the exposed skin of my
shoulder. “I believe you haven’t.”“I love ye.” His hand caressed me and slid to
nestle against my breast – possessive, famished, loving. “Yesterday, today and
tomorrow. And all the wee hours in between.”The alarm clock went off and I almost jumped
out of bed like a rocket ready for launch. I turned it off, rubbing my eyes to
persuade sleep to go away from me – I felt boneless and exhausted after a week
of nightshifts and very few hours of sleep. And when I did sleep, I dreamt –
vivid images of a lost life, that left me aching and irascible – so much so
that I became weary of falling asleep altogether.I mechanically moved to open the water tap for
a shower, turning on the coffee machine on my way. I brushed my teeth and
dressed with the precision and discipline of a trained soldier. It was easier
that way – to function and appear normal, not allowing my mind to drift to
unwanted places. I needed to maintain a routine, to keep going – or I might be
doomed to stand still for the rest of my days. Jamie didn’t marry Geneva - that much I knew. Ian
phoned me, the night after our argument at the pub, to let me know Jamie had
called off the engagement. I recalled that moment – when I had felt so hopeful
and joyful – with anger and frustration. I was, of course, expecting him to
drop at my door – but he hadn’t. Instead Jamie had gone home, to Lallybroch, to
heal and get away from all the gossiping and harshness – where he still remained
to my knowledge. I hadn’t seen him or heard from him in over a month. I looked at my image in the mirror with
detachment. My hair was unruly – but that wasn’t a novelty – and deep dark
circles surrounded my eyes. I looked half as tired as I felt. Adso came and sat
by my feet, looking at his reflection with mild interest – by then he knew
better than to try to tackle that weird cat that moved in front of him. He
touched my leg with his paw and meowed in sympathy. I grabbed my purse, mentally listing the
groceries I needed to acquire at the supermarket, and opened my front door. He was standing there, his eyes downcast, his
hands hidden in the pockets of his coat. I noticed his hair was shorter than
the last time I had seen him. How long had he been there, summoning courage to
knock at a door that used to be always open for him?Jamie breathed deeply and raised his eyes to meet
mine. “May I come in?” He asked softly.I honestly thought for a second of closing the
door on his face, but something in his tone forced me to be gentler. I nodded
and silently fell back and allowed him in. Adso padded towards us and greeted Jamie in his
usual fashion – purring and rubbing himself against Jamie’s legs, begging for
his attention and long fingers. “Must all males in my life be such obnoxious
traitors?” I grumbled, throwing Adso a resentful look. “We don’t like him
anymore, remember?”With a mixture of gestures and monosyllables, I
invited Jamie to sit on my kitchen table and placed a cup of strong tea in
front of him. I sat on the opposite side of the furniture – as removed from him
as possible. We both sipped our tea in silence, playing a
game of hide and seek with our eyes. “This has been lovely.” I finally said, setting
down my cup with a tump. “But unless you actually have something to say, I have
places to go and things to do. Not all of us can go into hiding and leave our entire
lives behind.” I watched as my words hit him, the invisible wound formed underneath
his skin – we were fortunate that words didn’t leave bruises, or the both of us
would be disfigured. “Do ye remember…” He started slowly. “After the
bombing, when I left the hospital and came here to convalesce?”“I do.” I replied softly.  I did, of course. I had been covering the ER
the day of the attack – sometimes I could still close my eyes and see the image
of endless corridors filled with people screaming, blood and tears streaming
like rivers of sorrow, my trembling hands continuously stitching and holding
people together with small threads of kindness. I was still shaking with
tiredness and horror when they called me – from that exact same ER – as mine
was his top listed contact. I had felt like screaming and crying when I saw
his back – but I hadn’t. I remembered the strong lines of his back, the grace
of bone and muscle, the softness of his skin under my fingers when I occasionally
had touched him there. But I had locked away my feelings of loss and
surrendered myself to the task of nursing him back to health. It hadn’t been easy – he was in serious pain, although
he tried to hide it under cheerful remarks and crude jokes. He was incredibly weak
and depended on another person for every small task – even wiping his own arse.
When he had completed the initial skin grafts, I had taken him to my house and
continued to nurse him there. I think, perhaps, that was truly the moment I
knew I loved him. There is something terrible and wonderful in seeing someone
stripped of every mask of civility; of every notion of propriety or ego.  The man that remained under every one of those
layers was still Jamie – and as deserving of my love as the handsome young man
that had saved my broken heart in a pub. “Sometimes I would come awake from the pain.”
He proceeded, searching my eyes. “It was unbearable. It tainted my dreams and I
thought I’d go mad from it. But then I saw yer face, lying next to me, half
smiling in your sleep…” Jamie gulped. “So serene and beautiful. It soothed me
enough for me to bear it another day.”“Why did you decide not to marry Geneva?” I
asked, fighting against the tears that had formed in my eyes at his words. “Ye were right.” He smiled, a sad smirk that
made me well up even more. “She wasna right for me – or I for her, for that
matter. Marrying her would be deceiving us both.”“So, you realized that you weren’t meant to be.”
I stood up and placed my empty cup in the sink, bracing it for support. “Is
that it?”“Not all of it.” He whispered, moving his
shoulders against the fabric of his jumper. “I’m in love with ye, Claire – have
been, from the moment we talked in the pub five years ago. Maybe even longer,
when I first saw ye there, so unware of how remarkable ye are.”“And yet you needed me to tell you that.” I bit
my lip, turning my head to face him. “You were about to marry another woman!”“Aye.” He said, his voice coming out stronger.
Firm. Decided. “I had lost all hope that you’d ever be mine. So I accepted this
small thing, a pale shadow perhaps, thinking that it might be best for the both
of us. Do ye know what is to live each day so close to the person ye love, yet
not being able to touch her or hold her, having to pretend ye feel nothing?
Having to talk and smile when inside yer head ye’re screaming so loud ye can
barely think?”“Yes!” I exclaimed. “I bloody well do know,
James Fraser!”“Aye?” He raised and grabbed my arms, his hands
hot enough to sear my skin. “And why did you tell me all those things in the
pub, Claire?”“Because I wanted you.” I whispered, letting
him see on the glass of my face how honest I was. “More than I ever wanted anything
in my life.” He had never been good at hiding his emotions from me – his face
changed, like deep dark waters lighted by a moonlight beam. “But ye only realized that when I told ye I was
engaged?” He licked his full bottom lip. “Are ye no confusing the fear of losing
me with really wanting me?”“No.” I asserted. “I was just blind before – so
afraid things would change. But I’ve always known.”He nodded and smiled tenderly, his palm coming up
to touch my face, tracing me from brow to chin with moving lightness.“I’m sorry I dinna come sooner, mo nighean donn.” He slowly leaned over
and rested his forehead against mine, so close I could feel the warmth of his
breath, the smell of earl grey tea and the slight tremors that coursed through
his body. “But I was so ashamed. I dinna ken how to tell ye that I’ve been such
a fool. How to amend for making such a mess of things.”“I was so angry at you.” I was shaking too,
from relief and strong emotion. “I thought you had left me.”“I could never leave ye, mo ghraidh.” His finger caught a curl and entwined it on my hair,
keeping me close to him. “No man can live long without his heart.”He tilted his head – a movement so
imperceptible that no one but me would have noticed – and I knew he was
searching for a way to meet me. My hands travelled to his short, but still
softly wavy, auburn hair and nestled there. I already knew the ways of his
heart – and was confident that it would take me a very short time to be as
knowing of the mechanisms of his body, so complicit with mine.  We kissed then, passionately, with a desire and
longing that had been five years in the making. There are plenty of beautiful
descriptions of a kiss in literature – the feelings, the slow burning dance,
the fight that comes from the will to surrender – but they would never be
enough. Not to describe what it is to be kissed by Jamie. Not to portray what
it is to be made anew. ****“Calman
geal.” Jamie whispered, brushing
my hair away from my face. We were lying down on my bed, bared, facing each
other. I had spent the last few hours busy with the pleasant job of discovering
his beautifully made body. I felt a sore happiness in every limb, as if my arms
and legs could open up and laugh from joyfulness. “That one is new.” I kissed the sensitive skin
inside his forearm. “What does it mean?”“White dove.” He smiled, as his hand fondled my
waist, quickly making its way to the curve of my bottom. I was right – he did like it quite a lot. “I never knew a
woman could be as beautiful as you, my own.”“Hm.” I hummed, satisfied. “I’ll accept that -
even if I still think you were actually calling me something funny.”“Ah.” He laughed. “Perhaps tomorrow we can have
a proper first date? I’ll take ye out to dinner somewhere nice.”“I think we have exhausted every possible first
date and conversation a long time ago.” I bit him on the chest, close to his
nipple. “This seems like a perfect date for us, if you ask me.” “I bet there are still things ye don’t know
about me, tough.” He kissed me thoroughly on the lips. “We could talk about
those. Maybe dance a little afterwards - put those waltz steps to good use.”“Is this a challenge, James Fraser?” I blew
away a curl. “I thought I’d spent the last hour showing you how much I do know you.”“So ye did.” He rolled on his back, pulling me
to straddle him. “But I want ye to have everything ye deserve, Claire. I want
to go out and shout to the world that ye’re mine now, as I am yours. I want to
do those silly things, like holding your hand in the darkness of the cinema and
send ye flowers. I want ye to be surprised when I steal a kiss from ye and find
every new way to love ye. We lived a lot together, already – but it ain’t
enough. It will never be enough, Sassenach.”“Please do, Jamie.” I winked and rolled my
hips, taunting him. “Or I might just riot.” The
End
            Theme: Linear by Peter Vidani
