                    Fanfiction   
                What say you   
                Just push play   
                Archive   
                Likes
                Thoughts of Kal →
                    House of old fanfic and new stories
                        twitter.com/kalendraashtar: 
                        1 year ago  (426 notes)
                            #Something Beautiful II
                            #Something Beautiful
                            #Arc II
                            #Part VI
                            #Skinny-dipping
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #Jamie POV
                            #Rom-Com
                            #Friends Trope
                            #Duck &amp; Sassenach
                            Fanfiction - Something Beautiful II
                            This chapter was the first thing that took shape in my mind for Arc II. It was greatly (and shamelessly) inspired by my time in Austria early this summer. I so hope you enjoy this Jamie POV. ❤Something Beautiful Arc I, Ficlet I, Ficlet II, Ficlet III, Ficlet IVPart I, Part II, Part III, Part IV, Part VSomething Beautiful IIPart VI – Skinny-dipping JamieWhen my life would come to an end, what would be in that kaleidoscopic
film playing incessantly on my mind, that summary meant to show the substance of
my existence?Her face glaring at me curiously when I came out of that pool. The
way we raced through the airport terminal, because I was late from all those
carefully avoided farewells, her tears suspended on the air. That small eternity
when I thought I was going to die from a hammering heart and instead I kissed
her. The delicate and moving feel of her skin against mine when I circled her, knowing
it to be her way to surrender. How she kneeled in front of me for the first
time and I thought I’d lose myself like an inexperienced wean, just from the knowledge
of her desire upon me. Her naked morning-star shoulder blades, beautifully-made,
as she entered that lake ahead of me. But also, the day I realized those things might never come to pass.I had been sleeping fitfully. It’s hard to find good rest when someone
else shares the inside of yer head, carelessly banging doors and peeking inside
your carefully closed drawers. Claire had taken residence there for over six
months and that neighbouring relationship was getting increasingly more difficult
to play with any degree of coolness – I had been cooking up a confession,
mainly because I feared I’d go absolutely whacky from unspoken love.“I’ll just go there right now.” I exhaled, studying my own bewildered
reflection on the mirror of my room close to the university, feeling more than
a little chunderous. On the background, The Temptations crooned about “What
can make me feel this way? My girl (my girl, my girl)”. “And tell her.
Straight out wi’ it. Nothing more, Fraser. Huh, right now.”I mussed up my damp hair in nervousness, picking up and putting down
objects before I could realize what I intended to do with them. I grabbed my backpack
(completely forgetting to place my training kit inside) and headed outside,
with a confidence that was entirely faked. I was already five-hundred yards
away from the dorm, when I realized I was donning unmatched socks, one emerald green
and the other coloured like terracotta.“Shite.” I grunted between teeth, before running back to
change. Most of that small itinerary was spent babbling to myself (“Blimey,
what am I even going to tell her?” I scratched my uneven stubble in impatience.
“Hey lass, are ye into time travelling? Because I see ye in my future.” A
mortified moan escaped my lips. “Why would I let myself out of the house? I’m
hopeless.)”After an hour in which I abandoned and returned to my small flat
more than half a dozen times, I had finally made my way to Claire’s apartment
building, where she and Geillis dwelled. “Hey Claire.” I trained in a
casual low voice, trying to sound mature and interesting (and like I fuckin’ had
it together). “I think ye should know that I – I-“
                                Read more
            Theme: Linear by Peter Vidani
