                    Fanfiction   
                What say you   
                Just push play   
                Archive   
                Likes
                Thoughts of Kal →
                    House of old fanfic and new stories
                        twitter.com/kalendraashtar: 
                        9 months ago  (388 notes)
                            #Magnificent Strangers
                            #Part III
                            #Not Jane Austen
                            #Modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #Outlander fanfiction
                            #tw: cancer
                            #Just two more chapters to go
                            #ICYMI
                            Fanfiction - Magnificent Strangers
                            kalendraashtar:Part I , Part IIMagnificent StrangersPart III - Not
Jane AustenOn
Chemotherapy Tuesday, I feel
uncharacteristically hopeful, not necessarily in a cure for my illness, but in
a resolution for that debilitating feeling of disconnect. When you’re
diagnosed, it feels a bit like yielding a very sharp knife, cutting all the
tethers that anchor you to life, to a sense of self and to normalcy. For once,
life is calling me from that place, instead of looming death. When
I enter the room, he is already there, this time cradling his own tablet like an
infant’s head in his big palm. I wave in greeting and he smiles back
momentarily, but keeps reading, thoroughly enthralled. Pterodactyl (small, quirky and slightly unnerving)
comes to plug me in and I expect Jamie to initiate conversation, just as he did
the day before. His eyes are fixed on the screen, wide and still-lake blue, and
by the look on his face he might be reading The
Book of Revelation.I
try to distract myself by looking at the treatment room’s decoration - or lack thereof -, remarkably naked of
gimcrack and gewgaw, with a sole picture of a sunny field occupying the large
wall. I guess there’s no point in trying to make such a place more suitable for
the living; cancer ruins any attempt at proper feng shui. “No
chit-chat today, huh?” I tease after a while, hopelessly eager to be standing
in the sun of his smiling blue eyes yet again. “‘Tis
the most engrossing read, Sassenach.”
He nods gravely and smiles in a way that makes my solar plexus do a full spin,
his handsome face like a pinch in between ribs, straight into the frailty
amidst bone. A dark suspicion that he’s reading the complete works of LadyCurlyWig_1 creeps in, and I’m both
mortified and elated. I
purse my lips, decided to be the coolest
of cool, eyeing the drip of chemo as I tap my index finger against my thigh
rhythmically. My eyes keep seeking his face (the scar on his temple the size of my thumb’s nail, the patches of
blonde stubble on his jaw, the tiny mole on the back of his right ear) and
I notice the puzzled frown of his brows as soon as it dawns, the way his mouth
opens and closes in quick succession.“Your
cogs must be rusty,” I point sheepishly, playing with my earring. “I
can hear them turning from over here.” Continuar a ler
                                Next post
                                Previous
clarkprincess liked this                                    bby-got-books liked this                                    youremyalways47 liked this                                    outlanderlush liked this                                    veryfaintveryhuman reblogged this from kalendraashtar and added:                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                There are a lot of quotes I love in this chapter especially (bruised lips from the absence of a kiss, be still my heart...                            bleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeh liked this                                    9catlover9 liked this                                    swillsy1711 liked this                                    thefraserwitch reblogged this from kalendraashtar and added:                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                I’m sooooo behind on catching up on this fic. I take back what I said about TFIAS vibes. Kal, John Green should be...                            thefraserwitch liked this                                    suevanea3 reblogged this from kalendraashtar                                                                                                                                                                                    decadentherringtrashmuffin liked this                                    myheartislike-astallion liked this                                    sawatz46 liked this                                    uzed2boutlanderchar said:                                             
                                Each afraid, given their unknown outcome of cancer - giving in with hope, love and desire. Kal you write this, so we’ll.                            uzed2boutlanderchar liked this                                    tequiladoble liked this                                    brandeewine liked this                                    gazingoffsouthward liked this                                    andthencamemacdubh liked this                                    sburen liked this                                    bkst-tutu1b liked this                                    a-man-da-jo liked this                                    roeann liked this                                    jdin20 reblogged this from morcimina                                                                                                                                                                                    hakunamatata067 liked this                                    zale48 liked this                                    dat0q liked this                                    beatricemcrae57 liked this                                    burnsismyjam liked this                                    maybettomorrow liked this                                    levenrambinfanclub liked this                                    gamsbo said:                                             
                                Sad but with touch of hope… thank you                            gamsbo liked this                                    yasminl reblogged this from internallydeceased                                                                                                                                                                                    rockabybabe liked this                                    tallulahlove liked this                                    internallydeceased reblogged this from kalendraashtar                                                                                                                                                                                    internallydeceased liked this                                    snowmountains74 liked this                                    westwind49 liked this                                    patwheat liked this                                    irishharper liked this                                    kalendraashtar posted this                                                                        ')[1].split('')[0];
if(window.tumblrNotesLoaded)if(tumblrNotesLoaded(notes_html)==false)return;var more_notes_link=document.getElementById('more_notes_190213052448');var notes=more_notes_link.parentNode;notes.removeChild(more_notes_link);notes.innerHTML+=notes_html;if(window.tumblrNotesInserted)tumblrNotesInserted(notes_html);}};tumblrReq.open('GET','/notes/190213052448/1DRS948HT?from_c=1578976598',true);tumblrReq.send();return false;">Show more notesLoading...
            Theme: Linear by Peter Vidani
