                    Fanfiction   
                What say you   
                Just push play   
                Archive   
                Likes
                Thoughts of Kal →
                    House of old fanfic and new stories
                        twitter.com/kalendraashtar: 
                        8 months ago  (361 notes)
                            #Magnificent Strangers
                            #Part V
                            #Bonny Smile
                            #The End
                            #tw: death
                            #outlander fanfiction
                            #modern AU
                            #Jamie and Claire
                            #tw: cancer
                            #thank you &lt;3
                            #Nat King Cole song Smile
                            Fanfiction - Magnificent Strangers
                            When I posted the first
chapter of this story, I told you it would make you laugh and be moved and that
is still my ultimate hope. While this last chapter for me isn’t about death, but
about life and love, I’m still putting a trigger warning on it. You can even ask
me or a friend what happens beforehand and then decide for yourself. This story
was a profound labour of love and I’m grateful for everyone who gave some of it back. XPart I , Part II, Part III , Part IVMagnificent StrangersPart V – Bonny SmileWe
have three good months after that. Jamie
is placed on a clinical trial for a promising new drug and I try not to inspect
him too closely for signs of its efficiency. There is an unspoken agreement
between us, since that day in Doctor Grey’s office, that he’d rather be my
lover for a minute than my patient for years to come. We
go on a series of dates, sometimes packing strolling, dinner, movie, drinks,
dancing, wild sex and tender lovemaking in a sole night, as if we are trying to
condense an entire lifetime into a span of unknown duration, but much shorter
than what it should have been. Every
so often we don’t sleep but touch each other from dusk to dawn, savouring long,
unhurried, hours of mutual satisfaction. Jamie makes me hot-and-cold desserts
every other night, tastes them straight from my mouth. I live things with him I
thought I’d only ever write about for others. We
go to Rome for a long weekend, plan for Hogmanay with mates and explore the
Highlands together. Jamie is beautiful and lively, his mind and wit sharp, but
his disease eats the little things. It gnaws at him in the middle of the Spanish Steps, when he has to stop
halfway up because he is breathless; it bites him during the night, when he
awakes soaked in unnatural sweat; it chews his hope, when he is formally
discharged from SAS, and he realizes
he is more than likely never wearing his uniform again. I’m
deliriously happy and permanently afraid, the two linked like a blossoming
plant and its parasite. I measure time through the growth of my curls, every
inch a memory shared with Jamie. 
                                Read more
            Theme: Linear by Peter Vidani
