            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing kerk_hiraeth's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  light
                    Hiraeth (pronounced [hiraɪ̯θ])homesickness for that to which you cannot return, or which may have never beenNov. 13th, 2019
                inner -->
    Previous Day
 | Next Day
        inner -->
                    Nov. 13th, 2019
Fics for 2019 # 001 ~ 'Til Death Do Us DieNov. 13th, 2019 05:08 am
    Okay,              so this was written way back in January and, after what has been; even for me, an excessively difficult year I have had to accept that I am never going to be able to get it looking right. I cannot use html and dreamwidth will not let me use rich text as I would wish.     Until I was typing this out again I did not realise the appropriateness of now trying again to post this; which you will understand if you read, at this time.     My eternal gratitude to the inestimable elisi, without whose support I might not be here posting this. This is the first of five very different fics I wrote back at the beginning of the year; various others are at different stages and may get posted before the year is out.          TITLE: 'Til Death Do Us Die       AUTHOR: kerk_hiraeth       FANDOM: Buffy the Vampire Slayer (S6);       LENGTH: 200;       CHARACTER(s): Spike; mentions of (in order) Angel(us); Darla; Dru(silla) &amp; Buffy Summers;       'SHIPS: Spike/Buffy; Spike/Dru; Angel(us)/Darla; Angel/Buffy;       A/N: Spike in contemplative; slightly inebriated and bitterly self-pitying, probably after another empty encounter with the re-animated, and depressed, Buffy.              Always been my head canon as to where Spike was when the Armistice was announced; especially since reading a fanfic (long since sadly lost as far as I can tell) which told of Darla in Sarajevo in June of 1914; deciding not to eat a manic Serbian terrorist, because she had a vision of the chaos his shot that rang around the world would cause.             If anyone recognises that fic and can send it me I would be so happy as I don't believe I ever printed it up.           He'd wondered aloud once; twat that he was, whether being bitten by women was why they; group they, were so different from the other Vampires he'd met.    Only time the great pouffe had called him a poof.     Still did sometimes, wonder; now he was banging the Slayer.    Plural.    Chuckling, he chugged back a beer; reminded him of that grand Belgian stuff got him plastered back in November of '18.    He was still Spike; not William the Bloody Awful Poet, who could quote every verse he'd composed in over a century of not writing them.    Angelus had been an artist in his own way; Darla too.    Not even Dru had been in his class though; all too tactile; even Dru, to appreciate his abstract nature; buried deep as it was.    Never explained why Angelus had been so willing to play pussy whipped by a woman whose intelligence could have turned them all inside out.    Never seemed the type.    Then he'd gone ass over tit for the Slayer.    It was clear to him then why Angel would still die for Darla; why, if it came to it he ~ they'd both die for Buffy.    Abandon her too.    For Dru; his Ripe; Bloody Queen.            'What is the Jay more precious than the Lark       Because his feathers are more beautiful?       Or is the Adder better than the Eel       Because his painted skin contents the eye?       O, no good Kate! Neither art thou the worse       For this poor furniture and mean array.'         ~ This is part of a speech from Act IV, Scene III of William Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew. The pocket-sized book collection I own entitles it 'The Mind Enriches', but it's the second that catches my mind's attention and inspires Spike's alcohol-fueled train of thought here.       That and this passage from an early Star Trek novelisation; back when some could compete with the best science-fiction around back then.        “ 'Mnhei'sahe, ' “ she (Lt. Janice Kerasus) said promptly. “Captain, I'm sorry, but you would ask me to render one of the most difficult words in the language (Rihannsu, or what the unimaginative PTB at Paramount insist on calling Romulan). It's not quite honor – and not quite loyalty – and not quite anger, or hatred, or about fifty other things. It can be a form of hatred that requires you to give your last drop of water to a thirsty enemy – or an act of love that requires you to kill a friend. The meaning changes constantly with context, and even in one given context, it's slippery at best.”            (Ch. 10; My Enemy, My Ally by Diane Duane, 1984)              kerk_hiraeth    
Current Mood:   thoughtful
Current Location: USS Rattray
Current Music: Autumn Poems on BBC Radio
Tags:
btvs s6,
fanfic,
fanged four,
ficlet,
fics for 2019,
pov,
spike
Link
2 comments
Reply
                        inner -->
    Previous Day
 | Next Day
        inner -->
                 inner -->
         inner -->
                    inner -->
Profile
kerk_hiraeth
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
May 2020
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
     12
3456789
10111213141516
17181920212223
242526272829 30
31      
Most Popular Tags
amy pond - 2 uses
amy/rory - 2 uses
babylon 5 - 3 uses
btvs - 3 uses
btvs au - 3 uses
btvs s4 - 2 uses
buffy summers - 2 uses
buffy/spike - 1 use
daniel 'oz' osborne - 1 use
degrassi - 2 uses
degrassi next class - 1 use
doctor who - 3 uses
drabble - 4 uses
faith lehane - 3 uses
fandom - 2 uses
fanfic - 6 uses
fanfiction - 2 uses
femslash - 5 uses
ficlet - 8 uses
fics for 2003 - 2 uses
fics for 2009 - 2 uses
fics for 2010 - 2 uses
fics for 2018 - 6 uses
fics for 2019 - 4 uses
freedom - 1 use
friends - 3 uses
jesse - 2 uses
jodie whittaker - 1 use
matt smith - 2 uses
missing scene - 2 uses
new moon rising - 2 uses
nu who - 2 uses
oc - 2 uses
open_on_sunday - 2 uses
personal - 12 uses
poetry - 6 uses
politics - 2 uses
queer poetry - 3 uses
racism - 1 use
rory williams - 2 uses
rupert giles - 2 uses
shakespeare - 3 uses
tara maclay - 4 uses
the doctor - 2 uses
trans poetry - 3 uses
trans/non-binary - 2 uses
transgender day of remembrance - 3 uses
wee!amelia - 2 uses
willow rosenberg - 5 uses
willow/tara - 2 uses
Page Summary
Fics for 2019 # 001 ~ 'Til Death Do Us Die
Style Credit
Base style: Abstractia by chiming
Theme: Joy by nornoriel
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:31 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
