            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing meddow's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    meddowThe Time of Angels (Reply)
                inner -->
The Time of AngelsApr. 26th, 2010 08:05 pm
meddowI'll stick my hand up and say I was one of those people who did not like River on her first appearance. And, yes it had everything to do with another Companion. Silence in the Library/Forest of the Dead was Ten and Donna's last proper episode together, and there was River Song taking over the Doctor interaction that should have gone to Donna. And also, she knew the Doctor's name. Nobody knows the Doctors name (besides the Master, the Rani and I'd imagine Romana and all the other Time Lords). However, I freaking adore her now. She did not take over time that should have gone to Amy and the Doctor, and I love her relationship with Amy. Plus, I can't help but love anybody who orders the Doctor around like that. Still not that big on her knowing the Doctor's name, but I seem to have moved past it. Of note for the future: there was no big, 'You're Amy Pond' followed by a look of horror moment, which leads me to conclude that either 1. Amy's leaving the TARDIS is going to be nowhere near as awful as Donna's, or 2. the Moff hasn't figured out how Amy will leave the TARDIS.The Weeping Angels were nowhere near as scary this time, which, given that my flatmate gripped my arm so tight during Blink that I got bruises and I had to check my closet every night for a week for stone angels, was something of a relief, particularly since one thing that has changes since 2007 is that I now have a fantastic view of a graveyard from my bedroom window.One thing that the show has been lacking is a really good new monster that can show up every now and again to menace the Doctor. The Slitheen are hardly the new Cybermen. The evolution of the Weeping Angels is thus acceptable to me because it seems to be making them into a new iconic monster that can show up every few seasons to menace the Doctor and delight fans. They could be the new Cybermen. (And maybe one day in the future, we can pass onto the younger generations how we remember Blink and it was so scary, and they can all scoff). So yes, the developments that the Angels do kill people, and can in a way talk, and can come out of videotape like the creepy girl in the ring, and also have some evil plan for domination of the universe, all fine with me. I really want to know what's going on with Amy. At first I thought she may be turning into an Angel herself (and that they're like zombies, and the statues were the crew of the ship), but it with her hand not being stone, it just seems that they've messed with her mind.I think it's best to judge the two-parter as a whole, but a I really enjoyed this episode and I really hope that next week's episode is not the last of River.
Current Mood:   thirsty
Current Music: Crowded House - It's Only Natural
Tags:
new who
Link
4 comments
  From:
        Anonymous
          This account has disabled anonymous posting.    
          OpenID
            Identity URL:
            Log in?
        Dreamwidth account
            Account name
            Password
            Log in?
      If you don't have an account you can create one now.      
            Subject
HTML doesn't work in the subject.
            Formatting type
Casual HTML
Markdown
Raw HTML
            Message
               Notice: This account is set to log the IP addresses of everyone who comments.        Links will be displayed as unclickable URLs to help prevent spam.
                    inner -->
Profile
meddow
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
February 2014
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
      1
2345678
9 101112131415
16171819202122
232425262728 
Most Popular Tags
ashes to ashes - 19 uses
batman - 4 uses
battlestar galactica - 28 uses
being human - 5 uses
books - 7 uses
classic who - 36 uses
current events - 5 uses
doctor who fanfiction - 14 uses
fanfic recs - 4 uses
fanfiction challenge - 5 uses
fanfiction related - 12 uses
fanvids - 8 uses
film festival: aaron eckhart - 5 uses
glee - 4 uses
graphic novels - 3 uses
growing - 17 uses
guy candy - 4 uses
harry potter - 22 uses
harry potter movies - 12 uses
heroes - 39 uses
house - 12 uses
hp fanfiction - 23 uses
hp theories - 6 uses
icons - 4 uses
jack davenport - 11 uses
life on mars - 6 uses
linkspam - 3 uses
meme - 18 uses
meta - 11 uses
movies - 68 uses
music - 12 uses
new who - 131 uses
picspam - 16 uses
pimp - 6 uses
pirates - 15 uses
potc fanfiction - 10 uses
randomness - 14 uses
rants - 8 uses
sanctuary - 4 uses
sja - 24 uses
sport - 10 uses
star trek - 23 uses
stargate - 8 uses
television - 59 uses
the thick of it - 16 uses
the west wing - 7 uses
top gear - 3 uses
torchwood - 24 uses
vids - 6 uses
writing - 37 uses
Style Credit
Style:  by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:20 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
