            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing meddow's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    meddowWho, Torchwood, Football and More BAFTA Pics (Reply)
                inner -->
Who, Torchwood, Football and More BAFTA PicsJun. 12th, 2010 01:49 pm
meddowI have been so busy lately. I'm hoping to have a weekend in which I can catch up on things and write a bit of fic, maybe do a picspam. The problem with being busy is that it leads to be tired which lead to me doing not much of anything. Anyway, things that I've been meaning to post about all week:1. I realised that Vincent and the Doctor is Amy's Companion tries to change history to save a life/lives, just like the Aztecs (Barbara), Father's Day (Rose) and Fires of Pompeii (Donna), except that it was a different take on it as the Doctor for once was in on it (probably knowing they'd have no success) so there was no great debate. In a bit of drive by episode love, I have to say, as much as I love Vincent and the Aztecs (I quite like Father's Day too), Pompeii I still rate as my favourite, namely because I saw an exhibit on Pompeii earlier this year which included the plaster casts they made of people smothered by ash, and it's harrowing. Plus, Donna is utterly awesome to the point of making the naysayers finally shut up, Catherine Tate shows off why she is one of the best (if not the best) actresses to have played a Companion, and there's bonus Peter Capaldi.But also, and leading into another thing I'm going to talk about it, my personal fanon is that it's one of the major reasons why Children of Earth happened, as in, in my fanon is that I don't think it's a coincidence that the father of the Frobisher family which did not survive CoE is the spitting image of the father of the family that survived Fires2. I'm a bit hesitant about the new series of Torchwood that's been announced, for a number of reasons. I loved Children of Earth and was quite happy with it being a series finale, but also with the new series being set partially in America, I suspect that's lessened the chances of having Lois, Alice and Johnson join the team, or that we'll get a day in the life of Bridget Spears episode (okay, there was probably little chance of that happening ever, but it would be awesome  - maybe I'll just have to write fic).3. World Cup! World Cup! World Cup! I'm really into it this year because New Zealand's in it for the first time since the 1982. Oh, I so badly want us to score a goal. When the All Whites are inevitably knocked out, I'm going to have to go a find some random arbitrary thing with which to use to pick a team to support. Last time I rooted for whichever team came from the country IMO had the best food. I ended up supporting Italy quite a bit. 4. Forth and finally and because I can, ETA:  Gah. My photobucket account which is entirely used for fandom purposes somehow knows of my facebook page, which is all about RL, or at least my photobucket account is prompting me to 'like' it. 1. How does it know who I am on facebook? 2. Make it stop! I keep my fandom stuff and my life stuff very separate so not cool, internet. Not cool at all.
Current Mood:   geeky
Current Music: The National - Bloodbuzz Ohio
Tags:
new who,
picspam,
sport,
the thick of it,
torchwood
Link
2 comments
  From:
        Anonymous
          This account has disabled anonymous posting.    
          OpenID
            Identity URL:
            Log in?
        Dreamwidth account
            Account name
            Password
            Log in?
      If you don't have an account you can create one now.      
            Subject
HTML doesn't work in the subject.
            Formatting type
Casual HTML
Markdown
Raw HTML
            Message
               Notice: This account is set to log the IP addresses of everyone who comments.        Links will be displayed as unclickable URLs to help prevent spam.
                    inner -->
Profile
meddow
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Tags
Memories
Profile
February 2014
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
      1
2345678
9 101112131415
16171819202122
232425262728 
Most Popular Tags
ashes to ashes - 19 uses
batman - 4 uses
battlestar galactica - 28 uses
being human - 5 uses
books - 7 uses
classic who - 36 uses
current events - 5 uses
doctor who fanfiction - 14 uses
fanfic recs - 4 uses
fanfiction challenge - 5 uses
fanfiction related - 12 uses
fanvids - 8 uses
film festival: aaron eckhart - 5 uses
glee - 4 uses
graphic novels - 3 uses
growing - 17 uses
guy candy - 4 uses
harry potter - 22 uses
harry potter movies - 12 uses
heroes - 39 uses
house - 12 uses
hp fanfiction - 23 uses
hp theories - 6 uses
icons - 4 uses
jack davenport - 11 uses
life on mars - 6 uses
linkspam - 3 uses
meme - 18 uses
meta - 11 uses
movies - 68 uses
music - 12 uses
new who - 131 uses
picspam - 16 uses
pimp - 6 uses
pirates - 15 uses
potc fanfiction - 10 uses
randomness - 14 uses
rants - 8 uses
sanctuary - 4 uses
sja - 24 uses
sport - 10 uses
star trek - 23 uses
stargate - 8 uses
television - 59 uses
the thick of it - 16 uses
the west wing - 7 uses
top gear - 3 uses
torchwood - 24 uses
vids - 6 uses
writing - 37 uses
Style Credit
Style:  by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:19 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
