            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing melannen's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  light
Recent Entries
&gt; Recent Entries
&gt; Archive
&gt; Reading
&gt; Network
&gt; Tags
&gt; Memories
&gt; Profile
&gt; my jf account
&gt; previous 20 entriesLinksinterrobang studiosmelannen@journalfenmelannen@deviantartmelannen@librarythingnetwork
October 6th, 2020 02:04 pm - Broken cut tagsI didn't post about this at the time because I figured I was the only person who was laggard enough to have the problem, but apparently there are more of us than I thought, and not all of us were annoyed enough to figure out how to fix it?So, if cut tags on your journal have been broken since the summer, so that they no longer open in the page and you have to open in a new page, it is probably because you are still using a Core1 journal style you imported from LJ. When they made some updates to DW backend code recently, they accidentally broke javascript for Core1, which for most people mostly means the magic cut tags. (It probably also messes with expanding comment threads if you read comment pages in your style? I use site scheme there so idk.)This is not something I will blame DW for, because Core1 styles were obsolete ten years ago when DW was founded and mostly have never met basic web accessibility standards, and it is frankly impressive they still support them at all. (Why are you still using Core1 on your journal, you deadbeat*?? Has "update journal style" really been on your todo list for MORE THAN TEN YEARS???)Anyway, they are hopefully going to fix it in the next code push eventually. Meanwhile, there are two options: you can go to Change Style and pick a style that was coded this millennium. This fixes it for everyone, and also means you are using a style that follows at least some web standards.Or you can do what I did, stick stubbornly to your horrible ancient style that you've been using more than half your life, and go to the beta page and select "Turn ON beta testing" for "Temporarily revert updated journal page components" (I know it's counterintuitive to turn ON beta testing in order to turn OFF new features, but it's a workaround.) This will only fix it for you while you are logged in - other visitors to your journal in your style will still have broken cut tags. Then add dw_maintenance to your reading list, so you'll know when it's fixed and you can turn it back off.*also why is your style still Homestuck themed, what is wrong with you(16 comments | Reply)September 30th, 2020 11:34 pmI am getting really into Fat Bear Week this year. It's the first year the voting is off facebook, so I can participate! First rounds today! (Neither of them seem very close. They are, however, all excellently fat.)A vote that really matters because all the possible winners are the best. Fat bears!(Quick, someone nominate the bears of Katmai for yuletide before the deadline runs out tonight!)(12 comments | Reply)September 17th, 2020 08:25 pmI have been lurking some prompt memes lately, and I keep seeing "DNW: Dead doves" on anon kink promptsI don't..."Dead dove" means "this fic is clearly labelled and fully warned for, so if you open it you know what you are getting." DNW: Dead Dove means... that you want your fic to be badly tagged and unwarned so that you're blindsided by things? I don't understand.I guess I can see a meaning drift where people are reading "dead dove" to just refer to all of the content that usually needs to be thoroughly warned for, but I've seen dnw: Dead Dove on some pretty kinktomato-flavored prompts. "DNW: Dead Doves" on a prompt for dubcon incest is even less comprehensible than it would be generally.Does it mean "The only fucked-up content I want in my fic is the content that is already tagged in my prompt"? But that's what dead dove means. If you only want the fucked-up stuff that is clearly tagged you are in fact asking for a dead dove fic.Can fandom please, in advance of the winter exchange season, please just agree that "dead dove" is not something that makes sense to list in your DNWs? Please?(53 comments | Reply)September 13th, 2020 07:12 pm - cq cq cqi have discovered that I can set my phone input to morse code straight key = I am learning a new skill = I am not good enough for straight key yet luckily the default android morse keyboard is easier k(5 comments | Reply)September 4th, 2020 03:55 pmHi! I'm still here. It's been a time, huh.Right now my main joy in fandom is watching TOG fans on Tumblr slowly come to terms with how old Andy actually is and what that means, as someone who has been measuring human history in "Methos lifespans" for most of my adulthood. :D(33 comments | Reply)June 13th, 2020 07:22 pm - A Story About GamingThe closest I have ever been to being "a serious gamer" was the summer as a young teenager when I acquired a dollar-store CD with Over 1000! shareware games on it, and played through ALL of them. All of them. (Okay, there were some like Tetris that you couldn't really "play through", I learned to hate 3D FPS, and I got impatient pretty early on with some of the more persnickety text-based adventures, but basically: I gave at least a fair shake to ALL of them.)I found the CD recently while cleaning and was getting kind of nostalgic about that particular time and corner of gaming and how it had passed forever. I still think fondly of a lot of those old games, and I still think fondly of the experience of fighting through some of those games I don't think fondly of, and alas! the days of shareware CDs are gone forever....and then people started linking to the itch.io indy games Bundle for Racial Justice and Equality and I realized, self, this is as close as you will ever get to a modern version of that old shareware CD.So, dear readers, I bought it.And then I got really frustrated that there was no way to download my purchase except by paging through 1500+ games and doing it one-by-one?? It will take me hours just to do that! How am I going to make my new shareware CD!And then I started doing it and realized why they do not have it available as a single downloadable package. OMG. Devs these days need to learn how to AVOID BLOAT. I think I have only downloaded one game so far that would even have fit on that shareware CD BY ITSELF. Yes, graphics are better these days, but not that much better! And I seriously doubt many of these games have long fully-produced VR movie-quality cutscenes. They do not need to be multiple gigabytes in size. That CD had four Commander Keen games, Doom *and* Wolfenstein 3D on it....this has been your "kids get off my lawn" whine for the day.(I still have all the Commander Keen .exes, though I haven't tried to run them on Windows 10 yet. The largest one is just over three quarters of a megabyte.)(...does anyone know how to batch-download from an itch.io package?)(16 comments | Reply)June 11th, 2020 02:24 pmHi! Been awhile. Lots has been happening out there in the world, huh. I sort of went back to work at the start of the month, except there's no A/C in our building, so it's only sort of. Having all that time home really pointed up to me how much I HATE having to spend so much of my waking time forcing myself into some abstract mold of what a good employee is, even when I like the work (and doing some wfh has made it clear how much energy that I could be spending on work I instead waste on attempting to Be A Good Employee.)I stopped the post-every-day to fictional_fans thing I was doing when work started up again, because I knew my energy would nosedive, but then china_shop is hosting Write Every Day for June, and I've been doing that. One sentence a day, because I really hadn't written at all since Yuletide! I've never tried to write at that pace before - I've written in occasional spurts, and I've written to higher consistent daily goals, but not to one sentence a day. I actually really like it, and it's redirected the habit I'd already formed of "one short DW post a day". I can't fool myself into thinking I just don't have time, because it's one sentence. And I can't convince myself that I can't write because I'm in the wrong groove and it'll just be bad, because it's one sentence! Not the end of the world if it turns out to be bad! And I can't get discouraged that it's hard and going slow, because the point is one sentence. (I am averaging more like one paragraph actually, but some of them are very short paragraphs.) So anyway I have one-sentence-at-a-timed myself into finishing a ficlet that had been sitting around since last year, and I am going to try to keep going.Meanwhile today I also started my intoabar story, because it was time to stop delaying. The premise of intoabar is that two crossover characters meet in a public place like a bar or restaurant, and right now the hardest part is the concept of two strangers meeting in a place like a bar or restaurant. Such a strange idea.(11 comments | Reply)May 26th, 2020 11:51 pm - password manager1. There was an lj password breach. If you haven't changed your passwords since 2014, you probably should. (If you can't remember if you have, you probably should anyway.)2. It is leading to the usual spate of recommendations to use a password manager. So here, password manager proponents, here is your chance to finally sell me on one: what happens if you use a password manager, and then you are in a situation where you no longer have access to any of your devices, and are using a shared device where you can't install apps or extensions? What is the workaround for this? Are there password managers that could be used on a computer where you can't install things?The only thing I can think of is to make sure the email all your password recoveries go to has a password you actually know by heart. But it seems like at that point you have also managed to workaround the point of having a password manager.This may seem overly paranoid, but I work at a public library. We are the place people come when they have lost access to all their devices but desperately need to get into their email/social media right now. I have seen everything from disaster evacuees to domestic abuse escapees to 'I'm travelling and left my phone on the train'. To the best we can do for them, if they don't know at least an email password by heart, they are stuck.(This is also why any two-factor authentication that requires you to use your smartphone sucks. If you are an app user who is having to log into a new device on short notice there's a fairly good chance it's because you can't use your smartphone. Please stop tricking people into activating this without understanding it, websites!)The more effort these people have put into securing their accounts, the worse off they are. So if there is a way to get around this and have a password manager that works for people who might have to flee with only the shirt on their back, I would love to know it.(67 comments | Reply)May 16th, 2020 06:25 pm - Happy birthday to me!We went tramping around in the woods by my house today, which I really needed, and I didn't even get any ticks! (The process did put pandemic in perspective - to leave the house for anywhere other than pavement or manicured lawn around here from about May to October, you need to make sure all of your skin except possibly your hands and face are covered, tuck your pants into your socks, wear eye protection, spray yourself with protective chemicals, constantly keep an eye out for the contact poisons that are everywhere, come home, immediately drop your clothes into the wash, and don't touch anything before you shower very carefully with soap every and check your skin for parasites, and then monitor yourself carefully for symptoms in case you missed something. It's. A lot. We take it for granted.)Anyway, who wants to play some party games for my birthday? I have this 1887 book of Parlor Games and I think some of them would work as comment threads! I'm going to try to start a few and see.(96 comments | Reply)May 4th, 2020 11:36 pm - May the fourth be with you!Oh, did I mention I found the rest of the Star Wars figures? Here they are!This is mostly pre-1990 figures, excepting the six in the back row. Some of them were the start of the whole thing - my grandmother had about a dozen mixed in with her doll collection, and we picked them up and started buying others as we found them, just before the SW merch machine started rolling back up to speed in the mid-90s. (The only two that are actually worth anything, afaik, are the alien in the blue jumpsuit in the back corner and the chibi ewok.) They were considerably harder to pose together than the newer ones, not because they have worse balance, but because they are a lot lighter so the floor of the photo studio kept shifting! And also because they are much more consistent in form, so they kept wanting to be dominoes.Also, Jar-Jar says hi!And meet BB-Ace, astromech droid, your friend and mine!She didn't make it to the first photoshoot because I picked her up dirt cheap from the Jawas in really rough condition and only just finished the refurb. Doesn't she look spiffy? Since she missed the first shoot she ( got a whole outdoors photoshoot, having adventures! )(aren't you all sorry I finally got a phone with a passable camera)(16 comments | Reply)April 20th, 2020 07:25 pm - title hereHere is that quaranmeme that was going around last week, for posterity, even though I am very late!( 25 questions, 1 photo. )Also on the off-chance you're the one person who hasn't seen it yet, go get free Murderbot. Read free Murderbot.(23 comments | Reply)April 13th, 2020 08:32 pm - Image Spam TimeHappy Republic of Two Systems Independence Day!Today I went out in the wilderness foraging for the family and brought back enough meat to last us a month:(currently taking bets on whether Mom sneaks out overnight and eats off the arms. :P)Several people linked to a Kould Ts'ens Fish and Braised Mushrooms | A Shisa Girl's Spoon, which is an excerpt from a Radchaai recipe blog, and looks yummy.We've been doing a lot more cooking here lately- on a three-day rotation for dinner, which gives us some motivation to not completely slack off, and also allows for planning ahead. I had Easter Sunday and we were pretty much out of both special meats and fresh veggies, and stellar_dust didn't let me do a Spam Roast, so I made one of my SCA specialities, "Gobbets in Brute Sauce". Part of the reason I like it is that it reminds me of the heavy spiced meat dishes from "The Perilous Gard", so I share it here in spirit of cooking from fantasy books.This is my version adapted for shelf-stable ingredients and very easy cooking. It's from HARLEIAN MS. 279. POTAGE DYVERS via A 15th Century Cookry Boke( Gobbets in Brute Sauce )They did not let me use the good wine.Anyway, I promised pictures of Star Wars toys, so here is:( So much Star Wars )(8 comments | Reply)April 7th, 2020 08:55 pm - WIPs listSo I finally had time to go through all my backups, and I think I now have a complete Scrivener file with all of my fanfic wips from the past 20 years, including the ones that for the past five years I thought were lost on a dead hard drive but it turns out I'd been smart and burned a CD!The Scrivener file has over 500,000 words. There are 222 stories in 47 fandoms, plus 32 distinct crossovers. There are only 9 where I have absolutely no idea what I was going with the thing! (Including one where my only hint is the filename "fpscnsw", so that's... helpful, past me.) There are plenty of others where I don't really know what happens *next*, but I think for most of them that was always the case, which is why they're still WIPs.Anyway, call it 209 months since I started seriously writing fanfic, that averages about 2400 words a month in WIPs alone over the whole period, and almost the same per story, which isn't great but is a lot better than I would have guessed! (And just over one new WIP a month, which could be... better.)Anyway, so I have indexed them by Simple Trope, and made a poll. I will use the results of this poll to determine which one(s) I should work on, and either post here as definitely absolutely never to be finished, or actually finish.Have fun with the poll!Or, if you want to comment with one of the poll entries, I will give you a long excuse as to why I never finished it. :P( poll )Of course, that only includes the ones that made it to files on my computer - ones I only ever wrote into DW entries or comment threads or on paper or only talked about a lot and never put words down aren't counted....(42 comments | Reply)March 29th, 2020 06:36 pmPoll #23724Open to: Registered Users, detailed results viewable to: All, participants: 59View RespondentsShould I open up and play with the box of 25-year-old carefully unopened Star Wars action figures we found in the attic?
                View AnswersYes52 (88.1%)  No7 (11.9%)  (21 comments | Reply)March 28th, 2020 10:03 pm - Sometimes I make things!I baked a bread! It is using the wild yeast I caught last week, and these instructions that somebody on DW linked to. It is at least vaguely bread-like, anyway! :DAnd I made a vid two vid! They are for the first exercise at vexercises, which called for a 1-minute vid of exactly 10 6-second clips, set to two different 1-minute music clips. That seemed like it was about my speed. They are at least vaguely vid-like, anyway! I successfully put clips over music!"vexercies1a" (Watch on Vimeo)vexercies1a from melannen on Vimeo."vexercies1q" (Watch on Vimeo)vexercies1q from melannen on Vimeo.stellar_dust, who has substantially more vidding experience than me, wanted to know if the point of the exercise was to demonstrate that pretty much any music works for pretty much any vid. It kinda does, at least for these, given my music choice was "The first two vaguely otp-ish things that came up in my 'Standards' folder" and my clip choice was "The first ten usable OTP clips I found".(17 comments | Reply)March 24th, 2020 08:40 pm - Covid copingI haven't posted here because I feel like all I have to say is "here's how I'm coping with self-isolation" but then I scan down my reading list and that's all anybody has to say, so, I guess.I have still been trying to get something non-covid-related up on fictional_fans every day, but you are still invited to join in! I am happy to skip a day if someone else gets there first! :DThere's also fandom_checkin, which is a new comm just for people who are feeling isolated to check in every day, if you want an unstructured place to talk about covid.I am currently on paid emergency leave; in theory we go back to work Monday but the governor closed all non-essential businesses with no end date, and we were supposed to hear an update from the higher-ups today but all we got was a quotation from the governor's order, so who even knows. I am holed up with my mom and stellar_dust (who came home for an early spring break and is staying for the duration) and her cat, and we've barely dented the contents of the freezer and the pie safe. I made a 150-item pie-in-the-sky to-do list that I've barely dented and keep adding to, but I've started with the most complicated and annoying ones first.Today I finally attempted to get the data off the old hard drives that have been piling up for, oh, five years or more. Anybody have any ideas for a SATA drive that's so busted even ddrescue can identify it but thinks it has 0 bytes? Someone on an old linux forum suggested disassemble it and clean all the contacts.I've been taking a walk down to the pokemon gym on the corner every day, and I have people I like to talk to in person, a group text and dreamwidth, and a cat to cuddle, so I'm doing okay. In my previous experience of more elective self-isolations, if I get synchronous conversation + sky and fresh air + a living thing to touch every day, I do pretty well, so we're aiming for that. I started a paper journal and that's helping too, to let me get out thoughts I don't need to share with people (it's in a teeny-tiny notebook with fifteen lines to a page; I put a day's to-do list on the front of the page, and then journal on the back, which keeps both things reasonably unintimidating). And stellar_dust is making us do nightly yoga.Have also been doing a lot more cooking than usual; we sort of fell into an every-third-day cooking rotation, though the cleaning up after is harder. I am trying to grow a wild sourdough starter but haven't been brave enough to try actual bread with it yet. (I did try the Navajo flatbread recipe that's been going around; it came out pretty good even though the dough texture was not at all what it was supposed to be, so it seems like a pretty fool-tolerant recipe. I though it would end up basically pancakes, especially given my dough was too thin and sticky to roll out, but it was much more bread-like.)Anyway I bought a set of 250 professional-quality knocking-things-down dominoes the last weekend before things got serious, so at least I don't have to worry about being bored!(9 comments | Reply)March 17th, 2020 09:31 pmFor no particular reason except that I finally have the time on my hands, I've set myself a goal of posting once a day at fictional_fans. So far I am alternating calls for recs/ideas for discussion, we'll see how far I get before I run out of ideas!I as usual invite other people to join in over there - anything related to any fandom is welcome at any time (although things that are broadly applicable to more than one fandom tend to get more comments.)ETA: Also all my DW notifications have been going to spam for about a month and I just figured out how to fix it, so if I wandered away from a conversation that's why - I'm going to go through and try to pick back up any that I need to.(5 comments | Reply)March 5th, 2020 02:05 pm - COVID-19Okay, coronavirus post since that’s the only thing I’m reading about these days anyway. This is probably not anything you have not already heard, but I’m putting it here as much to get my own thoughts straight as anything.
If you are an audio person and/or a science person, I recommend the COVID-19 podcast series currently going at This Week In Virology. It’s my favorite podcast format - working scientists who are also friends chat about current research in their field - and at this point they have almost thirteen hours of working clinicians, epidemiologists and virologists talking about each week’s developments in COVID-19. Start with the first one (582: This Little Virus Went To Market) and work forward; the podcast is matter-of-fact and looking at evidence on the ground, and listening from the beginning is a great perspective on just how little we know and just how fast that knowledge is changing. Thirteen hours of podcast will sate your need for news if anything will!
(The coronavirus episode of This Podcast Will Kill You is also good - it’s over a month old at this point, so not a lot on COVID-19 yet, but it’s a great pop-science background review on the earlier human coronaviruses and how they work.)
( What I think we know )
( Okay, what to do about it )
Another thing a lot of the advice is mentioning is to stock up on reading material, games and projects in case you're housebound longterm. But this is dreamwidth, I am sure I am not the only one confused at the idea of not always having several years' worth of reading and projects all ready to go.
But! I do need a new twiddle game for my new phone. Anyone have Android phone game recs? 
Here is what I am looking for:
An abstract puzzle game (it doesn't have to be completely abstract, but no compelling narrative please)
Where you don't play against the clock or need perfect timing
That depends on flow rather than operant conditioning to keep you playing
That has some kind of "infinite play" mode (or at least enough levels to be basically infinite play)
But still gives a sense that you are making progress or accomplishing something as you go, (even if it's just collecting badges or leveling up), not just playing the same puzzle over and over
Is not too hard or too easy. If difficulty progresses it's steady and not too fast. If you get stuck on one particular puzzle, it doesn't completely block further play.
Is not verbal. If I have brain for words I will be reading, not twiddling.
Doesn't have resource management as a major part of gameplay, that's too stressful.
Doesn't rely on telling fine shades of color apart, since I use a pretty drastic blue-light filter. 
Doesn't require audio, and if it has video ads, the ads play well with listening to a podcast at the same time and aren't offensive in content. 
If it has in-app purchases, the game is fully playable without them. If it wants me to pay, unlocks paid mode with a one-time payment.
Preferably does not drain unnecessary battery or data.
I have not already played it through at a least twice (This disqualifies all versions of solitaire, 2048, Flow, Bejeweled, and Magikarp Jump.)
Right now I am in love with Tiny Bubbles, except I played through all the puzzle levels in two days and it doesn't have a real infinite play mode even if you pay, even though it should. I basically want something like that but with infinite play.
(94 comments | Reply)February 24th, 2020 07:07 pmI have been going through old files, with the result that I found a bunch of old half-finished posts and now have too many things I want to post and not enough energy for any of themAlso I found a bunch of old sedoretu notes and now I'm thinking about MDZS sedoretu AU ¯\_(ツ)_/¯I think the main differences in that AU are:1. Madame Yu and Madame Jin spent their childhoods assuming they'd be married someday. When they were both betrothed to major sect leaders they knew it would never happen, but then Madame Yu's useless betrothed made them marry Cangse Sanren and her servant lover just so they could run off together without being *entirely* scandalous, and then she died in that stupid, stupid way without even calling her wife for help!!2. Jiang Cheng and Wei Wuxian spent their childhoods assuming they'd be married someday. Yes, this makes it all worse.3. And even after that became impossible, Jiang Cheng never thought he'd end up marrying Jiang Yanli and the peacock instead, but he'll to what needs done to protect Yunmeng. (Who is the Evening wife in that four? It would have to be an OC or all-but-OC, unless you swerve away from canon and have them propose to Wen Qing in Yiling. Or Qin Su, but that changes a lot later too.) (Unless you assume that Wei Wuxian and Lan Wangji got their stuff figured out a lot sooner in a 'verse with normative bisexuality and there's a Lan Wangji/Wei Wuxian/Luo Qingyang/Wen Qing wedding at the burial mounds and things go even farther off course.)4. I think the moieties even all work out?? Wei Wuxian is even the same moiety as Mo Xuanyu (unless you want to make that as fucked up as possible by assuming Mo Xuanyu's mom was the same moiety as Jin Guangshan. Which you could, because he totally would, and then everybody is even more weirded out at Mo Xuanyu being all over Lan Wangji.)5. This canon needs more not-dead women, there's literally nobody left for them to marry post-canon.Tags: fandom:webnovels, sedoretu(5 comments | Reply)February 17th, 2020 09:57 pmI did not finish the thing I started for lupercalia, but then pornday was declared, and since I was in theory spending the evening moving my old writing files to the new laptop, and because I am finally over my long winter sick enough that it seemed doable, I pulled out my second-oldest pwp wip and stuck it over there (it will probably go on my AO3 eventually, although possibly under one of my old pseuds because I don't think any of my subscribers expect pwp anymore.) It is extremely kinky geeky est rel f/f for two one-off characters from a Fourth Doctor serial, because I have to stay on model in some ways, at least:Slow Fire, Vivien Fay/Amelia Rumford.***Anyway here is that trope meme that's been going around DW, via about ten people:Slow burn OR love at first sight: Slow burn, unless the love at first sight is subverted or worldbuilt somehow. Fake dating OR secret dating: Fake dating! Marriage-of-convenience-that-we-pretend-is-real is even better.Enemies to lovers OR best friends to lovers: all possible permutations of these three, please.( Read more... )(8 comments | Reply)
&gt; previous 20 entries&gt; Go to Top
Dreamwidth Studios
