     Skip to Main Content
                                Profile
                    notajar    
                    Grant Access
                    Subscribe
                    Track Account
                    Private Message
                        Gift Paid Account
            The House of the Arch
      Free AccountCreated on 2011-12-20 17:49:52 (#1148818), last updated 2012-01-11 (456 weeks ago)676 comments received, 953 comments posted  44 Journal Entries, 167 Tags, 0 Memories, 101 Icons UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:notajarBirthdate:May 3Website:Voicemail/E-mail  
                 Mini Bio
                I come from London Below. People who live Above don't notice us unless we call attention to ourselves, don't remember us afterwards even if we do. We're the ones who fall through the cracks in the world. Mad or magic or just misplaced, we live in the parts of your cities that you've forgotten ever existed.I'm called Door. The Lady Door, of the House of the Arch, but Door is fine. Lord Portico was my father; my mother was Portia, my sister and brother Ingress and Arch. I'm telling you their names not to trade on them for favour, but because they're dead; names are all I've got left. The men who killed them are hunting me; you don't want to meet them.My family are Openers. Doors, locks, passageways - everything wants to be open. We just help it along. If a door's there, we can open it. If it's not, we can find it or make it. Were. My family were Openers. Now there's just me. I was running and frightened and I opened a door to someplace safe, to help, and... here I am.Residence: Room 418 with SeelyseelyboothseelynotangelSeely BoothPhone: 555-DOORE-mail (IC): door@fandomhigh.eduClass Schedules: Summer 2007 I: Sex Ed the GOB Bluth Way/Annoy Your TeachersSpring 2007 | Fall 2006___OOC: Character journal for fandomhigh. Fandom/Disclaimer:Neverwhere, by Neil Gaiman, who owns Door and her world; I'm just borrowing them for the purposes of play, not profit. (Mini-series images belong to the BBC; header is a remix of the Cityscape London theme for the Expressive style which I'd happily be using if it were designed for people with 800x600 resolution, WTF, Vox LJ, WTF.)Canon source: Door is a mixture of book and mini-series canon, not that there's a lot of difference between the two. If there's a conflict in appearance or age (Door's sister is clearly younger in the book than she appeared onscreen, Door is a redhead in the novel and comics), I'm going with the televised version for icon-making purposes. Otherwise, the story in both formats is so close it hardly matters; mostly the book just provides details and background that the miniseries doesn't comment on one way or the other, like the names of Door's siblings.Where Door diverges: Wounded, trapped, and running from Croup and Vandemar, the men who were hired to kill her family, Door reached out and opened a door to safety. In canon, that led her to Richard Mayhew. Here, it led her to Fandom High.Useful Character Links: Full Character Info PageDoor at the International Catalogue of SuperheroesNeverwhere at Wikipedia.The Very Small But Quite Significant Neverwhere Page__Availability Info: Eastern timezone. I work weekdays 8 to 5, more or less, and am sometimes available to play (and on IM) during those hours, sometimes not. After 5 on weekdays, and most waking hours on weekends, I'm probably on IM and playing. Me as a player: Me + ability to concentrate on many threads/posts at once |= OTP. For example, if you see Door in a Common Room and she's only responding to people who directly ping her thread, it's not because I don't want to talk to you - it's just that it's easier on my concentration to stick to one main thread. None of this means I won't be happy to play in any particular post with you folk; it just means everything's a case-by-case "Is my brain currently exploding?" situation, and it's best to grab me beforehand to figure out whether we're both/all available for an interaction. Talk to me, by e-mail or IM. OOC communication = love.Did I mention OOC Communication = Love? Because I can't repeat it enough, yay. Pleasetalk to me about anything I do that's bothering you, whether it's in-character actions or OOC gameplaying issues. I can't fix it if I don't realize it's happening, and I don't pick up gentle hints well. (That's misleading. I pick up gentle hints too well, seeing them even when they're not there, thus occasionally annoying people with my paranoia about whether I'm annoying people. Yay neuroses! So my only safe path, not that I'm always able to stick to it, is to assume that if no one tells me there's a problem, there isn't one.)[---------------------------Useful FH Links: ------------------------------------]In-Game Reference2006/2007 Fandom High Calendar | School DirectoryFaculty |  Students | Alumni | Townies | Town-Resident StaffIsland Maps and Residence DirectoryOOC ReferenceCharacter Directory | Player HandbookWhat Gets Posted Where | Class expectations for regular school yearOverview on Detentions | Townie Guide
                 Connect
                Interests (23):
            animals, books, doors, exploring, finding my sister, jane austen, keys, locks, london above, london below, magic, making peace, mr. croup, mr. vandemar, opening, puzzles, reading, riddles, survival, the floating market, the underground, tunnels, who killed my family
                 People
                [View Entries]
                    Mutual Access (0)
                    Also Gives Access To (208):
             [livejournal.com] 1ordinarygirl, 2-twin-devils-2, a-phale, abhorsentobe, ambassadorinara, anextimeagent, apocalypsesoon, ashockingbitch, auroryborealis, badluckprodigy, banikslaveboy, big-head-boy, bigbrothersean, bigdamndean, blackmagic-eve, blessed-twice, bluth-illusions, bocce-baal, bookwormwood, bookyeve, bound2blade, bridge-carson, bruiser-in-pink, by137, cameronmitchell, can-be-more, cantgetnorelief, cantjossme, carbontelepath, carter-i-am, certaintrouble, chasingangela, chasingsnitches, connernotconnor, cookinggeek, courier-gavin, cutestripeyhat, daimonhost, dawn-bearer, dbiers, deandestroyer, death-of-hope, demonbelthazor, demons-death, dorky-broots, dr-jwilsonmd, dude-its-jude, electric-sitar, emo-padawan, evilpinkthing, falcon-or-blade, fandom-sub, fandomtroopers, fantastic-torch, fast-eddies, fastestkidalive, fat-halpert, fates-jaye, fh-anonymous, fh-dangershop, fh-directory, fh-extras, fh-office, flamingbonehead, ft-directory, geniusdoctor, girlzippo, grenfelzer, halfshell-hero, henryoredward, hotceltogoth, idontlooktired, idontspeakfreak, iftheseshadows, ihatedenmark, im-afrog, im-fullmetal, imac-kenzie, imcalledandros, imissmydolphin, importantman, iqof39, irulan-atreides, ismyhairout, izzyalienqueen, jedi-qui, joanna-stayton, just-add-starch, justmisplaced, kawalsky, keds-champion, kitty--fetish, konoha-flash, krycek-rat, ktarian-wildman, l1ttle-billy, ladycfitzgerald, light-a-spark, likeguidelines, lilpunkinbelly, lovelylana, lovesrenoir, marsheadtilt, meetingsnoopy, missed-the-gate, misshargrove, montecito-east, moonbrain-tam, morpherboy, motherboy-bluth, mouthy-merc, mparkerceo, mr-hippie, mrodneymckay, multi-madrox, multiplez, mycanonhatesme, needsaparrot, neurotic-witch, no-archangel, no-toast-thanks, norglomofnit, notafairmaiden, notajar, notawitch, notqueenyet, notstakedyet, notthehulk, oatmanspatient, once-a-king, oncourtandstage, outofbrooklyn, palestshadow, peter--parker, pieandcoffee, professor-lyman, psychic-wonder, psycho-barbie, psycho-jackass, pyroliz, queen-of-zagreb, repeterpetrelli, roadhousequeen, robinthefrog, rose-bad-wolf, saltandammo, sarcasm-guy, savedfornow, scary-jeff, scrabblecyborg, screwyoumarvel, senor-chado, sensethevisions, sensitivejim, sexycandlepants, sexydoctor, sideburnsofwar, silent-robert, sith-happened, sixstandingby, sizzler-sisters, slr-mercury, smartestone, snarkyprincess, snow-white-boy, socksofcool, soldtoarmenians, solo-sword, solowhistler, sonofdragons, sound-loyalty, southernbender, spacepiratevala, spec-collection, splendid-aggie, stanleykeyworth, stocksgrrl, stuckeyboy, suit-of-awesome, surferboy-09er, suzotchka, swerval-zero, tatooine-doofus, the-merriest, thebluespirit, threeweapons, tiger-bouncer, tinkerbitch, tricksy-spy, turtle-techie, turtle-toughguy, twohalvesofaphd, umbitch, untouchableskin, vkandis-son, walks-two-paths, wannabe-pan, wannabehunter, wannabelawyer, water-wonder, whatever-sucks, whathasbeenlost, whitedeathpod, willbedone, witchy-prue, x5-alec, yesmanbraca[users.livejournal.com] swedish_chef_ 
                    Also Has Access From (8):
             agentthepaper, enginegirl, fh_jackass, l1ttle_billy, notamascot, robinthefrog, sith_happened, wannabehunter 
                    Mutual Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscribers (0)
                 Communities
                [View entries]
                    Member Of (0)
                    Subscriptions (2):
             dw_maintenance, dw_news 
                    Administrator Of (0)
                 Feeds
                [View Entries]
                    Subscriptions (0)
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
