SolCAP
  Home
	 Project Description
	 Project Participants
	 SolCAP Newsletters
   Potato
	 Germplasm
	 Phenotype Data
	 Genotype Data
   Tomato
	 Germplasm
	 Phenotype Data
	 GenotypeData
   Education/Outreach
	 Extension
	 Workshops/Webinars
	 Meetings
	 Protocols
	 Tutorials
	 Educational Videos
   Sol Genomics Network
   Tools
	  Potato Intra SNPs
	  Tomato Inter SNPs
	  Genomics Resources
    Publications
    Impacts and Outcomes
    Links
    Contacts
The SolCAP project is supported by the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative Applied Plant Genomics CAP Program of USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
The Solanaceae Coordinated Agricultural Project (SolCAP) was supported by the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative Applied Plant Genomics CAP Program of USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture. The project was awarded $5.4 million dollars between 10/1/2008 through 8/31/2012.   The project succeeded in linking together people from public institutions, private institutions and industries dedicated to the improvement of the Solanaceae crops: potato and tomato. Through innovative research, education and training the SolCAP project focused on translating genomic advances to US tomato and potato breeding programs. The impact of this research is leading to significantly improved varieties that benefit the processors, the consumer and the environment. 
The SolCAP project is a recipient of the 2011 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary of Agriculture’s Honor Award. The Honor Awards are the most prestigious awards presented by the Secretary of Agriculture and recognize exceptional leadership, contributions, or public service. 
Solanaceae Coordinated Agricultural Project 
Project Headquarters
Michigan State University
2100 Molecular Plant Science Building
East Lansing, Michigan 48824
The SolCAP website is still available for access to links,
databases, project data etc., however active updating of the site has
ended.
Maintenance Notice 
We have planned server maintenance on the first Wednesday of every
month. SolCAP web pages may be unavailable or only partially
functional during server maintenance.
On May 24, 2013 the SolCAP website will be unavailable from
3:00-4:00PM EST.
On August 5, 2013, December 2, 2013, and April 7, 2014 the SolCAP
website will be unavailable starting at 8:00AM EST for a minimum of 2
hours for maintenance.
Website maintained by: Candice Hirsch and Kelly Zarka 
Web template provided by A.
Viklund.
