     Skip to Main Content
                                Community Profile
                    pixelpushers    
                    Join Community
                    Subscribe
                    Post to Community
                    Track
                        Gift Paid Account
            Pixel Pushers
            Discussions of interest to digital artists
      Free AccountCreated on 2009-05-12 03:17:56 (#329108), last updated 2009-05-20 (594 weeks ago)0 comments received  2 Journal Entries, 1 Tag, 0 Memories, 1 Icon UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:Pixel PushersLocation:(states/regions/territories)Membership:OpenPosting Access:All MembersCommunity Description:Support and discussion for digital artists  
                 Mini Bio
                Welcome to Pixel Pushers!  This community is for digital visual artists.  Feel free to discuss techniques, software, strategy, marketing, freelancing, and more.  Anything that would be of interest to the amateur or professional digital artist is welcome here.  Please note that this is not a community for showing off your artwork.  Our sister community digitalart is a far better place for that.Rules:Flames or attacks are not welcome here.  This includes attacking ideas as well as individuals.  For example, "I don't like XYZ software because the user interface is poorly designed," is acceptable.  "XYZ software sucks," is not.  If you see comments that you believe are inappropriate, notify a moderator.  It is not appropriate to attack or flame anyone here, even if they started it.This community is open to a variety of subject matters.  Any content that is welcome under the Open Expression and Diversity Statement is welcome here.  This means that some content may make some viewers uncomfortable.  If you find something posted here that makes you uncomfortable, stop looking at it.Off topic posts may be deleted without warning.Advertisements for other communities or events are allowed only by permission of the maintainer/moderator.  Contact information is below.  If you fail to get permission, those posts may also be deleted without warning.This community is focused on discussion.  You are not welcome to disable comments on your posts.Maintainer/Moderator:iconoplast - StaceyContact - dw.digitalart (at) gmail.com or private message here.
                 Connect
                Interests (19):
            2d art, 3d art, 3ds max, art, blender, computer art, computer generated art, computers, digital art, digital music, fractals, gimp, houdini, maya, painter, photoshop, pixel pushers, pixels, technology
                Administrators
                    Administrators (1):
             iconoplast 
                Members
                [View Entries]
                    Members (11):
             clairbreton, doramajoo, emily, erisreg, iconoplast, insilhouette, jessicamear, justmoregay, magycmyste, salta, vasimr 
                    Subscribers (14):
             clairbreton, doramajoo, emily, erisreg, iconoplast, insilhouette, jbhelfrich, jessicamear, justmoregay, magycmyste, paian, salta, vasimr, wendynever 
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
