				Advertise
				Contact
				About
	            Orthodox Christianity
	                Introduction
	                History and
	                Doctrine
	                The Church
	                Worship
	                Icons and
	                Iconography
	                Veneration of Saints
	                and Relics
	                Lives of Saints
	                Monasticism
	                Orthodoxy In
	                America
	                Orthodoxy and
	                Islam
	                Miscellaneous
	                Articles
	                Miscellaneous
	                Resources
	            Western Christianity
	                Introduction
	                On Western
	                Christianity
	                For All
	                Protestants
	                For
	                Evangelicals
	                For Roman
	                Catholics
	                For
	                Charismatics
	                For Reformed
	                Protestants
	                For Lutherans	                
	                For
	                Anglicans
	                Salvation in
	                Christ
	                The Church is Visible
	                and One
	                Holy
	                Tradition
	                Venerating Icons
	                and Saints
	                Convert
	                Testimonies
	                Miscellaneous
	                Articles
	            The Orthodox Mindset
	                Introduction
	                Holy Tradition, the
	                Criterion of Truth
	                How to Read the Holy
	                Fathers
	                The ‘Fragrance’ and
	                ‘Mindset’ of the Fathers
	                The Divine
	                Services
	                Book and Movie
	                Reviews
	                Miscellaneous
	                Articles
	            Living an Orthodox Life
	                Introduction
	                Foundational
	                Writings
	                Ascetic Struggle
	                The Orthodox Way of
	                Life
	                Spiritual Guidance in
	                the World
	                Marriage and
	                Family
	                The Church in the
	                Home
	                Worship
	                Prayer
	                Fasting
	                Confession
	                Miscellaneous
	                Articles
	            Death and Eternal Life
	                Introduction
	                Writings of the
	                Saints
	                Modern Views and
	                NDEs
	                Love and Respect for the
	                Dead
	                Memorial and Funeral
	                Services
	                Theological and
	                Pastoral Treatises
	                Suggested Books
	            Ecumenism
	                Introduction
	                Modernism
	                General
	                Articles
	                The Calendar
	                Controversy
	                Baptismal Ecclesiology
	                Baptism and the
	                Reception of Converts
	                False Union With
	                Rome
	                The Balamand
	                Agreement
	                Neo-Papal
	                Patriarchalism
	                Monophysites
	                (Non-Chalcedonians)
	                The Witness of the
	                Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia
	                Commonly Misunderstood
	                Terms
	                Ecumenical Documents and
	                Critiques
			AD HERE-->
				Share
				Related Content
					For Further Reading-->
									Related search results...
						AD HERE-->
							Subscribe to Our Mailing List
							Would you like to be notified when new articles are posted, books are published, etc?
							Email  *
							First Name 
							Last Name 
					-->
					Amazon.com Widgets
On Holy Tradition
Ch. 3 from The Truth of Our Faith
by Elder Cleopa of Romania
 Inquirer: 
  What is the Holy Tradition that the Orthodox consider to be the second source 
  of Holy Revelation and coequal with Holy Scripture?
 Elder Cleopa: 
  Holy Tradition is the teaching of the Church, God-given with a living voice, 
  from which a portion was later written down. As with Holy Scripture, so, too, 
  Holy Tradition contains Holy Revelation, and is, therefore, fundamental for 
  our salvation. Holy Tradition is the life of the Church in the Holy Spirit 
  and, consonant with the enduring life of the Church, is thus a wellspring of 
  Holy Revelation, such that, consequently, it possesses the same authority as 
  Holy Scripture.
From the time of Adam until 
  that of Abraham, according to the old chronologies, 3,678 years passed, and 
  if we add 430 years when the Israelites remained in Egypt, we have 4,108 years. 
  Throughout this period of time Holy Scripture neither existed nor was 
  the Sabbath considered as a feast among the people. During this period of many 
  thousands of years the faithful and chosen people were guided to the path of 
  salvation only by Holy Tradition, namely, from the teachings about God which 
  they received from a living voice. Only for the duration of 1400 years - from 
  the time of Moses until the advent of Christ - were they guided by the Holy 
  Scriptures of the Old Testament.
Just as before the books 
  of the Old Testament were written the people were guided in the knowledge of 
  God and on the path of salvation only by Holy Tradition (Tradition with a living 
  voice, orally), so too were they precisely before the writing of the books of 
  the New Testament. The Holy Tradition was the guide by which the first Christians 
  were directed to the path of salvation. The first to impart the teachings of 
  the New Testament with a living voice to the ears of the people was our Saviour 
  Jesus Christ Himself, who for three and a half years continually taught the 
  people, distributing His Gospel without, however, writing anything. Inasmuch 
  as He was carrying out obedience to His Father, He didnt send His Apostles 
  to write but to preach the Gospel to the whole world, saying to them: Go ye 
  therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, 
  and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit: Teaching them to observe all things 
  whatsoever I have commanded you: and lo, I am with you always, even unto the 
  end of the world. Amen (Mat. 28:19-20). From the day of its establishment (33 
  AD) until the year 44 AD, when the the Holy Apostle Matthew wrote the first 
  Gospel [1], 
  the Church was governed without the Scriptures of the New Testament, but only 
  with the Holy Tradition of which only a part was later recorded. Although there 
  were many other writers for whom it was claimed that they were inspired and 
  faithful scribes of the Apostles, the Church is She who did or did not recognise 
  them, for She is unerring. The Church lived the truth of the Gospel even before 
  anything was committed to writing, having lived with the Holy Tradition from 
  the outset.
So then, this is the Holy 
  Tradition: The source and the root of the two Testaments - the Old and the New 
  - and thus the reason why we call it a source of Holy Revelation, since it carries 
  the same weight as Holy Scripture.
 Inq.: 
  Yes, but it is said that Holy Scripture as God's word is not permitted to be 
  substituted or exchanged with Tradition, which is man's word, as is written 
  in the Gospel: Why do you also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? 
  ... ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. Ye hypocrites, 
  well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying: This people ... in vain do they 
  worship me, teaching for doctrine the commandments of men (Mat. 15:3, 6-9; 
  Mk. 7:13). Thus, it is not necessary for us to replace or add the tradition 
  of men to the law of God, which is contained in Holy Scripture.
 EC: 
  What your friends have told you is not at all true, since the law of God is 
  not only contained in Holy Scripture. Listen to what the divine Evangelist John 
  says: And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they 
  should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not 
  contain the books that should be written. Amen (Jn. 21:25). Again the same 
  Evangelist declares in one of his epistles: Having many things to write unto 
  you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and 
  speak face to face, that our joy may be full (2 Jn. 1:12). So, you see that 
  the holy evangelist, when he had the ability, taught his disciples more with 
  the living voice of Tradition than by sending them epistles. While your friends 
  keep at all costs only so much as is written, they dont take into account that 
  both the Saviour and the majority of His Apostles did not leave anything written, 
  but rather taught orally, with the living voice of Tradition.
 Inq.: 
   In that case, I dont know how Christians are to understand 
  the statement that we must not be seduced by the false teachings of men, especially 
  those which are religious and rely on Scripture. After all, the Apostle counsels 
  us: Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after 
  the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ 
  (Col. 2:8). It is our responsibility, then, to preserve ourselves from the false 
  traditions of men.
 EC: 
  Dearest to Christ, you do not discern the difference between the teachings of 
  human traditions and those that proceed from the apostolic and evangelical tradition. 
  You brought here an excerpt from Holy Scripture that refers to the tradition 
  of human teachings and pseudo philosophy that has no relationship whatsoever 
  to the evangelical and apostolic Tradition of the Church of Jesus Christ. Holy 
  Tradition is neither a tradition of men, nor a philosophy, nor some kind of 
  trickery, but is the word of God that He delivered to us personally. The great 
  Apostle Paul teaches and exhorts us to keep with vigour the traditions, saying; 
  Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been 
  taught, whether by word, or our epistle (2 Thess. 2:15). On the contrary, some 
  counsel weaker Christians to slander and abandon the apostolic and evangelical 
  traditions, without understanding that Holy Scripture itself is a fruit of the 
  Holy Spirit that grew out of the roots and tree of Holy Tradition.
 Inq.: 
   Why isnt Holy Scripture sufficient for faith and salvation, 
  without having any need whatsoever of Tradition? This appears to be the case 
  from the words of the Apostle Paul to Timothy: And that from a child thou hast 
  known the holy Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through 
  faith which is in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, 
  and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction 
  in righteousness (2 Tim. 3:15-16). These words are clear. Any addition to Holy 
  Scripture is unnecessary.
 EC: 
  Here he is speaking only about the Scripture of the Old Testament, for the New 
  Testament had not yet been written. Paul wrote to Timothy that a good teacher 
  could use the Old Testament for the support of his faith in Christ and his instruction 
  in Christianity. According to the notion that you mistakenly asserted, it follows 
  that not one book of the New Testament - from those that were written in the 
  period that followed these epistles of the Apostle Paul to Timothy - should 
  be accepted. Rather, it is enough for us to recognize the Old Testament books 
  mentioned here in the passage to which you refer.
 Inq.: 
   Some people dont acknowledge the Tradition because they say 
  that with the passing of time it yielded to many illegitimate elements, so that, 
  especially today, we are no longer able to discern the true apostolic Tradition 
  from the false.
 EC:  The 
  Church of Christ determined the truths of the faith, according to the long course 
  of Tradition, through the teachings and canons of the holy Oecumenical Councils, 
  decrees and the Symbol of Faith [The Creed], and with confessions [of Faith] 
  by holy and wonderworking hierarchs such as were made at the many local synods 
  which have been held continuously since the days of old. At these synods the 
  authenticity and genuineness of the holy Orthodox Faith was firmly established, 
  primarily therein where it was attacked by the existing heresies of the time. 
  From the totality of such synods appears the irrevocable 
  and inalterable content of Holy Tradition. This is understood when you examine 
  closely the essence of the following conditions:
  - Do not sanction conceptions 
    that contain inconsistencies amongst themselves or contradictions with the 
    apostolic Tradition and Holy Scripture. (A teaching is to be considered worthy 
    of Tradition when it stems from the Saviour or the Holy Apostles and is 
    directly under the influence of the Holy Spirit.)
  - The Tradition is that 
    which has been safeguarded from the Apostolic Church and has an uninterrupted 
    continuity until today.
  - The Tradition is that 
    which is confessed and practiced by the entire universal Orthodox Church.
  - The Tradition is that 
    which is in harmony with the greatest portion of the fathers and ecclesiastical 
    writers.
When a tradition does not 
  fulfil these stipulations, it cannot be considered true and holy, and consequently 
  cannot be considered admissible or fit to be observed.
 Inq.:  
  Notwithstanding all the efforts which you say the Orthodox 
  Church has made and makes relative to the truth of Tradition, some believe only 
  the teachings which are contained in Holy Scripture. For the first Christians 
  - they say - accepted only such writings as were contained in Holy Scripture, 
  as it is written: These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that 
  they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the Scriptures 
  daily, whether those things were so (Acts 17:11). From this it follows that 
  we should keep those teachings find written in Holy Scripture.
 EC: 
  However, the great Apostle Paul commends the Christians of Corinth not because 
  they kept the written teachings, but because they obeyed him and observed with 
  diligence the oral teachings that they had received from him. Listen to what 
  he writes; Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and 
  even as I delivered to you, ye are holding fast the traditions (1 Cor. 11:2). 
  I wonder, what is better to do: for us to keep only the written teachings or 
  to follow the great Apostle Paul who extols those who keep the unwritten tradition 
  as well? Furthermore, weve established that the Holy Apostles and Evangelists 
  believed and preach-ed abundantly from Holy Tradition, which they inherited 
  from of old and is not written anywhere in Holy Scripture.
 Inq.: 
   Where specifically does it appear that the Holy Apostles taught 
  other teachings aside from those which are written in Holy Scripture?
 EC: 
  Here are two testimonies: The Holy Apostle Jude in his catholic epistle, verse 
  nine, among others, says: But when the archangel Michael, contending with the 
  devil, disputed about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce a reviling 
  judgement upon him, but said, The Lord rebuke thee (Jude 9). Dearest to Christ, 
  search all of Holy Scripture and see if you will find written this utterance. 
  Still further down in the same epistle the Apostle refers to the prophecy of 
  Enoch, saying: And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, 
  saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints, to execute 
  judgement upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their 
  ungodly deeds which they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all their 
  hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him (Jude 14-20). Yet, 
  the Apostle Jude is not alone in speaking from Tradition. Listen to what the 
  illustrious Paul says in his second epistle to Timothy; Now as Jannes and Jambres 
  withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate 
  concerning the faith (2 Tim. 3:8). And again the renowned Apostle Paul, guiding 
  the priests of Ephesus, says: Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he 
  said, it is more blessed to give than to receive (Acts 20:35). Now, I ask you, 
  who insist on putting faith only in the written word, from where did the two 
  Apostles - Jude and Paul - take the foregoing words, for you will not find them 
  written anywhere in Holy Scripture?
 Inq.: 
   Still, I question if it is possible for Holy Tradition to be 
  preserved until today unadulterated and genuine in all respects as in the beginning? 
  Shouldnt we possess more assurances from the written teachings of Holy Scripture?
 EC:  You 
  saw above that the famed Paul commends the Christians of Corinth for keeping, 
  with care and mindfulness, the unwritten traditions, such as they had received 
  from his very lips. Moreover, you heard that the Apostles Paul and Jude employed 
  in their preaching words taken directly from Holy Tradition, such as those that 
  referred to the prophecy of Enoch, and others. Further, I also pointed out to 
  you by what means Holy Tradition was preserved throughout the ages. Furthermore, 
  the same Apostle Paul exhorts and directs the Christians of Thessalonica to 
  be very attentive and vigilant to keep the Holy Tradition: Therefore, brethren, 
  stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word, 
  or our epistle (2 Thess. 2:15). And in another place he says: But though we, 
  or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we 
  have preached unto you, let him be accursed (Gal. 1:8). In other words, he 
  is speaking of the Gospel that he handed down to them with a living voice and 
  not only by written word.
 Inq.: 
   How was this Canon of Holy Tradition in the Church preserved 
  over the span of thousands of years? In our age some allege that from day to 
  day the clergy and ecclesiastical writers alter the truth of Holy Scripture 
  and the Apostolic Tradition, which in the beginning was authentic and genuine? 
  They say that if you have in your hand a book that was published 50 years ago 
  and you put it next to one published recently, they would have nothing in common. 
  It follows, then, that if the hierarchs and priests have done this with the 
  sacred books, they would do the same with the Holy Tradition of which the Orthodox 
  boast as having preserved unscathed from the Holy Apostles.
 EC:  That 
  which your companions have accepted is not at all correct. The teachings of 
  the Church of Christ are safeguarded by the Holy Spirit and cannot err (Mat. 
  10:17-20, John 4: 16-26, 1 Tim. 3:15). Its very founder, Jesus Christ governs 
  it in an unseen way, until the end of the ages (Mat. 28:20). If some ecclesiastical 
  writers, hierarchs, priests or laity translated the Bible from another language 
  or amended some passage of which an expression does not correspond to the present-day 
  speech of our people, this would be an adjustment and modification of expression 
  and not a serious alteration of the substance of the Biblical text. If today 
  a Romanian from the time of the Elder Mirtsea or Stephan the Great (1504) were 
  resurrected and you wanted to speak with him, you would understand him with 
  difficulty, the language having developed, no longer being exactly that which 
  was spoken then. Thats exactly what happened regarding the books. With the 
  passage of time the writers words or expressions were amended with suitable 
  present-day language, without however, changing the meaning of the profound 
  and sacred writings. Previously, I referred you to the foundation upon which 
  Holy Tradition rests and by what means the preservation of its authentic original 
  image is ensured and is conveyed through the ages. This refers to, namely, the 
  ancient Symbol of Faith (The Creed), the apostolic canons and the dogmatic decisions 
  of the seven [2] 
  Oecumenical Councils. To these can also be added the following monumental and 
  meaningful testaments - assurances of the unimpaired preservation of the Holy 
  Tradition:
  - The acts of the early 
    Church, the witnesses of the company of the apostles, amongst whom are Saint 
    Ignatius the God-bearer (+104 AD), a disciple of the Apostles and Saint Polycarp 
    of Smyrna (+106 AD). These Fathers admonished the faithful of their day to 
    safeguard themselves from the teachings of heretics and to maintain in the 
    full only the Apostolic Tradition (Eusebius of Caesarea, Ecclesiastical History, 
    Bk 2:36).
  - Hegessipus, Eusebius 
    tells us5, attempted to collect the whole of the apostolic traditions and 
    nearly managed it, gathering more than five books worth of material that Eusebius 
    studied. Unfortunately, with the passage of time, these books were eventually 
    lost (Eusebius of Caesarea, Ecclesiastical History, Bk 4:8).
  - Saint Irenaeus (+202 
    AD) and Clement of Alexandria (+215 AD) inform us: Those who explain Scripture 
    without the help of the Churchs Tradition cut asunder the significance of 
    truth (Stromatis, pg 7).
  Behold, further, those 
    brilliant witnesses representing the faith of apostolic times and the period 
    immediately following it up until the fourth century. The acts of the ancient 
    Church are an important testimony to the value of the Holy Tradition and honour 
    shown it from those times until today.
  - Origin (+250 AD) says: 
    Preserve the Holy Tradition in the Church.
  - St. Epiphanios (+403 
    AD) writes: It is necessary to hold to the Tradition because it is not possible 
    for everything to be found in Holy Scripture. The Holy Apostles handed down 
    some things via the written word, while others via the spoken.
  - Saint John Chrysostom 
    (+407 AD) says: Hence it is clear that the Holy Apostles did not deliver 
    everything by epistle; rather many things they handed down via the spoken 
    word which is also trustworthy. If there is the Tradition, then dont ask 
    for anything more (4th Homily on 2 Thess. See verse 2:45)
  - Saint Gregory of Nyssa 
    (+394 AD) writes: We have the Tradition set out for us from the Fathers like 
    an inheritance by apostolic succession and transmitted via the saints (Against 
    Eunomius, Book 40).
  - Saint Basil the Great 
    (+379 AD) in his writings provides similar testimony. Here is how he expresses 
    it: Among the dogmas and kerygma (evangelical truths) that are safeguarded 
    in the Church, some we have from the written teachings while others weve 
    received orally from the Tradition of the Apostles by a concealed succession. 
    The later hold the same legitimacy and force as the written texts (On the 
    Holy Spirit)
We must uphold with great 
  reverence and godliness Holy Tradition since all that is needful to effect our 
  salvation is not found within Holy Scripture. Holy Scripture instructs us to 
  do many things; however, it does not make manifest to us the light. For example, 
  it instructs us to be baptized, but it doesnt explain to us the method. Likewise, 
  it guides us to confess our sins, receive communion, be crowned (married) - 
  but nowhere does it specify the rite of carrying-out these mysterion 
  (sacraments). Furthermore, it instructs us to pray, but doesnt tell us how, 
  where and when. It tells us to make the sign of the Holy Cross in front of our 
  chest according to the psalmist Lord, lift Thou up the light of Thy countenance 
  upon us, but it doesnt show us how. Who teaches us in writing to worship facing 
  east? Where in Scripture are we told the words of the epiclesis (invocation) 
  of the Holy Spirit for the sanctification of the all-holy Mysteries? Which teaching 
  from Holy Scripture instructs us to bless the water of Baptism and the holy 
  Unction of Holy Chrismation? Which passage in Scripture teaches us about the 
  threefold denunciation and the renunciations of Satan before Holy Baptism? The 
  prayer of glorification toward the Holy Trinity - Glory to the Father and to 
  the Son and to the Holy Spirit - from which passage did it come to us?
Posing these questions 
  to the slanderer of Tradition, Saint Basil the Great says: If we consent to 
  abandon the unwritten traditions on the pretext that they dont have great worth, 
  we err in great and elevated matters, rejecting the Gospel.
The ordering, therefore, 
  by which the Church upholds the unwritten is: whatever is of apostolic descent 
  and is practiced by the Fathers receives the validity of tradition and has the 
  power of law in the Church of Christ (The Rudder, Neamts Monastery, 1844, 
  Canons 87, 91). Accordingly therefore, it must safeguarded since its importance 
  and benefit springs from the relationship that exists between it and Holy Scripture. 
  It is true that both have remained within a reciprocal unity and intimate relationship 
  - a relationship based on the fact that both comprise the holy revelation of 
  God and for us are the fount and source of Revelation. Hence, it is not possible 
  for there to exist an inner contradiction between the two or for us to exclude 
  one from the other. Holy Scripture possesses its unique witness of the scriptural 
  canon and its dogmatic character (its divine inspiration) only in and with Holy 
  Tradition, while Holy Tradition is able to prove the authenticity of its truth 
  only together with Holy Scripture.
Endnotes
1. There are scholars who 
  believe that, in fact, the writing of the three first Gospels is placed. . 
  . around the year 70 AD. (J. Karabidopoulos, Introduction to the New Testament, 
  p. 104 (In Greek))
2. The Elder here is referring 
  to the well-known seven Oecumenical Councils, however, in essence the Church 
  also accepts an eighth (879), which confirmed the rejection of the filioque 
  clause in the presence and with the support of the Church of Rome, and a ninth 
  (1341), which rejected the humanistic-scholastic theology of Barlaam in support 
  of the Hesychasts and St. Gregory Palamas. The truths expounded by these two 
  councils have helped to uphold the Church against the theological distortions 
  which have been brought to bear over the past 650 years, first in the West, 
  and soon thereafter in the East.
Ch. 3 from The Truth of Our Faith:
A Discourse from Holy Scripture on the Teachings of True Christianity,  by Elder 
Cleopa of Romania (Greece: Uncut Mountain Press, 2000). Order from Uncut Mountain Supply.
			AD HERE-->
