ContactSupport
.home .home-content,
.home.blog .blog-content {
	display: block;
}
.blog .home-content,
.blog-single .home-content,
.home .blog-content {
	display: none;
}
.pill {
    background-color: #eee;
    padding: 4px 14px;
    font-size: 0.8rem;
    border-radius: 13px;
    font-weight: 400;
    top: -5px;
    margin-left: 6px;
}
.header__logo {
    width: 90px;
    height: 90px
}
.header__top {
    height: 65px;
}
.header__top {
    z-index: 350;
}
Turn your visitors into loyal fans.Join over a million people who tell their story with a Safe As Milk theme.	
		    Venue Shopify$180Venue is the perfect theme for a growing artisanal business. Designed for innovative and active brands who need more from their website than just selling products online.A powerful combination of features will promote all of your activities. Whether it’s regular events, a physical store (or stores), a taproom or cafe, delivery services or your Youtube channel.Learn more View the demos 
			Get selling fasterVenue includes three presets to help your business hit the ground running and contains a killer combination of stunning fonts, tasteful colors and powerful layouts.01. Morning Preset View this demo02. Evening Preset View this demo03. Weekend Preset View this demoKey features01. Events feedIdeal for active brands who want to connect and interact with their fans in the real world.02. Sidebar filterCreate custom links to collections, brands and products to help your customers.03. Featured productPromote a single product by featuring it front and center on your home page.04. Multiple locationsDisplay a map, address, and store details for multiple store locations on your home page.05. Video galleryTalk directly to your audience by embedding up to six videos from your YouTube or Vimeo channel.06. Custom colorsKeep your branding strong with custom background colors on key sections and product pages.07. Third party deliveryPlug into the new delivery culture with a custom section linking to partners such as Uber Eats.08. Video in the slideshowGive some movement to your store with slick background videos in the slideshow.09. Agechecker popupVerify the age of your store’s visitors before they enter. Great for age-restricted products.Learn more	
		    Open your store todayTry Shopify free for 14 days. No risk, and no credit card required. Whether you sell online, on social media, in store, or our of the trunk of your car, Shopify has you covered.Start your trial 
				Tumblr themesOur simple but clever themes give you Tumblr superpowers. Great for all kinds of blogs; fashion, music, photograpghy, business, design, surfboards...you name it.Rodeo - $49Big, bold and extremely handsome, Rodeo will make your blog look better than ever.Indy Plus - $19Elegant, minimal and beautifully simple to set up, Indy Plus will make your blog look amazing.Japan - $49Versatile, beautiful and so easy to customize, Japan will be your blog's new best friend.Bone - $49With Bone, we’ve created the superb combination of an elegant grid with a classic side menu. Method - $49Turn down the noise and clear your mind with Method, the new ultra-minimal Tumblr theme.Method Dark - $49Method Dark is as ultra-minimal as its brother but just a bit more enigmatic and handsome. Tomahawk - $49Give your blog a glamorous magazine-style feel with Tomahawk, the Tumblr theme with both beauty and brains.Shifty - $49If simplicity is the ultimate sophistication then please allow us to introduce Shifty, our simplest theme yet.Shifty Dark - $49A dark version of one of the simplest, cleverest and popularest themes we've ever made.Mute - $49It’s time to return to the classics with Mute, a beautiful and iconic Tumblr theme with a modern twist.Melon - $49If you like to think a little differently, then meet Melon, our first horizontal scrolling theme.	-->-->-->-->-->Need a bespoke website?-->We also create bespoke client sites and we've worked with everyone from Red Bull to local startups. Get in touch to talk about building you a better home on the internet.-->-->-->-->-->Send an email-->--> -->-->-->-->New Shopify theme out now!We are incredibly pleased to announce that Venue, our first Shopify theme is now available to buy in the official theme store.Take a look hereVenue includes three presets to help your business hit the ground running. They are called Morning (apparel) , Evening (craft beer) and Weekend (jewellery and accessories) and contain a killer combination of stunning fonts, tasteful colours and powerful layouts. It’s easy to make your store look professional and stylish without any design skills.#blog#shopifystore#shopify#webdesign#ecommerce#apparel#jewelry#jewellery#craftbeer#craft#streetwear3 years agostaff:staff:Cabana, by TumblrHang out, watch stuff.iOS and Android Hey! We made a new iPhone app. It’s called Cabana and it’s for hanging out with friends and watching videos.Wait, a whole new app?Yup, a whole new app. Really? Yeah! It’s good. You just open it, video chat with up to five friends, and watch stuff together.Hey, neat. Anything else I should know?Nah, it’s pretty simple. It looks like that👇 . We’ve got some ideas about where to go with it, but hey, all in good time. &lt;3 TumblrOh, p.s., the Android version should be out in a few weeks. Enjoy. p.p.s., as promised, Cabana is now on Android. Have fun, Tumblr. #blog3 years agoFandometrics: The Week in Reviewthefandometrics:Some brand new babies, and those who have returned(Movies) To the surprise of approximately zero people, Wonder Woman earned the  No. 1 spot. To the surprise of maybe a few more than zero people, Baywatch made it to No. 16. (Celebrities) Thanks to Wonder Woman, director Patty Jenkins makes her wonderful debut at No. 9 and Chris Pine (No. 2) returns to the list for the first time since August 2016. (Video Games) The Walking Dead (No. 16) is an old favorite on our Television list, but this is the first time the video game has ranked. (Television) Sense8 (No. 4) returns, only because it’s leaving. The news of its cancellation was a bad way to kick off June. (Ships) Paperhat (Villainous’ Black Hat and Dr. Flug) debuts at No. 12.Originally posted by diana-prince Who knows CPR? These things need to be revived:(Music) Lana Del Rey (No. 17) fell eight spots while Katy Perry (No. 19) fell seven. Swish, swish. (Celebrities) It pains us to say it, but Misha Collins has stumbled eight spots to No. 15. What will it take to get him back up? We’ve already had so many Mishapocalypses. (Television) With all the hubbub about Wonder Woman, no one is paying attention to Supergirl (No. 13). She fell eight spots in one week. That’s not nearly as bad as The 100, a show that fell a record fourteen spots in a mere seven days.(Ships) Bellarke (The 100’s Bellamy Blake and Clarke Griffin) fell eight spots, but lands at a still impressive No. 11. The same can’t be said for Evak (Skam’s Even Bech Næsheim and Isak Valtersen), who is barely there at No. 20.Originally posted by nevener#blog(Source: fandom, via staff)3 years agothefandometrics:You did it. You went the long way around the sun and now you’re back for another Tumblr Year in Review. This year: 2016.What is Tumblr’s Year In Review?Why it’s all the top stuff on Tumblr. From all over Tumblr. Stacked and sorted by our very own Fandometrics, the pleasingly scientific system we use to rank your enthusiasm and love. Scan the categories below for the things you’re most enthusiastic about.The best of 2016, right this way please 👉TV: Live ActionThe stranger things in life: Zombies, teen wolves, big brothers, and Steven Moffat.TV: Animated Gems, ladybugs, and transformers start our top 20 list.Movies Superheroes and strong women. Not mutually exclusive.Solo artists 60% of your favorite musicians were women this year. Some of the others came from the Australian internet.BandsIn this year: Numbered groups. Out this year: The Beatles.Albums The oldest album on this list is from 2010. It’s old enough to go to Kindergarten.K-PopOnce you K-pop the fun don’t K-stop.ActressesA commander and scavenger walked into this list.Actors Sebastian Stan is our boyfriend now. Sorry, Chris-es.Models The first time we’ve seen two male models grace this list.Athletes With seven past and present members of the USWNT, we almost have a whole soccer team.Reality starsThe Kardashians continue to be your favorite family, but this list is 40% drag queens.Video games An indie game can beat out every major release this year. Take that, Big Game.Web stuffAssorted stuff from the internet.Social issues In a year of countless important conversations, these were the issues Tumblr talked about the most.Books How many lists can Dan and Phil appear on? Here’s another.Anime and MangaWe made a dubbed version of this list, but it was way worse than the original.ShipsSet sail on the S.S. Conceptual Relationship.Memes So much more than just a picture with bottom text.Tumblr communitiesNot every -blr on Tumblr, but the 20 that did the the most talking this year. From Artblr to the Simblr, Petblr to Applying-for-college-blr, welcome home.Art You’ll know it when you see it.Food Serving size: 1 list. Contains natural flavors. A good source of riboflavin. 100%DV fun.Animals You can domesticate about half of this list. Two of them may even be real!Tumblr Gets DeepWhen reblogs get witty, wise, or just straight-up WTF.(via fandom)#blog3 years agoConnect with usSubscribe to our occasional newsletter to get alerts for new themes, discounts and tips &amp; tricks. No spam guaranteed.Need support?You can tweet us, email us or have a read of our help center. We work 9am to 6pm (GMT), Monday to Friday.@safeasmilkcosupport@safeasmilk.cohelp center© 2019 Safe As Milk Themes, Brighton, England
