    just the way that the doc made me
    theo | he/she
        home
        profile
        message
        navigate
            greycrackedteapot asked:  I am Crunchy
        teapot this has been in my ask box for forever just because i like to look at it. you are Crumchy, i am Crisp
             7
            Anonymous asked:  to answer the question about pumice stones: they’re used to scrub callouses off the bottom of your feet
        thank you i asked my mom and she said pubbis stones are for the same thing except she said it’s made of volcanoes or whatever? my mom’s pretty smart she’s a pharmacist
             0
        diebythrs:completely legitimate my chem merch
             533
        mossy-cobble:mossy-cobble:AXOLOTLSI LOVE YOU
             2619
        animatedtext:requested by
galarian-inkay
             1244
        latining:anatomicdeadspace:Dutch resistance members celebrate at the moment they heard of Adolf Hitler’s death over the radio, May 1945. (Colorized)Blessed image.
             113736
        weaver-z:Obsessed with Eartha Kitt’s absolute power move of risking her entire career to drag Lyndon B. Johnson’s bitch ass so hard that his wife started crying
             82429
        civilizationkills:ok but anarcho primitivism IS when you go out to the woods to smoke weed and don’t come back 
             128
        retrofatass:still laughing my ass off to this
             23410
             2117
        micahulrichdraws:Mirror, for Insomnium, rough sketch and final ink.
             1021
        d1rtpunk:chrismaggio:RIP Harvey Ball, inventor of the smiley face 🙂 (1921-2001)ok its sad that he died but this is the FUNNIEST headstone ive ever seen
             80521
        anarcblr:pretentiouslimericks:Image transcript:“But what will you do with the lazy man, the man who does not want to work?” inquires your friend.That is an interesting question, and you will probably be very much surprised when I say that there is really no such thing as laziness. What we call a lazy man is generally a square man in a round hole. That is, the right man in the wrong place, And you will always find that when a fellow is in the wrong place, he will be inefficient or shiftless. For so-called laziness and a good deal of inefficiency are merely unfitness, misplacement. If you are compelled to do the thing you are unfitted for by your inclinations or temperament, you will be inefficient at it; if you are forced to do work you are not interested in, you will be lazy at it.anarchist-housewife:Think about this quote like all the time and how it really undermines so much shit in capitalismEnd transcript–Alexander Berkman, “What is Communist Anarchism?: Will Communist Anarchism Work?” (1929)
             17961
        ghoulishpumpkinz:Are you scared? | Jennifer’s Body (2009)
             1559
             625
        Profile
            theo
            trans, he/him pronouns only
            i like cryptids
            don't give me feminine compliments unless i love you
        About
            aesthetic blog, usually when i don't tag something it's either an aesthetic pic or it's queued. full about here.
        Currently
            Against Me! | BTS | Tyler, The Creator | It Looks Sad.
        Message
        Navigate
        links
            full about
            tags
            @ me in
            bf
            face
            theme
    next
