    just the way that the doc made me
    theo | he/she
        home
        profile
        message
        navigate
        archive-pdf:GILA Doll by Jun Takahashi of Undercover.[ INSTAGRAM: @archivepdf ]
             110
        music-daily:Megan thee Stallion for TIME’s Most Influential People of 2020Photographed by Dana Scruggs
             10542
        ohmy80s:Bill S.Preston, Esq Appreciation Post 
             1301
        homocowgirl:( NOW TERF FREE !!!!!!! )this was funny I’m mad please give it love now that me the actual fucken artist posted it 😐
             195
        labete-du-gevaudan:This photograph supposedly features the Loch Ness Monster. Author and Loch tour guide Ricky Phillips captured the image on December 13th, 2018 around 3pm. He claimed to be only 20 feet or so away from the creature when it breached the surface of the water. Phillips stated that “It was a grey creature - almost bird like - in a grey stretch of water. It’s neck was three to four feet long, a head the size of a rugby ball and a ridge across its eyes”. Because of his knowledge and history on the lake, the sighting is given more credibility with the Official Loch Ness Monster Sightings Registry. 
             200
        marilynmarijuana:The Pretty Reckless
             8568
        velocirapity64:squidglovesoff:velocirapity64:monsters-anxiety-and-good-vibes:velocirapity64:Aquaman as a name is so funny to me. Like was someone all “oh well we can’t just call him water man. Let’s make it spanish. But only half.”Waterhombre Oh fuck dudeNot to galaxy Brain, but if it’s Latin that they based it on, its AquahomoDUDE
             80516
        beautifulcnes:Beastie Boys (and a dog) at Capitol Records, c. 1992. 
             14
             3261
        weltinator:as-seenon-tv:I love working at joann fabrics today a guy asked me to show him the fake fur and when I did he goes “noooo… this won’t do” and part of my job is giving advice for projects so I asked him what he was using it for and he looks down at the floor and quietly says “… I wanna make a yeti costume to scare people with when we go skiing…”
             255104
        mysteries:Okay Among Us stannies. Reblog this and tag it with 1. you zodiac sign, 2. the color you main, and 3. whether you prefer playing Imposter and Crewmate
             9973
        fleshtown:shes fucking styling!!!might make dis into a series? o_o
             1423
        andieeebear:debbie harry’s tshirt game
             6193
        yugmat:
             593
        bluraycharles:emmablowguns:i’ve never felt more seen This is better than the LGBTQ section of netflix 
             113094
        Profile
            theo
            trans, he/him pronouns only
            i like cryptids
            don't give me feminine compliments unless i love you
        About
            aesthetic blog, usually when i don't tag something it's either an aesthetic pic or it's queued. full about here.
        Currently
            Against Me! | BTS | Tyler, The Creator | It Looks Sad.
        Message
        Navigate
        links
            full about
            tags
            @ me in
            bf
            face
            theme
    next
