            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing skygiants's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    skygiants(no subject)
                inner -->
(no subject)Aug. 2nd, 2020 04:08 pm
skygiantsOver the course of time when I was doing costume polls, several people politely asked me a.) what Hotel Del Luna is actually about andb.) is it goodThe answer to b.) is ... yes? I think it's yes! Like I know that I enjoyed it a tremendous about but also I think it is genuinely really very good; I found it not just a visual fashion feast but consistently surprising in really endearing ways. As for a.) .... yes, I'm sorry, it is time for another picspam.So the actual plot of Hotel del Luna is roughly as follows: once upon a time, bandit leader Jang Man Wol reached a point of peak murderous despair, killed a whole lot of people, and was sentenced by God to remain in eternal supernatural stasis managing a ghost hotel.(The woman whose throat she's holding a sword to is God, by the way. She shows up a fair amount.)Over the next several hundred years, Jang Man Wol changed her fashion sense, became a really ardent foodie, and acquired several loyal ghost employees, but did not make a single jot of emotional progress until a confused man wandered into her hotel and picked a leaf off her magic tree and she promptly pulled a full Beauty and the Beast and got him to promise her the right to his son's labor as ghost hotel manager twenty years later ... an investment plan!(The money did let little Gu Chan Seong get a full Harvard degree in hotel management, so honestly like ... as indentured servitude goes ... not that different from US public service loans ....)Anyway, when Jang Man Wol turns up again twenty years later, our hero Gu Chan Seong is not initially thrilled. However, armed with a new ability to see ghosts and a lot of genuinely extremely good Harvard-trained customer service skills, Gu Chan Seong soon becomes really invested in his mandate to help stressed-out ghosts have a nice and relaxing five-star vacation at Hotel del Luna before proceeding to the afterlife. Of course, as far as helping people move on to the afterlife goes, the final boss is ruthless, amoral, immensely powerful Jang Man Wol herself ... Gu Chan Seong has a strategy! His strategy is to aggresively damsel himself until she gets distracted from whatever morally bankrupt thing she was planning on doing that day and has to rescue him instead.To be clear: he never levels up. Jang Man Wol remains an enormously powerful supernatural being and Gu Chan Seong continues to be a sweet dude who's really good at hotel management and giving Jang Man Wol earnest Bambi eyes. I feel the need to specify this because it's such a complete swap of the usual gendered power dynamics in kdrama and it makes me very happy! I also love the rest of the cast ... my favorite is the murdered teen girl ghost who has possessed the body of her murderer, and is now really motivated to get justice for other murderees. This concept is so good that I honestly might steal it for my next D&amp;D character.The dude with her here, by the way, is also a ghost -- he's the hotel bellboy, who died tragically during the Korean war. They're very cute!Here are the other two hotel employees, who are both from different parts of the Joseon era.You may remember Room Manager Choi from her fabulous black widow outfit and she is also very dearly beloved, by me, and also by Jang Man Wol. They're vengeance buddies!Meanwhile, among the living, Gu Chan Seong has a very sweet roommate named Sanchez. I love their dynamic ... it is supportive, but also realistic!Sanchez does his best, but it takes him a little while to get used to the fact that his life is now approximately 1000% more filled with ghosts than it was before his roommate's new job and sometimes they come to crash at his house. Shout-out to the Grim Reaper, btw. A very chill coworker when he's not destroying errant and unrepentant souls out of the cycle of reincarnation. Let me be clear, though: the show has many hijinks and is often extremely funny, but it's also very much an exploration of loss, death, and grief. Rough to be a ghost! Rough to be a living human who's deeply attached to a ghost! One last thing that I truly and deeply love about the premise that is kind of a spoiler: you know I love a reincarnation story, and Hotel del Luna does have some reincarnation in it, but a thing I didn't even know I wanted until I got it was a reincarnation story where romance is very pointedly not the reincarnation? Jang Man Wol had an intense relationship in the past, and it's teased that Gu Chan Seong might be that guy, but in fact that is eventually comprehensively disproven: he is a totally new guy!!! You can move on from your tragic destiny and forge a relationship that's completely new! And as much as I love Chicago Typewriter, which is also about moving on from your tragic past, I deeply love introducing the premise of a past-life love interest and then going 'nah though.' Sometimes when you kill a guy you actually probably shouldn't get back together with him, and that's fine.
Tags:
hotel del luna,
kdrama
21 comments
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
no subjectDate:  2020-08-04 12:10 am (UTC)
From: laleia
I really liked this drama, but I don’t know that I would ever watch it again because I straight-up sobbed through the last 2 episodes and I don’t know if I could handle that again.  Also, the only reason I kept plowing through early episodes was because I appreciated the revise-Goblin/Hwayugi dynamic and because of IU’s outfits — otherwise I am way too much of a wimp and unable to handle scary scenes to have stuck through all the ghost scenes.  But I really appreciated and looked forward to your costume polls every week!  I usually lurk so don’t know if I’ve mentioned this before but I really appreciate your reviews.  I definitely add a lot to my to-read and to-watch lists based on your reviews, but it’s also fun when it’s something I’ve read/seen before!
Link
Reply
21 comments
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
                    inner -->
Profile
skygiants
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Network
Tags
Memories
Profile
October 2020
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
    123
45 6 78910
11121314151617
18192021222324
25262728293031
Most Popular Tags
arthuriana - 20 uses
avatar - 19 uses
baccano - 12 uses
barbara hambly - 14 uses
barbara michaels - 15 uses
big city hijinks - 24 uses
book year in review - 12 uses
booklogging - 1129 uses
capital scandal - 29 uses
costume polls - 23 uses
deep space nine - 23 uses
diana wynne jones - 41 uses
elizabeth wein - 11 uses
festivids - 14 uses
fic - 68 uses
frances hardinge - 13 uses
fullmetal alchemist - 42 uses
georgette heyer - 22 uses
hotel del luna - 16 uses
icons - 14 uses
joan aiken - 15 uses
kage baker - 11 uses
kdrama - 29 uses
laurence yep - 13 uses
les miserables - 18 uses
lois mcmaster bujold - 11 uses
manga - 35 uses
meme - 21 uses
memeage - 21 uses
mercedes lackey - 11 uses
movies - 52 uses
musicals - 21 uses
naoki urasawa - 22 uses
nonfiction - 109 uses
ouran - 11 uses
picspam - 22 uses
polls - 25 uses
princess tutu - 23 uses
published stuff - 12 uses
revolutionary girl utena - 21 uses
shakespeare - 13 uses
sherwood smith - 12 uses
star trek - 27 uses
star wars - 23 uses
terry pratchett - 40 uses
the clone wars - 13 uses
theater - 59 uses
top fives - 36 uses
yuletide - 44 uses
yumi tamura - 12 uses
Page Summary
laleia - (no subject)
Active Entries
1: (no subject)
2: (no subject)
3: (no subject)
4: (no subject)
5: (no subject)
6: (no subject)
7: (no subject)
Style Credit
Style:  by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:33 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
