            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing skygiants's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    skygiants(no subject)
                inner -->
(no subject)May. 16th, 2019 07:24 pm
skygiantsThe compulsion to re-experience some mediocre epic fantasy of my childhood appears to come on me like some sort of annual plague, which is why I have just read the entirety of The Belgariad. For those unfamiliar with these seminal works of Incredibly Fantasy-Shaped Fantasy, the plot is roughly as follows: Garion is a Simple Farmboy who is both secret long-lost royalty with a kingdom to inherit and the hero prophesied to defeat the evil god who sleeps in the evil empire! The prophecy also has a lot of other helpful information about what needs to happen when and where in order for the evil empire to be defeated, so Garion's long-suffering immortal sorcerous aunt and grandfather take him on a Grand Tour to chase a MacGuffin while he Comes Of Age and Grows Into His Destiny. Of course the MacGuffin Chase is really just the opportunity to visit various Fantasy Countries, each of which have a single national characteristic and will helpfully provide the quest with a single representative side character, such as:The Fantasy Vikings, whose representative side character can turn into a bear, and cannot be discussed without someone bringing up how rowdy they are! The Fantasy Saxons and Normans, whose representative side characters are respectively Will Scarlett and Lancelot, and cannot be discussed without someone bringing up how stupid they are! The Fantasy Romans, whose representative side character is Garion's destined fiancee, and cannot be discussed without someone bringing up how much they care about money! This one is a bit different because Garion's destined fiancee has her own characteristics: she is Tiny and Willful! We know this because the adjective 'tiny' is used in almost every sentence describing her and she spends most of her time onscreen throwing temper tantrums, but she and Garion will fall in love anyway because the prophecy says so. This is all very explicit. It's not even that destiny can't be struggled against, it's that nobody really even bothers to try, except Garion for maybe half a second, and then everyone tells him he's going through a sulky teen phase and to knock it off. And he promptly does! No glory in defying your fate in the Belgariad!Relatedly: the Fantasy Genocide Victims, whose representative character is a sexy slave woman whose Destined Romance after they rescue her is with a religious zealot who spends their first three months of acquaintanceship slut-shaming her for having been a slave! But it's all right, ~*~destiny~*~ wears him down and the Eddingses are sure they'll be very happy together. There's also a country of highly-exoticized snake people, who don't get a representative character because they're too busy sexily drugging and poisoning each other. And, of course, the Evil Country of the Evil God, which is composed largely of villainous human-sacrificing priests, merchants who are secretly villainous human-sacrificing priests, and extremely stupid and terrified sacrificial victims. (There's a lot of scenes in the beginning of Our Heroes riding into some kingdom and warning them to kick out all the merchants of Evil Nationality because they're secretly plotting something, which, uh, I think is probably not deliberately anti-Semitic, and yet .....) As it may be evident: these books are very readable and also they are not at all good. I think it would be very difficult for any adaptation to make them good; the orientalism, sexism, and plot determinism are completely baked into the premise. However, I have come up with one simple way to wildly improve them for me, personally. So the best character in the books, by far, is Polgara the Sorceress, aka Garion's long-suffering Aunt Pol. In the grand finale of the series, it turns out that the entire fate of the universe hinges and has always hinged on Polgara Definitively Rejecting the Evil God Despite His Attempts to Brainwash Her, which she does by drawing strength from her memories of her love interest! who has just been murdered! This love interest is Durnik, a sensible blacksmith who comes from the country of sensible people and whose entire role in the quest is to a.) die (and then be resurrected) at a key point in the plot so Polgara can Realize her Feelings and b.) pine silently after Polgara while making practical suggestions about how logistical plot difficulties could easily be fixed with some minor applications of IKEA furniture. OBVIOUSLY, DURNIK IS A LESBIAN. Imagine the bit where the gods are like "Polgara, if you choose this mortal we're going to take away your powers ... lol j/k instead we're just going to give your spouse powers too" except instead of 'it's weird if a husband is less powerful than his wife' it's 'now we have two gay sorceresses for the price of one.' Imagine if instead of the grand climax being Garion telling Polgara to remember her dead (but soon-to-be-resurrected) boyfriend so she can Reject Torak once and for all it's just Garion screaming "AUNT POL REMEMBER YOU'RE A LESBIAN!" Imagine. What a powerful scene. SyFy Channel, I hope you're reading this, because if someone makes this mediocre fantasy epic into a trashy tv series and changes only this, I will watch the entire damn thing. Anyway. The Belgariad! There's a bit in the beginning of the omnibus version I was rereading in which David Eddings talks proudly about how he was inspired to write it by wanting there to be more realist fantasy and how it broke away from previous patterns, which confused me enormously, because I think of the Belgariad as being, uh, wildly emblematic of its time, for sure, but not really ... a trailblazer .... anyway, if anyone who remembers the 80s and the fantasy scene wants to tell me if there is any grain of truth in this claim, I'd appreciate it! Soon, probably: The Mallorean, the sequel series, in which they do all the exact same things over again. "Then why are you going to read it?" Because I remember it being slightly better than the Belgariad! "Then why didn't you just read the Mallorean to begin with and skip the Belgariad entirely?" Because I'm a completionist who doesn't make good decisions!
Tags:
booklogging,
david eddings
146 comments
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
no subjectDate:  2019-05-17 08:20 pm (UTC)
From: ranalore
Oh, man.  I don't think I actually read these a million times when I was a teenager, but I certainly re-read them a lot, and I remember them with startling clarity.  But I know I realized at some point in my early twenties I hadn't touched them for several years, and was only holding onto them for sentimental reasons, so I donated them.  I can't say I've ever regretted that decision.
Link
Reply
Thread
Hide 4 comments
Show 4 comments
no subjectDate:  2019-05-21 12:56 am (UTC)
From: skygiants
Surprisingly, despite the number of times I read them, I don't think I ever actually owned them! Just checked them out from the library ... repeatedly. More, in fact, than was good for me. 
Link
Reply
Thread from start
Parent
Thread
Hide 3 comments
Show 3 comments
no subjectDate:  2019-05-21 01:04 am (UTC)
From: ranalore
All things considered, I would say once is probably more than is good for anyone.I feel it only right to state that I also, for my sins, owned and read probably the first six Shannara books, and the first Tad Williams trilogy.  I also owned the first seven Robert Jordan Wheel of Time books, but I got about a quarter of the way through the sixth one and abruptly had enough.  I sold those for a tidy sum, and I think that was the last of my interest in doorstop fantasy by dudes.
Link
Reply
Thread from start
Parent
Thread
Hide 2 comments
Show 2 comments
no subjectDate:  2019-05-21 02:42 am (UTC)
From: skygiants
I managed to dodge the Wheel of Time completely, but I read EVERY Shannara book ... and, uh, when I reread the Scions of Shannara series a few years ago, I found to my deep embarrassment that I still enjoyed them enormously. The power of nostalgia is strong! I could not get through a single Tad Williams fantasy novel but I also still have a sneaking love for his nonsense doorstopper cyberpunk quartet. 
Link
Reply
Thread from start
Parent
Thread
Hide 1 comment
Show 1 comment
no subjectDate:  2019-05-22 01:22 am (UTC)
From: ranalore
I managed to dodge the Wheel of Time completelyI envy you.  Just the memory is enough to make me twitchy.I don't know if I still have the Shannara books, since all my books are in storage on the other side of the country, but I'm pretty sure I got rid of them many years ago (I grew up military and am a former military spouse; my library is obscenely large by those standards, and always has been, but I had to do regular purges so as not to exceed the moving weight the military would pay for).  I think I do still have the Tad Williams, though, if only because I was in love with the Michael Whelan covers.  I bought a lot of questionable books because they had Whelan or Canty covers I loved.
Link
Reply
Thread from start
Parent
146 comments
Reply
Flat | Top-Level Comments Only
                    inner -->
Profile
skygiants
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Network
Tags
Memories
Profile
October 2020
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
    123
45 6 78910
11121314151617
18192021222324
25262728293031
Most Popular Tags
arthuriana - 20 uses
avatar - 19 uses
baccano - 12 uses
barbara hambly - 14 uses
barbara michaels - 15 uses
big city hijinks - 24 uses
book year in review - 12 uses
booklogging - 1129 uses
capital scandal - 29 uses
costume polls - 23 uses
deep space nine - 23 uses
diana wynne jones - 41 uses
elizabeth wein - 11 uses
festivids - 14 uses
fic - 68 uses
frances hardinge - 13 uses
fullmetal alchemist - 42 uses
georgette heyer - 22 uses
hotel del luna - 16 uses
icons - 14 uses
joan aiken - 15 uses
kage baker - 11 uses
kdrama - 29 uses
laurence yep - 13 uses
les miserables - 18 uses
lois mcmaster bujold - 11 uses
manga - 35 uses
meme - 21 uses
memeage - 21 uses
mercedes lackey - 11 uses
movies - 52 uses
musicals - 21 uses
naoki urasawa - 22 uses
nonfiction - 109 uses
ouran - 11 uses
picspam - 22 uses
polls - 25 uses
princess tutu - 23 uses
published stuff - 12 uses
revolutionary girl utena - 21 uses
shakespeare - 13 uses
sherwood smith - 12 uses
star trek - 27 uses
star wars - 23 uses
terry pratchett - 40 uses
the clone wars - 13 uses
theater - 59 uses
top fives - 36 uses
yuletide - 44 uses
yumi tamura - 12 uses
Page Summary
ranalore - (no subject)
Active Entries
1: (no subject)
2: (no subject)
3: (no subject)
4: (no subject)
5: (no subject)
6: (no subject)
7: (no subject)
Style Credit
Style:  by timeasmymeasure
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:43 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
