     Skip to Main Content
                                Community Profile
                    steam    
                    Join Community
                    Subscribe
                    Post to Community
                    Track
                        Gift Paid Account
            steam's Journal
      Free AccountCreated on 2009-04-23 09:36:39 (#118078), last updated 2009-12-22 (563 weeks ago)10 comments received  11 Journal Entries, 0 Tags, 0 Memories, 1 Icon UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:Private Community for Zuko and KataraLocation:(states/regions/territories)Membership:ClosedPosting Access:All Members  
                 Mini Bio
♫ keep me safe inside
Katara → She is a waterbender from the South Pole's water tribe. Katara is also very nurturing, acting as den mother for the group. Being very stubborn, she is sometimes hurt when she wants to help people who just are beyond help. Kind, brave and passionate, Katara will fight through any battle if only to protect her loved ones. All in all, she is a very kind, beautiful and loving person. The waterbender is a strong and independent woman whom fights alongside her friends and family for what she believes is right. 
Zuko → He is a firebending prince from the Fire Nation. He believes that his struggles have made him a wiser and stronger human being. He is frequently impatient and arrogant. He is also shown as loving deeply and honestly (he is a very honest person in general, and as such is often oblivious to the duplicity of others) to certain individuals who earn his trust. He is deeply protective of those he loves. Although he rarely shows his feelings, he is unusually good at helping and dealing with the issues and problems of others, making him the group's "agony aunt" when he is in a relaxed state of mind.
katara | zuko | steam | profile coding your arms like towers ♪
                Administrators
                    Administrators (2):
             katara, littleglassvial 
                Members
                [View Entries]
                    Members (2):
             katara, littleglassvial 
                    Subscribers (2):
             katara, littleglassvial 
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
