https://trainingindustry.com/continuing-professional-development/master-classes/beyond-implementation-internal-consulting-master-class/
Training Industry
Site Menu
Section
Topics
Certifications & Courses
Industry
Talk to us
Beyond Implementation: Internal Consulting Master Class

The most effective training professionals are not only skilled at training design and delivery, but also act as strong internal consultants who partner with business stakeholders to facilitate a deep understanding of organizational challenges and goals. Together, they build and implement solutions that drive business results.
This highly interactive, half-day virtual master class will equip you with tools and tactics for managing the consulting process at your organization. You will learn about the consulting process and the basics of contracting, as well as strategies for gaining executive buy-in. Based on the strategic competencies defined in the  Training Manager Competency Model™, this course will prepare you for your role in partnering with internal clients.
TAKE THE NEXT STEP
Attend the internal consulting master class and take your career L&D to the next level with its targeted focus on your ability to successfully partner with your organization as an effective and credible internal consultant.
Download a copy of the program flyer to learn how this course can benefit you and your training function, and contact us if you have any questions.
View upcoming course dates for this program. View the entire professional development catalog.

Contact Us View Flyer

Training Industry’s master classes have been pre-approved to fulfill four Certified Professional in Training Management (CPTM™) recertification credit hours.
Learn how the Internal Consulting master class can help you earn recertification credits for other leading HR and training certifications, including SHRM, HRCI and ATD credentials.





Footer
The most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
Free Digital Subscription
Perspectives and expertise by and for learning leaders.
Footer Menu
Legal Menu
©2020 Training Industry
Stay up to date on the latest articles, webinars and resources for learning and development.
