https://trainingindustry.com/privacy/
Training Industry
Site Menu
Section
Topics
Certifications & Courses
Industry
Talk to us
Privacy
OUR COMMITMENT TO YOUR PRIVACY
Training Industry, Inc. respects your privacy. Because we gather certain types of information about our users, we feel you should fully understand the terms and conditions surrounding the capture and use of that information. More information about how we use collected data is included in our Terms of Use.
This privacy statement discloses what information we gather and how we use it.
INFORMATION THAT IS GATHERED AND TRACKED
Training Industry, Inc. gathers two types of information about individuals:
Information that individuals provide through optional, voluntary submissions: We receive this information voluntarily from individuals who seek to interact with Training Industry in a variety of forms. This includes voluntary form submissions on TrainingIndustry.com to receive our electronic newsletters and other publications; to attend webinars and other events; to inquire about and/or participate in professional development courses or activities; to participate in research surveys or polls; and/or to share information with us through a written inquiry, request, or drawing entry form.
Information Training Industry, Inc. gathers through tracking information derived from visitor behavior and interactions with our website and digital communications: This information allows us to better understand our readers’ interests and tailor our content accordingly and also to help our advertisers and sponsors better understand the interests, behavior and demographics of our audience. Under no circumstance does Training Industry, Inc. divulge any information about an individual user to any third party, except and until compelled by force of law.
Optional Voluntary Information
Training Industry, Inc. offers a variety of information and resources to our customers and site visitors, many of which require the voluntary submission of personal information:

CHILDREN
Training Industry, Inc. does not authorize the use of our website by minors under the age of 16 years, consistent with the terms of the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the United States Children’s Online Privacy Act of 1998 (COPPA) and will never request the personal information of minors without parental consent.
USAGE TRACKING
Training Industry, Inc. tracks user traffic patterns throughout all of our sites, including overall usage statistics and information on a user’s originating IP address; browser type; and other information related to the website session, including the URL of Training Industry web pages viewed and the length of time spent on individual pages. Additionally, information you enter into our site search may be stored and cataloged; we use this information to help us improve our services.
COOKIES
By using our website, you consent to our use of cookies. We use browser cookies to understand your use of our site(s). While these files do not in themselves contain personal information, they do enable us to understand your use of the site and to associate your site usage with other information you have provided to us.
Training Industry, Inc. uses cookies to track user navigation, such as remembering language preferences or the currency used for a purchase, to track advertising impressions and click rates, and to support remarketing (display ads served on third-party websites by vendors such as Google). Training Industry, Inc. uses this information to improve the user’s next visit and facilitate easier use of the site.
You may refuse cookies by turning them off in your browser. If you’ve set your browser to warn you before accepting cookies, you will receive the warning message with each cookie. You do not need to have cookies turned on to use this site. However, you do need cookies enabled in order to participate in all features of our site. By using our site(s), you consent to our policy and use of cookies.
USE OF INFORMATION
Training Industry, Inc. uses any information voluntarily given by our users to enhance their experience on our sites, whether to provide interactive or personalized elements on the sites or to better prepare future content based on their interests.
As stated above, we use information that users voluntarily provide in order to send electronic newsletters and publications and to enable users to participate in polls, surveys, forums and events. We send newsletters to subscribers on a regular schedule (depending on the newsletter) and occasionally send special editions when we think subscribers might be particularly interested in something.
We use tracking information to determine which areas of our sites users like and don’t like, based on traffic to those areas. This helps us continue to build a better service for our audience. We track search terms entered in the search function as one of many measures of what interests our users.
We use third-party advertising companies to serve ads when users visit our website. These companies may use information (not including individuals’ name, address, email address or telephone number) about their visits to this and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to them. More information about this practice and users’ choices about not having this information used by these companies is located here.
Training Industry, Inc. creates aggregate reports on user demographics and traffic patterns for advertisers, sponsors and partners. These reports allow our advertisers to advertise more effectively and allow our users to receive advertisements that are pertinent to their needs. Because we don’t track the usage patterns of individual users for advertisers, an advertiser or sponsor will never know that a specific user clicked its ad, unless that user specifically shares his or her contact information with that advertiser. We will not disclose any information about any individual user except to comply with applicable law or valid legal process or to protect the personal safety of our users or the public.
SHARING OF THE INFORMATION
Training Industry, Inc. uses the above-described information to tailor our content to suit users’ needs and help our advertisers better understand our audience’s demographics. This process is essential to keeping our service free.
When you share your contact details with Training Industry to access sponsored content, you authorize us to share your information with the respective third-party or sponsor company. We request your consent in advance of sharing with said third party or sponsor company. If you do not consent to your information being used as specified on a Training Industry form, do not complete or submit the form.
We will not share information about individual users with any unrelated third party, except to comply with applicable law or valid legal process or to protect the personal safety of our users or the public.
SECURITY
Training Industry, Inc. operates secure data networks protected by industry-standard firewall and password protection systems. Our security and privacy policies are periodically reviewed and enhanced as necessary, and only authorized individuals have access to the information provided by our customers.
OPT-OUT POLICY
Your use of the Training Industry site(s) is entirely voluntary, as is your decision about information you elect to share with Training Industry, Inc.
If you choose to opt-out of our email newsletters, you may do so at any time. We include unsubscribe information in every email we send.
YOUR CONSENT
By using this site, you consent to the collection and use of this information by Training Industry, Inc. This Privacy Policy is updated periodically. The current policy will always be posted on our site, so you always are aware of what information we collect, how we use it and under what circumstances we disclose it.
FOR INDIVIDUALS LOCATED IN THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA OR WHO ARE SUBJECT TO THE EUROPEAN UNION GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION
The terms of this section apply to you if you are located in the European Economic Area or are an individual otherwise covered by the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). By using this site, you provide affirmative consent that you have read, understand and agree with the Training Industry, Inc. Privacy Policy and Terms of Use (“terms”) and further acknowledge that if you do not consent to, understand and agree with these terms, you are not authorized to continue use of our site(s).
Training Industry, Inc. is a data controller as defined by the GDPR. Within our normal scope of business, your personal data may be shared with third-party data processors, without which our service(s) would not be possible. To access the current list of third-party data processors, click here.
Although the UK has withdrawn from the EU. There will be a transition period until the end of 2020 to allow time to negotiate a new relationship with the EU. During this transition period the GDPR will continue to apply in the UK.
Legal Basis For Processing
Training Industry, Inc. processes personal data, as provided, with the clear and affirmative consent of the individual. We prompt for such consent at all data-gathering points, but in order to avoid ambiguity, no user is authorized to use Training Industry, Inc. website(s) or resources without providing affirmative consent of their understanding of and agreement to our published Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Persons who do not understand and consent to these terms must not use our site(s).
Data Breach Reporting
Training Industry, Inc. will promptly notify any affected users and appropriate supervisory authorities of a data breach within data structures directly controlled by us or, as appropriate, as any such material data breach is reported to us by any of our third-party data processors, as specified by Articles 33 and 34 of the GDPR.
Data Protection Officer
Training Industry’s Data Protection Officer may be contacted by emailing info@trainingindustry.com.
Data Access and Erasure
Data subjects have the right to request a report of how their personal data exist in our database(s) and to request that such data be erased in certain circumstances. All such requests must be verifiably submitted by the individual seeking access to or erasure of their own data. Erasure is subject to certain limitations, including whether Training Industry, Inc. and/or our data processors asserts a legal requirement or right to preserve the data.
After a request is received, Training Industry, Inc. will comply as fully as possible. If full compliance is not possible, we will specify the degree to which we are unable to comply and for what reason. In the event of personal data erasure, Training Industry, Inc. may anonymize the related and non-personal data associated with the individual, including but not limited to web tracking, email tracking, transactions and survey responses.
Data Rectification
Training Industry, Inc. will, to the best of our ability, promptly rectify inaccuracies in personal data that are verifiably brought to the attention of our Data Protection Officer by the subject individual.
Automated Decision-Making
Training Industry, Inc. employs automated processes to align the content our users experience with our profile of their interests. This automated decision-making is not legally or otherwise significant for the purposes of the GDPR, and Training Industry does not engage in fully automated decision-making that has a legal or otherwise significant effect on an individual data subject.
Data Protection and Security
Training Industry, Inc. operates secure data networks protected by industry-standard firewall and password protection systems. Our security and privacy policies are periodically reviewed and enhanced as necessary, and only authorized individuals have access to the information provided by our customers. Our website(s) employ HTTPS data encryption.
FOR INDIVIDUALS LOCATED IN THE COUNTRY OF BRAZIL OR WHO ARE SUBJECT TO GENERAL LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
The terms of this section apply to you if you are located in the country of Brazil or who are subject to general law for the protection of personal data (LGPD). By using this site, you provide affirmative consent that you have read, understand and agree with the Training Industry, Inc. Privacy Policy and Terms of Use (“terms”) and further acknowledge that if you do not consent to, understand and agree with these terms, you are not authorized to continue use of our site(s). Training Industry, Inc. is a data controller as defined by the LGPD. Within our normal scope of business, your personal data may be shared with third-party data processors, without which our service(s) would not be possible. To access the current list of third-party data processors, click here.
CALIFORNIA’S CONSUMER PRIVACY ACT
Training Industry, Inc. has taken steps to comply with the California Consumer Privacy Act as it applies to gathering and exchange of personal data in the B2B context. Residents of the State of California consent to the personal information they provide being used by Training Industry, Inc. for internal marketing purposes and shared with sponsors and exhibitors who may contact you in relation to special offers, products and services related to your role within your company. You have the right to opt-out of this use of your personal information. You can exercise this right at any time through your contact preference center in the footer of marketing emails you may receive from us.
CANADA’S ANTI-SPAM LEGISLATION
Training Industry, Inc. has taken all reasonable steps to comply with Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation. We only email contacts with whom we have had a business relationship within the last 2 years, individuals who may have enquired about an event in the last 6 months, opted in to receive our communication, or where the message is relevant to the person’s business role.
Share
Footer
The most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
Free Digital Subscription
Perspectives and expertise by and for learning leaders.
Footer Menu
Legal Menu
©2020 Training Industry
