https://trainingindustry.com/training-companies-offering-free-coronavirus-products-and-services/
Training Industry
Site Menu
Section
Topics
Certifications & Courses
Industry
Talk to us
Training Companies Offering Free Products and Services During the Coronavirus Pandemic
In light of the business and training issues created by the coronavirus pandemic, we’ve curated a list of free training products and services companies in our industry are now offering:
Thriving in the “New Normal” and Returning to Work
ADP is offering a free virtual summit on recovery and engagement. Click here to access.
Skillsoft is offering a free “leadercamp” on “leading in the new normal.” Click here to access.
Vubiz is offering free courses on returning to work and coronavirus preparedness. Click here to access.
Cinecraft produced a short video, based on Centers for Disease Control guidelines, to help companies prepare for returning to work. Click here to access.
Purdue University Global is offering a free COVID-19 contact tracing course. Click here to access.
The Center for Leadership Studies has a free “returning to work” handbook and a free field guide to safely conducting in-person training. Click here to access the handbook. Click here to access the field guide.
inviteCHANGE is offering a free return to work initiative, including pro bono coaching. Click here to access.
BLR has a post-pandemic return-to-work checklist. Click here to access.
GuideSpark launched “The Connected Enterprise: The New Work Model,” a leadership series. Click here to access.
Since the COVID-19 pandemic started, Emotion In Motion has made its Daily Genius Nugget freely available to everybody to assist with these difficult times. Click here to access.
Winning Mindset Solutions is offering a free live webinar for business and sales teams, “Developing a Winning Mindset in Business/Sales,” specific to working during the pandemic. Click here to access.
GRC Solutions is offering free eLearning on working from home, returning to the office and managing other issues regarding working during the COVID-19 pandemic. Click here to access.
Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Training
OpenSesame is offering unlimited free access to coronavirus preparedness and remote work training and free “return to work” courses through June 15, 2020. Click here to access preparedness courses. Click here to access “return to work” courses.
Relias is offering free training and resources to help organizations and individuals prepare and prevent the spread of infection. Click here to access.
The American Association for Clinical Chemistry and Area9 Lyceum have released an adaptive learning module on COVID-19. It is available for free to medical and laboratory professionals. Click here to access.
Area9 Lyceum has additional courses available for medical and other professionals on safety and working from home. Click here to access.
DeltaNet International has launched a free, short course on preventing infectious diseases. Click here to access.
Headspace is offering free Headspace Plus subscriptions to health care professionals working in public health settings in the U.S. through 2020. Click here to access.
Cornerstone OnDemand and the Cornerstone OnDemand Foundation launched Cornerstone Cares, an online destination with free learning content. Click here to access.
BizLibrary has a free video lesson on preparing for an epidemic. Click here to access.
Southern New Hampshire University, in partnership with Penn Foster and Guild Education, is offering free training on workplace safety during the pandemic. Click here to access.
WILL Interactive is offering a health care-associated infection prevention training program free for U.S. health care facilities. (Use code TI.) Click here to access.
SafetyTek is offering a free COVID-19 workforce health analysis solution. Click here to access.
AllenComm, in partnership with the Columbia University Department of Psychiatry, has released an online learning experience sharing five tips for facing COVID-19 anxieties. Click here to access.
BetterU and OttoLearn have partnered to offer a free online tool kit offering personal and professional resources on a variety of subjects related to COVID-19. Click here to access.
ej4 has videos available to help alleviate employee fears around the coronavirus and to help organizations plan for a pandemic. Click here to access.
SkyPrep is offering free courses on COVID-19 preventive measures and best practices for remote working to SkyPrep users. Click here to access.
SAP Litmos is offering a free Remote Readiness and Productivity Academy through the end of June 2020. Click here to access.
360training is offering a free COVID-19 awareness course. Click here to access.
Nimble Elearning is offering a free COVID-19 awareness course. Click here to access.
Partner4Success is offering free group tele-coaching on managing change. Click here to access.
Vector Solutions is offering free courses for related to coronavirus response. Click here to access.
DuPont Sustainable Solutions is offering a free microlearning series on COVID-19 response. Click here to access.
dominKNOW is offering free one-year teams licensing of its platform to medical and education teams. Click here to access.
Intrepid is offering free access to its platform for all learning programs focused on COVID-19 education, awareness and communication provided by healthcare or non-governmental organizations. Click here to access.
Axonify is offering free training content on hygiene and working from home for frontline workers. Click here to access.
Alchemy is offering free courses and other resources for manufacturers and food processors. Click here to access.
Overnite Software Inc. is offering a free coronavirus awareness course and free 60-day access to its learning management  system (LMS). Click here to access the course. Click here to access the LMS offer.
The Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) and National Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD) are offering free on-demand training for entry-level COVID-19 contact tracers. Click here to access.
OrgVitality is offering free access to a pulse survey for organizations to measure their employees’ needs and their thoughts on the organization’s response to the COVID-19 crisis. Click here to access.
Vubiz is offering free courses on returning to work and coronavirus preparedness. Click here to access.
Coursera has a free course on contact tracing. Click here to access.
Brandau Power Institute has a free video on how to “prevent a mental meltdown.” Click here to access.
Training for Remote Work
OpenSesame is offering unlimited free access to coronavirus preparedness and remote work training for any organization through May 15, 2020. Click here to access.
GoCoach is offering a free course on remote employee management training. Click here to access.
DDI is offering a free online micro-course on leading virtual meetings. Click here to access.
BizLibrary has a free playlist of video lessons on how to work from home, on cybersecurity while working from home and on mental health. Click here to access the “work from home” playlist. Click here to access the cybersecurity playlist. Click here to access the mental health playlist.
Energage launched a free, on-demand podcast series aimed at helping organizations maintain a connection with employees during the pandemic. Click here to access.
Intrepid has a free on-demand webinar sharing training options and best practices to help sales leaders supplement their in-person sales performance initiatives with digital options. Click here to access.
Henley Leadership Group is offering a series of virtual events on leading during times of change. Registration is free or with an optional donation, which will be given to the Seattle Foundation COVID-19 Response Fund. Click here to access.
Imparta is offering a free webinar on sales skills during the pandemic. Click here to access.
LearnQuest is offering free access to webinars on remote working, managing remote teams and other IT topics to help people invest in themselves and advance their skills. Click here to access.
Skillsoft has gathered a collection of free resources, including training videos, on business continuity and remote work. Click here to access.
Impact is offering a series of free webinars and virtual think tanks exploring leading through disruption, managing change and delivering virtual learning. Click here to access.
Global Knowledge is offering its course on managing remote teams for free. Click here to access.
eLearning Brothers is offering free training courses on how to work remotely. Click here to access.
Coston Dorsey is offering a free class on how to work remotely on March 27. Click here to access.
Capsim Management Simulations Inc. is offering free simulations and assessments to help organizations transition to virtual work. Click here to access.
FUEL has several recorded webinars available on how to work remotely. Click here to access.
Glass of Learning has a series of recorded webinars on how to work from home. Click here to access.
SAP Litmos is offering a free Remote Readiness and Productivity Academy through the end of June 2020. Click here to access.
The Global Mentor Network is offering a free series of live “Ask a Mentor” Q&A sessions for leaders and parents guiding organizations and families through the pandemic. Click here to access.
Showpad, in partnership with Winning by Design, is offering free courses and other resources on remote selling. Click here to access.
SkyPrep is offering free courses on COVID-19 preventive measures and best practices for remote working to SkyPrep users. Click here to access.
Udacity and Upwork are offering a free course on managing remote teams. Click here to access.
Conduent is offering free webinars and other resources on remote work for managers and employees. Click here to access.
The Remote Leadership Institute has a four-part video series on how to lead remotely. Click here to access.
The Kevin Eikenberry Group has a mini-webinar series on remote work. Click here to access.
RAIN Group is offering a webinar on virtual learning. Click here to access.
TTI Success is offering a free remote work assessment and custom report. Click here to access.
IIL is offering its course on virtual agile teams for free. Click here to access.
Global Learning Systems is offering a course on cybersecurity for remote teams. Click here to access.
MLevel has free learning modules on Microsoft Teams and mental well-being. Click here to access.
Axonify is offering free training content on hygiene and working from home for frontline workers. Click here to access.
Learning Tribes is offering a free learning path on remote work. Click here to access.
Springboards Consulting is offering a free remote communications coaching session. Click here to access.
SalesBuzz.com is offering a free on-demand class on phone selling. Click here to access.
Corralling Chaos is offering a free course on remote management. Click here to access.
NIIT and its division Eagle Productivity Solutions are offering a complimentary remote work excellence tool kit, a comprehensive course. Click here to access.
Mandel has free on-demand training and webinars on virtual communication. Click here to access.
NovoEd is offering free training and recordings on moving in-person training online. Click here to access.
Impact-Coaches Inc. has an on-demand webinar on “maintaining the client connection during times of uncertainty.” Click here to access.
The Remote Sales and Customer Success Alliance is offering free courses and tools for remote sales training and enablement. Click here to access.
Fingerprint For Success has a remote team communication quiz. Click here to access.
The Remote Leader Project is offering free self-paced learning on virtual leadership. Click here to access.
Kantola is offering free courses and other resources on preventing harassment in the remote workplace. Click here to access.
SGEi is offering a free virtual leadership coaching series. Click here to access.
SUPER*MEGA*BOSS is offering a free SMS-based course on virtual work. Click here to access.
Brandau Power Institute has free webinar recordings on how to be productive while working from home and how to host virtual meetings. Click here to access the first recording. Click here to access the second recording.
GRC Solutions is offering free eLearning on working from home, returning to the office and managing other issues regarding working during the COVID-19 pandemic. Click here to access.
Remote Work and Remote Training Products and Services
Organizations new to Panopto may use Panopto Cloud for free for three months to capture and stream unlimited video. Click here to access.
SpiderOak is offering its basic secure chat application for free to any commercial or government group or enterprise. Click here to access.
HR Acuity is providing a free version of its SaaS solution to help businesses manage employee issues related to the Coronavirus outbreak. Click here to access.
Velsoft Training Materials is offering unrestricted access to its learning management system. Click here to access.
Engagedly is offering a suite of remote work products for free until September 30, 2020. Click here to access.
Google is offering free access to its advanced Hangouts Meet capabilities to all G Suite customers. Click here to access.
SHL is offering its virtual solutions suite at no charge during the pandemic. Click here to access.
eLearning Brothers has a free online training starter pack that includes layouts, a customizable quiz and graphics. Click here to access.
SalesHood is offering its sales enablement platform for free during the COVID-19 pandemic. Click here to access.
renaizant is offering its AI-based performance management platform for free through July 31. Click here to access.
Butterfly.ai is offering free access to its pulse survey tools for frontline workers for 90 days. Click here to access.
Trivantis is offering free Lectora Online team plans through June 30, 2020 to academic organizations. Click here to access.
Prezentt is offering its product for free to individuals through July 31. Click here to access.
Dozuki is providing free three-month access to its software to businesses impacted by coronavirus, essential businesses and businesses switching to medical supply production. Click here to access.
For six months, Altoura is offering free licenses to its VR/AR training and collaboration software for organizations working to discover a COVID-19 vaccine and organizations that are manufacturing health care supplies. Click here to access.
Cyberbit is offering free cyber range training to organizations impacted by COVID-19. Click here to access.
Skillsoft is offering free 60-day access to its learning experience platform, Percipio. Click here to access.
Tesseract is offering free courses on business continuity and remote learning and free 90-day access to its microlearning platform, KREDO. Click here to access courses. Click here to access KREDO.
LemonadeLXP is offering free access to its learning experience platform as well as its digital staff and customer onboarding tool. Click here to access the LXP. Click here to access the onboarding tool.
erwin, Inc. is offering free access to its Work From Home Impact Manager. Click here to access.
Elucidat is offering free support in moving face-to-face training online, including access to resources, webinars, self-directed activities and one consulting call. Click here to access.
IntranetPro is offering a free year of its internal communications platform. Click here to access.
aNewSpring is offering a free “MiniMOOC” on online social learning. Click here to access.
EduMe is offering its mobile training and communication platform for free to organizations fighting COVID-19. Click here to access.
Modest Tree is offering free access to Modest3D Xplorer, its training software. Click here to access.
Free Courses
Six Seconds is offering some online classes for free on topics such as leadership and change. Click here to access.
Packt is offering free workshops for registered Packt users. Click here to access.
Impact is offering a series of free webinars and virtual think tanks exploring leading through disruption, managing change and delivering virtual learning. Click here to access.
SAP released a digital learning initiative with free enterprise MOOCs, university learning journeys and a “young thinkers” program. Click here to access.
CompTIA, in partnership with BenchPrep, is providing free 30-day licenses for the CertMaster Learn eLearning course for CompTIA IT Fundamentals for displaced workers, students and career-changers. Click here to access.
Udacity is offering a free month of nondegree programs to help workers impacted by COVID-19. Click here to access.
Security Innovation created a community page of free cybersecurity resources, including courses. Click here to access.
Simplilearn is offering 13 comprehensive digital skills courses for free on its Android mobile app (free to download). Click here to access.
getAbstract is offering free access to its full library until May 18. Click here to access.
Britt Andreatta is offering a free self-paced course through June 30 on how to successfully navigate your work life and personal life through this global change. Click here to access.
Dale Carnegie is offering a free online, on-demand session on handling stress and supporting resilience in times of crisis. Click here to access.
The American Society of Safety Professionals is offering its on-demand education sessions for free with code LEARNFREE. Click here to access.
Sponge is offering a free cybersecurity course during the pandemic. Click here to access.
Shaw Academy is offering free access to its four-week courses. Click here to access.
The National Restaurant Association’s ServSuccess program, in partnership with the American Hotel & Lodging Foundation (AHLA Foundation), is offering five courses for free to industry professionals through April. Click here to access.
Axiom Learning Solutions is offering its Microsoft Office courses for free in April with code work-home. Click here to access.
Udemy is offering some of its courses for free, including a mini-series for leaders. Click here to access the mini-series. Click here to access other free courses.
Pluralsight is offering free tech courses for the month of April. Click here to access.
Every Tuesday in April, Metis is offering a free introductory series on Python. Click here to access.
Degreed is offering several course pathways for free. Click here to access “Choosing Resilience.” Click here to access “Building Trust Across Teams.” Click here to access “Wellness for People Leaders.” Click here to access “Employee Wellness for HR and L&D.”
Kaplan is offering free and discounted courses to employees who are furloughed, laid off or otherwise affected by COVID-19 as well as free professional and personal skills fitness classes. Click here to access courses for furloughed or laid-off workers. Click here to access skills fitness classes.
PSI is offering free 12-week access to its emotional intelligence program. Click here to access.
ServSafe is offering free food safety courses and career development courses for food and hospitality workers. Click here to access.
CyberVista is offering free access to its “Critical Knowledge Diagnostic” to qualifying organizations and individuals through May 31. Click here to access.
Fierce Inc. is offering a free communication course. Click here to access.
BizLibrary is offering free access to online training for furloughed and laid-off workers on topics such as career advancement, Microsoft Online, interviewing, social networking and programming. Click here to access.
Genos International is offering a free masterclass on dealing with the stress of the pandemic. Click here to access.
Sprintwell is hosting a free virtual summit on burnout. Click here to access.
KnowledgeCity is offering free courses on topics such as emotional intelligence, productivity, adaptive thinking, coping with change and Microsoft. Click here to access.
Elephant Scale is offering free courses on machine learning and DevOps. Click here to access.
IBM is offering free courses on its technologies. Click here to access.
TrainUp.com is offering free training content in response to the global pandemic. Click here to access.
Stronger offers free cybersecurity training online. Click here to access.
General Assembly is now offering “Free Fridays.” Click here to access.
Other Services
GoCoach is offering free career transition coaching to anyone who has lost his or her job due to the coronavirus pandemic. Click here to access.
Salesforce is offering Quip Start Edition for free to any Salesforce customer through September 30, 2020. Click here to access.
Tableau is providing a free data resource hub to help organizations visualize and understand how the coronavirus is impacting employees in their offices around the world and make data-driven decisions. Click here to access.
Wanido is offering its employee engagement and well-being solution for free between April 1 and August 1. Click here to access.
Zapier created a $1 million assistance program for its small business customers. Click here to access.
Infosec Institute is offering a scholarship during this time of uncertainty. Click here to access.
Manufacturing companies that are giving back during the COVID-19 crisis can receive a free six-month subscription to SwipeGuide Pro. Click here to access.
The Anthony Cole Training Group has a recorded webinar available on selling in unprecedented times. Click here to access.
Cappfinity is offering free Strengths Profiles. Click here to access.
LHH is offering small businesses free 30-day access to virtual job search resources for their furloughed and laid off employees. Click here to access.
Axonify is offering its grocery onboarding course for free using the Axonify app. Click here to access.
Skilled is offering free services for individuals and companies, including mentorship, career mentoring and mock interviews. Click here to access.
Impact is offering free live Q&As on different challenges, hosted by their coaches. Click here to access.
The Training Officers Consortium also has a list of free resources to help during this time. Click here to access.
Epiphany Coaches is offering free executive and team coaching sessions during the pandemic. Click here to access.
Eightfold.ai has a free talent exchange for workers affected by COVID-19. Click here to access.
High schooler Sophia Joffe created a database of online learning sites. Click here to access.
Weighing your training delivery options now and in the future? Complete the form below to download our free e-book on training delivery:

Share
Footer
The most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
Free Digital Subscription
Perspectives and expertise by and for learning leaders.
Footer Menu
Legal Menu
©2020 Training Industry
Stay up to date on the latest articles, webinars and resources for learning and development.
