          User Experience Research Sign Up
              Get all the details on Google user research studies.
              Want to know more before signing up? Check out the questions and answers below.
                  What kinds of people are you looking for?
                  All kinds! You don’t need to be a Google user, computer expert, or technology
                  enthusiast to sign up. We’d like to talk to anyone over the age of 18 who’s ever
                  used the Internet in any way.
                  I don't live near a Google office. Can I still sign up?
                  Absolutely. Most of our studies take place in person at our California offices in
                  Mountain View, San Francisco, and San Bruno; our Washington offices in Seattle and Kirkland; and our New York office in Manhattan.
                  But even if you don’t live near a Google office, you may be still able to
                  participate in a study remotely via your computer or mobile device.
                  So what will I do in these studies?
                  When you sign up, you can choose the types of studies that interest you. Here’s
                  some info about the different studies and how they work:
                  Usability study at a Google office
                  These studies work best for people who live close to one of our offices. Typically,
                  you’ll meet one-on-one with a Google researcher who’ll ask you some questions,
                  have you use a new or existing product, and then get your feedback.
                  Remote usability study
                  In these studies, we’ll gather your feedback via a screen-sharing session with a
                  researcher or a website where you can try something out on your own. You can be
                  almost anywhere in the world, but you’ll need to have a high-speed Internet
                  connection.
                  Experiential sampling study
                  These studies require a small amount of activity every day for several days or
                  weeks. Google researchers will ask you to respond to questions or take notes
                  about your experience of using a product, and you’ll do everything on your own
                  mobile phone, tablet, or laptop.
                  Field study
                  In field studies, Google researchers will visit you in your home or office.
                  They’ll never show up at your door unannounced though — they’ll always check in
                  with you first to discuss study details and make an appointment.
                  Surveys
                  For these studies, we’ll simply send you a survey form to fill out. Please note
                  that we don’t typically offer a gift for participating in a survey.
                  What’s the time commitment?
                  In usability studies and field studies, you’ll typically spend between sixty and
                  ninety minutes with a Google researcher. This will almost always be during
                  business hours (i.e., Monday to Friday, 9am to 6pm). If you’re visiting your
                  local Google office to participate, you’ll need to allow extra time for travel,
                  which will be at your own expense. Remote sessions may take place outside of
                  typical business hours depending on your local time zone.
                  How soon will you contact me?
                  We can't guarantee that we’ll invite you to participate in a study, and even if
                  we do it may not be right away. For example, we may not have a match for you now,
                  but we may contact you in nine months when we launch a new study that seems to be
                  a perfect fit.
                  If I sign up, will you send me spam or sell my information to other companies?
                  Not a chance. All the information you provide is kept confidential in accordance
                  with Google's privacy
                  policy. We only use it to help us find suitable participants for our research
                  studies. We — or an outside agency working on our behalf, in accordance with our
                  privacy policy — will only contact you if we want to invite you to participate in
                  a study or need to clarify the information you provided.
                  Why did the sign-up link send me to a Qualtrics website?
                  Qualtrics is a site we use to host our sign-up questionnaire and surveys.
                  My contact information has changed since I signed up. Can I update it?
                  Yes. Just complete our update form.
                  I signed up, but I’ve decided I don’t want to participate. How do I opt-out?
                  Just fill out our opt-out form.
                  I’m ready to sign up! Where do I start?
                  Right
                  here.
                Update information
                Opt out
                Terms
                Privacy
