	Film
TV
What To Watch
Music
Tech
International
Real Estate
Awards
Video
										Variety				
		HomeTVNews	
		November 8, 2017 9:28am PT	
				Amazon Greenlights Eric Kripke’s Superhero Drama ‘The Boys’			
			By			Danielle Turchiano		
		David Buchan/REX/Shutterstock	
Amazon has greenlight an original hour-long superhero drama, “The Boys,” from Eric Kripke.
“The Boys” is based on a comic book series from Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson and will depict a world in which superheroes embrace the “darkers side of their massive celebrity and fame.” The titular “Boys” are a group of vigilantes who set out to take down these corrupt superheroes without powers of their own but mere “blue collar grit and a willingness to fight dirty.”
“In a landscape saturated with superhero shows, ‘The Boys’ is the next evolution in this popular genre,” said Sharon Tal Yguado, Head of Scripted Series, Amazon Studios, in a statement. “With Eric, Evan, Seth and Original Film all behind this series, we are excited to adapt this popular comic, from the visionary minds of Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson, for television.”
The eight-episode series is created and written by Kripke, who also serves as showrunner and executive producer, and directed by Evan Goldberg and Seth Rogen, who also serve as executive producers.
			Popular on Variety		
Original Film’s Neal H. Moritz, Ori Marmur and Pavun Shetty, as well as Point Grey Pictures’ James Weaver also executive produce the project, which sees Sony Pictures Television Studios as co-producers. Ennis and Robertson are also slated to co-executive produce.
“We are very happy to have the unique opportunity to produce a second series based on the subversive and innovative world of Garth Ennis,” Chris Parnell, Co-President of Sony Pictures Television Studios, said in a statement. “And we are thankful to Sharon and her team at Amazon for their vision, partnership, and support.”
The series is scheduled to begin filming in the spring of 2018, to be released on Amazon Prime in 2019.
	Share This
		 © 2020 PMC. All rights reserved.	
