https://voxeu.org/events/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series-11
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
CEPR Household Finance Seminar Series - 11
27th November 2020, Online
The CEPR Network on Household Finance is launching a new online seminar series on Household Finance. The series is currently run by Cristian Badarinza (National University of Singapore) and Vimal Balasubramaniam (Queen Mary University of London). We meet once a fortnight on Friday (CET 15:00) on Zoom. This is structured like a regular seminar, with light-touch moderation and opportunities to ask questions during the presentation. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session.
Friday 27 November - Matteo Benetton (University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business), Giovanni Compiani (University of Chicago Booth School of Business) presenting on "Investors? Beliefs and Asset Prices: A Structural Model of Cryptocurrency Demand."
To receive information on how to join each seminar, please sign up to our CEPR Household Finance mailing list by clicking https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session. Follow us on twitter (@cepr_org) and visit our webpage https://cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series.
Organizer(s):
Contact Email: 

              Cristian Badarinza (National University of Singapore) and Vimal Balasubramaniam (Queen Mary University of London)
Event Type: 

              Workshop
Location: 

              Online
Attendance: 

              Yes
Institution:
More information: 

https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series
Disclaimer: Vox is not responsible for the accuracy of this information.
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
