https://voxeu.org/blogs-reviews
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Next Generation EU should not turn out to be a missed opportunity to initiate and fund genuine pan-European infrastructure projects with a high impact on potential growth. Roel Beetsma, Lorenzo Codogno and Paul van den Noord argue that the subsidiarity principle calls for such a pan-EU initiative.
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
Two-thirds of the discrepancy in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the US and China may reflect the advantage of the Chinese authoritarian regime in mobilising public collective action as well as the public minimisation of the health hazards by President Trump.
The joy of statistics
Diane Coyle reviews two books with the mission of imparting critical thinking about statistics to their readers.
Ode to muddling through
László Andor reviews a memoir by Olli Rehn, his former colleague at the Commission and a central figure in the response to the euro crisis of 2010-14.
Other Recent Blogs&Reviews:
Eduardo Levy Yeyati argues that a countercyclical liquidity fund could complete the financial architecture not only by providing much needed lending of last resort during systemic crises, but also as a way to attract less unstable private capital to emerging economies.
The U.S. Court of International Trade’s landmark decision voiding President Trump's tariffs on steel from Turkey opens the door to future challenges of US trade actions based on equal protection grounds
Thorsten Beck believes that while the compromise reached on the European recovery support will not be enough to overcome the COVID-19 challenges in the EU, it is an important first step.
Joshua Meltzer argues that the Trump administration has failed to provide a coherent vision for maintaining and expanding US competitiveness in the 21st century, including through its trade policy.
Roel Beetsma and George Kopits argue there is a strong legal and economic case for a timely application of the subsidiarity principle in establishing a permanent EU-wide countercyclical facility.
Pages
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
