https://voxeu.org/content/topics/education
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Education
COVID-19 school closures hit low-achieving students particularly hard
Elisabeth Grewenig, Philipp Lergetporer, Katharina Werner, Ludger Woessmann, Larissa Zierow, 15 November 2020
A key feature of school closures is that there is no trained educator in the room to help. This column argues that low-achieving students are particularly affected by the lack of teacher support. Based on a German time-use survey, it finds that students on average reduced daily learning time by about half during the school closures. This reduction was significantly larger for low-achieving students, who disproportionately replaced learning time with activities deemed detrimental to child development such as computer gaming rather than with more conducive activities such as reading.
The long-term effects of school closures
Nicola Fuchs-Schündeln, Dirk Krueger, Alexander Ludwig, Irina Popova, 12 November 2020
According to the World Bank, around 1.6 billion school children were affected by Covid-related school and childcare centre closures at their peak. This column uses a model that features public schooling as an input into the human capital production of children, as well as the monetary and time investment of parents into their children. The results suggest that school and childcare closures have significant negative long-term consequences on the human capital and welfare of the affected children, especially those from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds. The loss in schooling and associated human capital accumulation is harder to offset the longer the crisis lasts.
Earnings payoffs to different fields of study in secondary school
Gordon Dahl, Dan-Olof Rooth, Anders Stenberg, 10 November 2020
In many countries, secondary school students choose between academic fields without knowing what impact their choice will have on future earnings. This column argues that information on field-specific earnings premiums could not only help students to plan for their future, but could also help policymakers to allocate education resources. Taking advantage of the distinctive admissions system in Sweden’s secondary schools, the authors find that earnings payoffs for engineering, natural science, and business are generally positive, while the returns to social science and humanities are mostly negative.
The collateral damage to children’s education during lockdown
Per Engzell, Arun Frey, Mark Verhagen, 09 November 2020
School closures have been a common tool in the battle against COVID-19. Yet, their costs and benefits remain largely unknown. This column estimates the ‘learning loss’ that occurred when Dutch schools closed for eight weeks, using national exams that took place just before and after lockdown and similar data from previous years. On average, students lost out on a fifth of a year’s worth of learning. Losses were especially marked among those from disadvantaged homes.
Tiger mothers and standardised tests: The role of parental influence in cross-country gaps in human capital
Marta De Philippis,  Federico Rossi, 03 November 2020
There is an abundance of evidence to show that differences in educational attainment play a major role in defining cross-country variations in economic outcomes. This column shows that these cross-country gaps go beyond differences in school quality and parents' socioeconomic background, and that country-specific cultural values, transmitted through parental practices, play an important role. This should inform policies that attempt to replicate the successes of higher-performing countries.
Other Recent Articles:
Jesse Bruhn, Scott A. Imberman, Marcus A. Winters, 01 November 2020
Mark Colas, Sebastian Findeisen, Dominik  Sachs, 31 October 2020
Felipe Barrera-Osorio, Adriana Kugler, Mikko Silliman, 24 October 2020
David de la Croix, 23 October 2020
Patrick Chuard, Veronica Grassi, 12 October 2020
Ufuk Akcigit, Jeremy Pearce, Marta Prato, 10 October 2020
Graziella Bertocchi, Monica Bozzano, 05 October 2020
Debopam Bhattacharya, Renata Rabovic, 15 September 2020
Philipp Ager, Francesco Cinnirella, 11 September 2020
James  Heckman, Bei Liu, Mai Lu, Jin Zhou, 21 August 2020
Ban Ki-moon, Erik Berglöf, Gordon Brown, Helen Clark, Graça Machel, Mary  Robinson, 18 August 2020
Sofoklis Goulas, Rigissa  Megalokonomou, 17 August 2020
Esteban  Aucejo, Jacob  French, Paola Ugalde Araya, Basit Zafar, 09 August 2020
Ethan Ilzetzki, 05 August 2020
Eric Hanushek, Lavinia Kinne, Philipp Lergetporer, Ludger Woessmann, 02 August 2020
Chirantan  Chatterjee, Eric Hanushek, Shreekanth Mahendiran, 23 July 2020
Richard V. Burkhauser, Nicolas Hérault, Stephen P. Jenkins, Roger Wilkins, 21 July 2020
Qing Hu, Ross Levine, Chen Lin, Mingzhu  Tai, 18 July 2020
Simon Burgess, 16 June 2020
Andrew Oswald, Nattavudh Powdthavee, 06 June 2020
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
