https://voxeu.org/events/workshops
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Events
CEPR-VDEV Webinars - 6
24 - 24 November 2020 / Online /
CEPR-VDEV Webinars is an online seminar series, featuring invited speakers in the area of Development Economics. It was set up in the spring semester of 2020 as the VDEV webinar and will now continue joint with CEPR during autumn. It is organized jointly by CEPR, the University of Geneva (UniGe), the Barcelona Graduate School of Economics (Barcelona GSE), Paris School of Economics (PSE) and Stockholm School of Economics.
Organizers:
Martina Björkman Nyqvist (Stockholm School of Economics, Misum and CEPR)Giacomo De Giorgi (IEE/GSEM, University of Geneva and CEPR)Eliana La Ferrara (Boconni University and CEPR)Gianmarco León-Ciliotta (U. Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona GSE, IPEG and CEPR)Karen Macours (PSE, INRAE and CEPR)
24th Nov: Andrew Foster (Brown University) - Start What You Finish! Ex Ante Risk and Schooling Investments in the Presence of Dynamic Complementarities joint with Esther Gehrke
CEPR Household Finance Seminar Series - 11
27 - 27 November 2020 / Online /
The CEPR Network on Household Finance is launching a new online seminar series on Household Finance. The series is currently run by Cristian Badarinza (National University of Singapore) and Vimal Balasubramaniam (Queen Mary University of London). We meet once a fortnight on Friday (CET 15:00) on Zoom. This is structured like a regular seminar, with light-touch moderation and opportunities to ask questions during the presentation. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session.
Friday 27 November - Matteo Benetton (University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business), Giovanni Compiani (University of Chicago Booth School of Business) presenting on "Investors? Beliefs and Asset Prices: A Structural Model of Cryptocurrency Demand."
To receive information on how to join each seminar, please sign up to our CEPR Household Finance mailing list by clicking https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session. Follow us on twitter (@cepr_org) and visit our webpage https://cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series.
Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
30 November - 14 December 2020 / Online / CEPR, the Graduate Institute Geneva, GSEM, UNCTAD and the World Trade Organization.
Join us for the Fall 2020 series:
Online Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
Mondays, 10AM (ET), 3PM (GMT), 4PM (CET)
The GTDW is an established regular trade and development seminar series organized jointly by the Geneva School of Economics and Management of the University of Geneva (GSEM), the Graduate Institute in Geneva (IHEID), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO). After twelve years of running as an on-site seminar, the online edition of GTDW is co-organized with the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR). Visit GTDW's website for further information: www.gtdw.ch.
Organizers:
Julia Cajal-Grossi (IHEID)Monika Mrázová (GSEM and CEPR)Frédéric Robert-Nicoud (GSEM and CEPR)
Schedule:
Each meeting will take place on a Monday at 10.00 AM (ET) / 3.00 PM (GMT) / 4.00 PM (CET) and last for 1 hour and 15 minutes.
The line-up of speakers is as follows:
The seminar will consist of a 60 minute presentation, followed by 15 minutes of open discussion. During the presentation, the audience will be automatically muted and may submit questions using the Q&A facility. The hosts will collect a few questions of general interest and relay them to the speaker at intervals, ensuring the flow of the seminar. The last 15 minutes of the event will be reserved for an open discussion, where participants may raise their hand to ask questions live, directly to the speaker.
The events will be live-streamed on YouTube and will be available in real time on GTDW's webpage (www.gtdw.ch). Video recordings of past seminars will be held in a repository on www.gtdw.ch. Please note that you may be recorded if you ask a question live during the Q&A.
Abuse of the seminar will not be tolerated.
Register online
CEPR Advanced Forum in Financial Economics
8 December 2020 - 8 June 2021 / Online seminar / CEPR
Monthly online seminars on Tuesdays, starting in September 2020,
8 AM New York, 1 PM London, 2 PM Milan/Paris/Frankfurt, 8 PM Singapore/Shanghai
We are delighted to announce that the CEPR Network on Financial Economics is launching a virtual seminar series at the start of the academic year.
The CEPR Advanced Forum for Financial Economics (CAFFE) will be organized by Laurent Calvet, Kim Peijnenburg, and Raman Uppal from EDHEC Business School. Its objective is to make cutting-edge finance research available to researchers based in Europe and around the world.
There will be one seminar each month covering all topics in Financial Economics. The seminar is open to all participants but special emphasis will be placed on European-based researchers working on novel issues such as the financial implications of Covid-19.  We view this seminar series as a joint venture of all researchers in Financial Economics and we very much look forward to your wholehearted and enthusiastic support.
Each seminar will run for 75 minutes, with 40 minutes allocated to the speaker, 20 minutes to a discussant, and 15 minutes for questions from the audience. The seminar starts just after lunch at 2PM CET (1PM London time), so have your caffè during CAFFE!
The confirmed speakers for the CAFFE seminar series are:
8 September 2020: Pierre Collin-Dufresne (EPFL and CEPR)
13 October 2020: Victoria Vanasco (CREI and CEPR)
10 November 2020: Lorenzo Bretscher (London Business School)
8 December 2020: Ester Faia (Goethe University Frankfurt and CEPR)
12 January 2021: Nicola Gennaioli (Bocconi University and CEPR)
9 February 2021: Marieke Bos (Stockholm School of Economics)
9 March 2021: Savitar Sundaresan (imperial College and CEPR)
6 April 2021: Irina Zviadadze (Stockholm School of Economics and CEPR)
11 May 2021: Vikrant Vig (London Business School)
8 June 2021: Mariassunta Giannetti (Stockholm School of Economics and CEPR)
7th Empirical Management Conference – Virtual Edition
9 - 10 December 2020 / Online / Cornell University
We will be running a two-day conference on empirical management, focused on recent
empirical research on measuring and exploring management and organizational
practices. We are seeking applied and empirical research papers in both the private andthe public sector. This format follows Empirical Management Conferences at Harvard in 2014, at Stanford in 2015, at MIT in 2016, at the World Bank in 2017, and at Harvard in 2018, and the World Bank in 2019.
The 2020 conference will be hosted virtually by Cornell Dyson, on December 9-10, 2020 (11:00am – 2:00pm EST).
Submissions are due by October 15, 2020 at 11:59 p.m. EST.
Accepted papers will be notified by November 15, 2020.
Papers will be submitted via the WMS website portal at:
https://worldmanagementsurvey.org/emc-2020-submission/
If you are interested in attending, please register here:
https://worldmanagementsurvey.org/emc-2020-registration/
We will also be facilitating a “matched coffee time” between PhD students, junior and senior faculty. Please register your interest in being matched and your status when registering.
Questions? Please e-mail Thomaz Teodorovicz at [email protected] or visit our website at www.worldmanagementsurvey.org
Scientific committee:
Nick Bloom (Stanford University)
Renata Lemos (World Bank)
Raffaella Sadun (Harvard Business School)
Daniela Scur (Cornell University)
John Van Reenen (LSE and MIT)
Young Scholars Conference 2020
10 - 11 December 2020 / Online /
Young Scholars Conference 2020 - Call for Papers
The Private Enterprise Development in Low-Income Countries (PEDL) programme pursues a research agenda that aims to better understand what determines the strength of market forces driving efficiency in low-income countries (LICs).
The PEDL programme will be hosting a two-day virtual conference focused on PhD candidates and young scholars. Presenters should be no more than three years out of their PhD. The conference is open to any paper on firms in lower-income countries, though we particularly encourage submissions from PEDL-funded projects.
To submit your application, please upload your completed paper to the CEPR Portal here by October 30, 2020 23:59 GMT.
On the Portal, you will need to create an account here to submit an application. Once logged in, you can find the PEDL Conference 2020 page here. To upload your completed paper, check the box where it asks “Would you like to submit a paper?” and a new option will appear to upload your document.
We aim to inform accepted applicants by mid-November 2020. Any queries about the event or application process can be sent to [email protected].
The Young Scholars Conference will overlap with the PEDL Young Scholars Matchmaking Workshop 2020. An application to present at the Conference does not preclude an application to the Young Scholars Workshop 2020 or vice versa.
Morgan Hardy, NYU Abu Dhabi
Christian Meyer, University of Oxford
Chris Woodruff, University of Oxford, PEDL and CEPR
CEPR Household Finance Seminar Series - 12
11 - 11 December 2020 / Online /
The CEPR Network on Household Finance is launching a new online seminar series on Household Finance. The series is currently run by Cristian Badarinza (National University of Singapore) and Vimal Balasubramaniam (Queen Mary University of London). We meet once a fortnight on Friday (CET 15:00) on Zoom. This is structured like a regular seminar, with light-touch moderation and opportunities to ask questions during the presentation. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session.
Friday 11 December - Michaela Pagel (Columbia University and CEPR), Scott R. Baker (Northwestern University), R. Farrokhnia (Columbia University), Steffen Meyer (University of Southern Denmark, Danish Finance Institute) and Constantine Yannelis (University of Chicago, Booth School of Business) presenting on "Income, Liquidity, and the Consumption Response to the 2020 Economic Stimulus Payments."
To receive information on how to join each seminar, please sign up to our CEPR Household Finance mailing list by clicking https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session. Follow us on twitter (@cepr_org) and visit our webpage https://cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series.
Bank of Italy/CEPR/EIEF Conference on  “Ownership, Governance, Management & Firm Performance” 21-22 December 2020
21 - 22 December 2020 / Online / Bank of Italy, the Einaudi Institute for Economics and Finance, and the Centre for Economic Policy and Research
The Bank of Italy, the Einaudi Institute for Economics and Finance, and the Centre for Economic Policy and Research are pleased to invite you to attend a research conference on “Ownership, Governance, Management & Firm Performance”. The meeting aims at bringing together lead economists to discuss the role of managers and owners in shaping firm performance, with a particular emphasis on micro-macro linkages (from firm behaviour to aggregate productivity growth) and policy implications.
Keynote speakers: Renée Adams (Oxford – Said Business School) and Raffaella Sadun (Harvard Business School and CEPR)
The conference will take place online and the full programme is available here. To register for the online sessions, please click here to register for sessions on 21 December and here to register for the sessions on 22 December.   Organising committee: Audinga Baltrunaite (Bank of Italy), Sara Formai (Bank of Italy), Francesca Lotti (Bank of Italy), Sauro Mocetti (Bank of Italy) and Fabiano Schivardi (Luiss University, EIEF and CEPR)
STEG Annual Conference 2021
13 - 15 January 2021 / Online /

The research programme on Structural Transformation and Economic Growth (STEG), led by the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR), will hold its first annual conference on 13-15 January 2021. This conference will fall near the close of STEG’s first (inception) year. The conference papers will help define the current research frontiers in the area of structural transformation and economic growth. STEG seeks to advance these frontiers over the next four years, through a programme of competitive research funding and academic community building. We expect the first funding calls to be issued in Spring 2021.
The conference will be hosted online via Zoom. We now invite submissions for this conference from interested researchers on any topic relevant to STEG’s major themes:
This list of themes is not intended to be exhaustive; other topics of potential interest include infrastructure, informality, and the implications of different macro policy frameworks for structural change and growth. We particularly welcome papers that address these themes in conjunction with our two cross-cutting themes, which are gender and climate change. STEG’s objective is to build a body of research and evidence that will inform policy in low-income countries; we consequently seek papers that have clear relevance to this goal. In addition to full-length presentations, the conference will include one or more (virtual) sessions of short presentations, as a way to highlight the diversity of research in the field and to offer more opportunities for early-career researchers and scholars representing a wide range of institutions and geographies. The deadline for submission is Wednesday 2nd December 2020. We will accept only completed papers. To submit a paper, please go to: https://portal.cepr.org/steg-annual-conference-2021. If you have any difficulties registering for this conference, please contact Mandy Chan, Senior Events Officer at [email protected].
PEIO seminar
18 January - 22 March 2021 / online / Political Economy of International Organization
We invite submissions from junior faculty and PhD students for the Political Economy of International Organization seminar series. The seminar will bring together economists and political scientists to address political economy issues related to international organizations such as the World Trade Organization, United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, European Union, and others. We also consider submissions on topics more broadly related to international organization, such as foreign aid, international agreements, and international law. Submission of Papers
The seminar series is open to all who are interested and will feature papers selected based on their quality and fit. Both empirical and theoretical papers will be considered. Presenters should be junior faculty or PhD students, but we do not discount senior co-authors. Please submit full papers via our online submission form at https://www.peio.me/peio-seminar/. The deadline for submission is December 15, 2020. Format
The format will be PEIO-style: short paper presentations (10 minutes), two discussion openers (2-3 minutes each), and 20 minutes for general discussion (where we expect participants to read papers before the session). The seminar series will run for 10 weeks, with two presentations each session. Participants will have the chance to talk to presenters before and after the sessions.
Adam Smith Workshop Spring 2021
21 - 23 January 2021 / Online /
You are invited to submit papers for the Adam Smith Workshop for Spring 2021. Given the current situation regarding the pandemic, the workshop will be held online and will be hosted by CEPR over Zoom.
The workshop will take place over three days on Wednesday 21, Thursday 22, and Friday 23, April 2021.  Each day will have sessions spread over four hours, starting at around 08:00 (New York), 13:00 (London), 14:00 (Milan/Paris/Frankfurt), and 20:00 (Singapore/Shanghai).
The workshop will consider papers in all areas of finance, including Asset Pricing, Behavioral Finance, Corporate Finance, Financial Intermediation, Household Finance, and International Finance.
As in previous years, papers will be presented in two parallel streams, one labeled Asset Pricing (AP) and the other Corporate Finance (CF).  There will also be one joint session with papers that are of interest to researchers in both Asset Pricing and Corporate Finance.
Submission deadline and procedure: The submission deadline is
Friday 20 November 2020 (midnight GMT). Your paper should be submitted at:  https://portal.cepr.org/adam-smith-workshop-spring-2021. There is no submission fee this year.
When submitting your PDF, please include author information on the cover page.
Depending on whether you wish your paper to be considered for the Asset Pricing or Corporate Finance stream, please name the PDF file as:
AP_LASTNAME_Firstname_Title.pdf   CF_LASTNAME_Firstname_Title.pdf
Program Committees: Asset Pricing: Co-chairs: Hugues Langlois (HEC Paris), Irina Zviadadze (HEC Paris and CEPR), Tarun Ramadorai (Imperial College and CEPR), and Raman Uppal (EDHEC and CEPR). Members: Pedro Bordalo (Oxford University), Harjoat Bhamra (Imperial College and CEPR), Laurent Calvet (EDHEC and CEPR), Thierry Foucault (HEC and CEPR), Christian Julliard (LSE), Marcin Kacperczyk (Imperial College and CEPR), Howard Kung (LBS and CEPR), Dong Lou (LSE and CEPR), Albert Menkveld (Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and CEPR), Anna Pavlova (LBS and CEPR), Kim Peijnenburg (EDHEC and CEPR), Mungo Wilson (Oxford University), Kathy Yuan (LSE and CEPR).
Corporate Finance: Co-chairs: Johan Hombert (HEC Paris and CEPR) and Vikrant Vig (LBS and CEPR)Members: Renee Adams (Oxford University), Claudia Custodio (Imperial College and CEPR), Nicola Gennaioli (Bocconi and CEPR), Mariassunta Giannetti (SSE and CEPR), Denis Gromb (HEC Paris and CEPR), Dirk Jenter (LSE and CEPR), Augustin Landier (HEC Paris), Steven Ongena (University of Zurich, SFI and CEPR), Jorg Rocholl (ESMT and CEPR), David Thesmar (MIT and CEPR), Paolo Volpin (Cass and CEPR).
Details regarding the conference are also available online at:
https://www.adamsmithworkshop.com
CEPR Conference The Politics of Regulation and Central Banking
12 - 12 February 2021 / Rotterdam/Online / Erasmus University Rotterdam, Tilburg University and the University of Amsterdam
This is the first edition of an annual conference series on the Political Economy of Finance. Three leading Dutch universities – Erasmus University Rotterdam, Tilburg University, and the University of Amsterdam – will host the annual event in order to build a European platform for researchers in this highly topical area, usually treated separately in economics and finance. For its first edition, the conference will be dedicated to exploring the intersections between political economy and central banking.
The academic program will consist of six papers and each paper will be allocated two discussants. The first edition of this conference series will also feature a keynote lecture by Francesco Trebbi (Berkeley Haas and CEPR).
The organising committee invites submissions of theoretical and empirical papers on the following topics (the list is non-exhaustive):
• Political institutions and power and the design of banking and monetary unions
• Private interests in banking regulation, supervision, and resolution
• Political independence and the conduct of monetary and financial policies
• Central bank’s mandate in a constitutional democracy
• Political economy considerations of central banks’ economic stimulus programs after a pandemic
• Politics of bailouts, bail-ins, and state aid control in a (partial) banking union
• Political pressures and regulatory capture in a dual national-supranational supervisory architecture
• The economic and political consequences of central bank capture
• Lobbyists, technocrats, and central bankers
• Political economy aspects of a central bank digital currency
Organising committee:
• Thomas Lambert (Erasmus University Rotterdam)
• Enrico Perotti (University of Amsterdam and CEPR)
• Magdalena Rola-Janicka (Tilburg University)
Programme committee:
• Dana Foarta (Stanford GSB)
• Hans Gersbach (ETH Zurich and CEPR)
• Deniz Igan (International Monetary Fund)
• Frederic Malherbe (University College London and CEPR)
• Kris James Mitchener (Santa Clara University and CEPR)
• Enrico Perotti (University of Amsterdam and CEPR)
• Alessandro Riboni (Ecole Polytechnique and CEPR)
• Martin Schmalz (University of Oxford and CEPR)
• Vikrant Vig (London Business School and CEPR)
• Paolo Volpin (City University London and CEPR)
Submission procedure:
To submit a paper please visit the https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-conference-politics-regulation-and-central-.... The deadline for submission is 6pm (GMT), Sunday 15 November 2020.
If you have any difficulties registering for this meeting, please contact Mandy Chan at [email protected] for assistance (with subject header “CEPR Conference The Politics of Regulation and Central Banking”). There is no submission fee. The authors will be notified about the acceptance of papers by Friday 18 December 2020.
Further information:
The conference will be held at the Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University, in a blended format allowing for both physical and online participation. The conference is scheduled on Friday 12 February 2021 between 9:00 and 18.00 and followed by a dinner with all physical participants. Depending on sanitary constraints at the time of the meeting, the conference may be held entirely online.
There is no conference fee and there are no accommodation costs for the invited presenters, discussants and chairs, but all participants must cover their own travel costs. Accommodation costs and meals during the conference will be sponsored by the Dutch Research Council (NWO) and Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM).
Information regarding the conference can be sought on the conference website https://www.rsm.nl/research/departments/finance/research/conferences/pol... and in case of questions please contact the organising committee at [email protected].
CEPR Household Finance Seminar Series - 16
26 - 26 February 2021 / Online /
The CEPR Network on Household Finance is launching a new online seminar series on Household Finance. The series is currently run by Cristian Badarinza (National University of Singapore) and Vimal Balasubramaniam (Queen Mary University of London). We meet once a fortnight on Friday (CET 15:00) on Zoom. This is structured like a regular seminar, with light-touch moderation and opportunities to ask questions during the presentation. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session.
Friday 26 February - Paolina Medina (Mays Business School of Texas A&M University) and Michaela Pagel (Columbia University and CEPR) presenting on "Does Saving Cause Borrowing?."
To receive information on how to join each seminar, please sign up to our CEPR Household Finance mailing list by clicking https://portal.cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series. The Zoom link to each seminar will be made available on email, one hour before the session. Follow us on twitter (@cepr_org) and visit our webpage https://cepr.org/cepr-household-finance-seminar-series.
CEPR Sixth European Workshop on Household Finance
14 - 16 April 2021 / Nice, France/Online / The CEPR Network on Household Finance, EDHEC and Think Forward Initiative (TFI).
The CEPR Network on Household Finance and EDHEC are organising the Sixth European Workshop on Household Finance on 14-16 April 2021 with the support of the Think Forward Initiative (TFI). The objective of this workshop is to host presentations and foster interaction between Senior and Junior Researchers working in the area of household finance. The workshop will include state-of-the-art research on household financial behaviour and on how this is influenced by other choices, government policies, and the overall economic environment. The research workshop will include a CEPR-TFI event on “Finance and Inequality”, organised by Laurent Calvet (EDHEC and CEPR) on Wednesday 14 April 2021.
We solicit papers in the following areas, but other related areas may also be considered: • Patterns of asset allocation and debt behaviour over the life cycle• Financing retirement and the demographic transition• Consumer indebtedness, financial distress and default decisions• Behavioural approaches to household finances• Financial literacy and financial education programmes• Trust, subjective expectations, pessimism, and financial decisions• International comparisons of household finances using micro-data• Cognitive and genetic studies on individual financial performance• Financial advice and legal protection of investors and borrowers• The impact of technology on household financial behaviour The organisers encourage submissions from PhD students in household finance. Students must apply online stating that they are a PhD student and supply their CV. Students should note that, from 2020 on, the best student paper prize will only be awarded once a year at the Household Finance Conference which takes place every Autumn. So, students who want their paper to be considered for the prize should submit it to the Autumn conference, but they are welcome to submit another paper to the Spring workshop. Programme CommitteeSteffen Andersen (Copenhagen Business School and CEPR), Laurent Calvet (EDHEC Business School, CFS and CEPR), Joao Cocco (London Business School and CEPR), Francisco Gomes (London Business School and CEPR), Luigi Guiso (EIEF and CEPR), Michael Haliassos (Goethe University Frankfurt and CEPR), Tullio Jappelli (University of Naples Federico II, CSEF and CEPR), Matti Keloharju (Aalto University and CEPR), Alex Michaelides (Imperial College and CEPR), Giovanna Nicodano (Collegio Carlo Alberto, University of Torino), Monica Paiella (University of Naples Parthenope and CEPR), Wenlan Qian (National University of Singapore), Tarun Ramadorai (Imperial College and CEPR), Paolo Sodini (Stockholm School of Economics, SHoF, and CEPR), and Raman Uppal (EDHEC and CEPR).
Local OrganisersLaurent Calvet (EDHEC and CEPR), Kim Peijnenburg (EDHEC and CEPR) and Raman Uppal (EDHEC and CEPR). Workshop VenueWe hope the workshop can take place physically on the premises of EDHEC. However, due to the uncertainty of the COVID-19 situation and travel restrictions, the workshop may become a hybrid workshop or a completely virtual workshop depending on the situation closer to the time of the workshop. Paper Submission and Deadline The submission fee for each paper is 50 euro and proceeds will contribute to covering workshop costs. The submission fee is waived for PhD students only. Full instructions on the submission process can be found on this link.
The deadline for submissions is 18:00 (GMT), Wednesday 6 January 2021. Expenses of paper presenters and discussants will be covered, unless they indicate that they are able to cover their own expenses. Limited support funds for PhD students will also be available. Applications for attendance without a paper presentation will be possible once the programme is finalised, and available places will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis.
Political Economy of Conflict and Redistribution (PolEcCon) Summer School 2021
2 - 8 August 2021 / Harnack House, Berlin / Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance
The Political Economy of Conflict and Redistribution (PolEcCon) Summer School 2021 is aimed at young researchers in the early stage of their careers as PhD students and Postdocs, notably in the fields of Economics and Political Science. The School provides research-oriented lectures by senior experts in the field of the Political Economy of Conflict and Redistribution.
Methodologically it will cover theory and experiments in the field and in the laboratory. In addition to these lectures, participants will have the opportunity to present and discuss their own research to the whole group. There will also be a panel discussion by the Summer School lecturers. Opportunities will also be available for work and discussion in informal groups that might lead to collaborative research efforts among the participants.
The working language of the Summer School is English.
Scientific Organisers:
Lecturers:
Local organiser: Sandra Sundt-Johannesen, MPI for Tax Law and Public Finance
Location: The PolEcCon Summer School 2021 will take place at the historical Harnack House of the Max Planck Society in Berlin, Germany.
Dates: The Summer School runs from 2-8 August 2020. Participants are expected to stay for the full duration of the meeting.
Funding and Fees: The 2021 event is generously supported by the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance. There is no participation fee for the Summer School. However, participants have to cover their own cost of travel and accommodation. Room capacity is reserved at the event location, but independent booking is also feasible. More information will be provided to the participants who are admitted.
Application: Your application file should include:
To submit your application for the PolEcCon Summer School please go to https://events.tax.mpg.de/event/1/. Submissions are open from 1 December 2020 until 31 March 2021.
Tentative Timeline: Applicants will be notified about the admission decision by 20 April 2021. Admitted students will be asked to inform the organisers whether they would like to present a paper or a research draft. We plan to announce the program for the Summer School in early June 2021 and will also update the conference homepage continuously.
Questions: If you have questions regarding admissions or any other academic matters, please contact [email protected] with “PolEcCon2021” in the subject line. If you have questions about lodging, travel arrangement or other logistic matters, please contact [email protected] with “PolEcCon2021” in the subject line.
CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19): The health and safety of our participants are our first priority. We are closely monitoring any specific travel advisories through official channels. Before planning your travel and your actual travel to Berlin, we recommend that you stay informed of any information your local health agencies may make available and take reasonable precautions to protect yourself. We will continue to monitor all developments related to COVID-19 and following advice provided by the World Health Organization and the German Government. A possible postponement of the summer school will be announced in time to allow participants to make appropriate arrangements. But we also recommend that you make your travel arrangements in a way that allows you to react to possible changes caused by the health situation. We look forward to welcoming you to the event.
Sustainable Development Conference, ICSD 2021
8 - 9 September 2021 / Roma Eventi, Congress Center, Pontificia Università Gregoriana Rome, Italy / European Center of Sustainable Development , CIT University
European Center of Sustainable Development in collaboration with Canadian Institute of Technology will organize the 9th ICSD 2021 International Conference on Sustainable Development, with particular focus on Environmental, Economic and Socio-Cultural Sustainability.
The Conference theme : "Creating a unified foundation for the Sustainable Development: research, practice and education".
Papers will be published in Open Access EJSD Journal (Web of Science) and Proceedings.
For further information, please see the call for papers at https://ecsdev.org/publications
The 9th ICSD 2021 will be an excellent opportunity to share your ideas and research findings relevant to the Sustainability Science, through the European network of academics.
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
