https://voxeu.org/taxonomy/term/10874
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Resilience and fragility in global banking: Impacts on emerging economies
Marina Conesa Martínez, Giulia  Lotti, Andrew Powell, 20 November 2020
Global banks are highly connected, and banking systems are only as strong as the weakest links in the network. This column analyses cross-border syndicated lending to emerging and developing countries from 1993 to 2020 and finds evidence of both resilience and fragility in the global financial system. Contagion through co-lenders affected bank lending more strongly before and during the 2008-09 financial crisis but significantly less in a period after the crisis, consistent with the idea that the reduction in network density as a result of the crisis may have increased resilience to ‘normal shocks’. But Covid-19 is clearly no normal shock, and its impacts are likely spreading through the network, affecting the supply of loans to emerging economies.
Loneliness, happiness, and love in times of Covid-19
Daniel Hamermesh, 19 November 2020
The Covid-19 pandemic has changed not only how people spend time, but with whom they spend it. Partnered people may be spending more time with a spouse or cohabitor while singles spend more time alone. This column investigates how these changes in time allocation might affect individual feelings of wellbeing. Time diaries from the US and the UK suggest that married couples compelled to spend more time together may experience increased happiness, while the crisis could take an emotional toll on unmarried individuals forced to spend more time alone.
Macroprudential ring-fencing
Tomáš Konečný, Lukáš Pfeifer, 19 November 2020
The financial sector has an essential role to play in addressing the economic fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic. This column discusses the link between financial stability and restrictions on the mobility of capital along national borders of cross-border banking groups in the context of macroprudential capital buffers. It argues that apart from the direct absorption of systemic shocks, such macroprudential policies also enhance the performance of existing risk-sharing mechanisms, in particular in the case of synchronous shocks in the EU. The ESRB recommendation for restrictions of distributions during the pandemic contributes to the stabilising role of macroprudential capital buffers in the EU.
Bonds Issuance in the Crisis: Crowding out bank loans
Olivier  Darmouni, 17 November 2020
Conventional wisdom has it that banks play a special role in providing liquidity in bad times, while capital markets are used to fund investment in good times. Olivier Darmouni  tells Tim Phillips how, using micro-data on corporate balance sheets following the COVID-19 shock, he finds evidence that instead, the corporate bond market is central to firms' access to liquidity, crowding out bank loans even when the banking sector is healthy.  This liquidity-driven bond issuance questions the comparative advantage of banks in liquidity provision, and suggests that the V-shaped recovery of bond markets, propelled by the Federal Reserve, is unlikely to lead to a V-shaped recovery in real activity.Read the underlying paper, Crowding Out Bank Loans: Liquidity Driven Bond Issuance by Olivier Darmouni and Kerry Y. Siani, which, which appeared in issue 51 of CEPR's Covid Economics series, here.
Cross-border fallout from pandemic policy overdrive
Simon Evenett, Johannes Fritz, 17 November 2020
The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic meant governments faced their second systemic economic crisis in under 15 years. This column introduces the latest Global Trade Alert report, which documents the extensive cross-border spillovers created by government policy intervention during the first ten months of the year, much of it in response to the pandemic. The evidence challenges five common claims made by officials during crises and questions the current approach to crisis management found in WTO accords.
How to protect jobs during Covid-19: Lessons from Greece
Gordon  Betcherman, Mauro  Testaverde, 18 November 2020
The Covid-19 crisis has profoundly affected employment everywhere, but countries have adopted different strategies to try to mitigate the worst of the effects. This column compares the Greek experience to the rest of Europe, as well as to North America. The authors conclude that given the nature of the pandemic, models for managing labour market shocks will need to offer extended support where the shock persists or reoccurs. Crucially, successful policy approaches will need to be well suited for enabling job creation once conditions are in place for a restart.
A proposal for an auction-based sovereign debt restructuring mechanism
Tim Willems, 17 November 2020
The COVID-induced surge in public debt has raised concerns about its sustainability, further increasing the need to improve the debt-restructuring process. This column proposes an auction-based strategy to restructure sovereign debt that tailors the shape of the restructured debt stock optimally to creditor preferences, subject to debt being sustainable post-restructuring. Any debt relief provided to the country gets optimally distributed over its creditors, thus minimising the pain inflicted upon them. A version of the winner’s curse can reduce the ‘holdout problem’ of creditors trying to free-ride on each other’s contributions towards debt relief. All this should smoothen the restructuring process and enable the debtor to mobilise greater creditor support (given the amount of relief provided).
Vaccine challenges
Cevat Giray Aksoy, Barry Eichengreen, Orkun Saka, 16 November 2020
Last week brought welcome news about the apparent effectiveness of a potential Covid-19 vaccine. While the challenges of manufacturing and distributing the vaccine lie ahead, this column argues that the most difficult challenge may actually be getting people to take it. A September survey of more than 10,000 Americans showed that only a slim majority of adult respondents would definitely or probably get a vaccine to prevent Covid-19, were it available today. A 2018 study shows that vaccine scepticism is even greater in a number of other countries. Hope lies in the possibility of a more consistent and effective public policy response, in which governments’ non-pharmaceutical interventions produce positive results, in turn fostering confidence in the safety and efficacy of any vaccine they endorse and distribute.
Protecting lives and livelihoods with early and tight lockdowns
Francesca  Caselli, Francesco Grigoli, Weicheng Lian, Damiano Sandri, 16 November 2020
Non-pharmaceutical interventions remain key to slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. This column examines the impact of lockdowns on mobility in a large number of countries during the first seven months of the pandemic. Both lockdowns and voluntary social distancing helped contain the first wave of COVID-19. In particular, stringent and rapidly adopted lockdowns significantly slowed the spread of the virus. Despite their short-term economic costs, early and tight lockdowns may pave the way to a faster recovery.
School holidays accounted for up to half of the rise in Covid-19 infections in Germany over the summer
Thomas Plümper, Eric Neumayer, 16 November 2020
What role did the summer holiday season play in increasing Covid-19 infections in Germany? Exploiting the staggered nature of school holidays in Germany, this column estimates the effect of school holidays on growth in infections across the country Germany. It finds that the estimated effect equates to 48.7% of the average growth rate across German districts during their respective final week of holidays. While this is similar to previous aggregate findings, the findings also reveal how the effect differs across the 16 federal states and is conditioned by how rich a district is and by the share of foreigners amongst its resident population.
Localising value chains after COVID would add to the economic losses and make domestic economies more vulnerable
Christine Arriola, Przemyslaw Kowalski, Frank van Tongeren, 15 November 2020
The Covid-19 pandemic has left in its wake a global economy damaged beyond what was thought possible a decade ago. The globalised nature of the 21st century global economy is a key component in terms of the dynamics, and effects, of the virus. This column presents an analysis of the importance of global value chains, both during the pandemic and throughout the recovery process. The results of the study suggest that increased localisation could do more harm than good, and that the international network of interconnected supply chains remains key to producing essential goods and services.
Emerging markets sovereign spreads and country-specific fundamentals during COVID-19
Timo B. Daehler, Joshua Aizenman, Yothin Jinjarak, 15 November 2020
Covid-19 was predicted to hit emerging markets particularly hard, as many containment measures were deemed less effective in an emerging market context. This column examines emerging market sovereign credit default swaps spreads during the pandemic and assesses the relative importance of global factors, sovereign fundamentals, COVID-19 mortality, and policy responses. The analysis suggests that while emerging market sovereign CDS spreads can be explained by regional and global risk factor before COVID-19, they were driven by fiscal space, commodity revenues and mobility dynamics during the pandemic, but not directly through variation in country-specific COVID-19 mortality rates.
COVID-19 school closures hit low-achieving students particularly hard
Elisabeth Grewenig, Philipp Lergetporer, Katharina Werner, Ludger Woessmann, Larissa Zierow, 15 November 2020
A key feature of school closures is that there is no trained educator in the room to help. This column argues that low-achieving students are particularly affected by the lack of teacher support. Based on a German time-use survey, it finds that students on average reduced daily learning time by about half during the school closures. This reduction was significantly larger for low-achieving students, who disproportionately replaced learning time with activities deemed detrimental to child development such as computer gaming rather than with more conducive activities such as reading.
How people respond to rare events
Martin Eichenbaum, Miguel Godinho de Matos, Francisco Lima, Sérgio Rebelo, Mathias Trabandt, 14 November 2020
A central question in economics is how people respond to risk – specifically, how they respond to low-probability events. This column uses the COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment to answer this question. Studying the consumption behaviour of Portuguese public sector workers, whose income was likely unaffected by the crisis, they find that older workers reduced their consumption of high-contact goods by much more than younger workers.  As the likelihood for dying from COVID-19 is increasing in age, these results suggest that workers’ responses are commensurate with the risk they face.
Job displacement, unemployment benefits, and domestic violence
Sonia Bhalotra, 13 November 2020
There has been a global surge in domestic violence since the onset of Covid-19. This column provides insights into what may be driving this rise, drawing on evidence from Brazil. Job loss leads to increases in domestic violence, irrespective of whether it is the perpetrator or victim whose job is lost. Both income stress and an increase in time spent together seem to contribute to this. Unemployment benefits have mitigation potential if they can be supplemented by policies designed to encourage a return to work.
Civil liberties during the COVID-19 pandemic
Marcella Alsan, Luca Braghieri, Sarah Eichmeyer, Minjeong Joyce Kim, Stefanie Stantcheva, David Yang, 13 November 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic offers an example of how two core government functions – the protection of civil liberties and the provision of public goods – can come into conflict. This column reports on a large-scale representative survey administered to more than 400,000 people in 15 countries which shows that a large fraction of people around the world are willing to sacrifice their own rights and freedoms in order to improve public health conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic. Citizens’ support, however, is likely to be heterogeneous and depends on their own exposure to COVID-19 health risk, as well as on how much they fear the erosion of their civil liberties.
The long-term effects of school closures
Nicola Fuchs-Schündeln, Dirk Krueger, Alexander Ludwig, Irina Popova, 12 November 2020
According to the World Bank, around 1.6 billion school children were affected by Covid-related school and childcare centre closures at their peak. This column uses a model that features public schooling as an input into the human capital production of children, as well as the monetary and time investment of parents into their children. The results suggest that school and childcare closures have significant negative long-term consequences on the human capital and welfare of the affected children, especially those from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds. The loss in schooling and associated human capital accumulation is harder to offset the longer the crisis lasts.
Recovery capacity: Readiness for a new economic landscape
Margareta Drzeniek, Sheana Tambourgi, Ilaria Marchese, 12 November 2020
COVID-19 is accelerating structural transformations, notably towards more digitalised and more automated economies. This column presents a COVID-19 economic recovery index which considers the extent to which a country is exposed to major health effects from COVID-19, the degree to which a country’s economy will be affected by the crisis, and a country’s capacity to recover and rebuild to pre-COVID-19 levels. To guide their economies out of this crisis and to ready them for the coming transformation, governments need to restore trade flows, manage the risks of slowing global economic convergence, and actively prepare for accelerating economic transformation.
Dealing with the second wave: Subsidise, instead of ordering closures
Daniel Gros, 12 November 2020
In the autumn of 2020, many European governments are imposing ‘lockdowns light’, which usually contain limitations on the operations of restaurants, bars, and some shops considered non-essential.  This column argues that pandemic control cannot be limited to lockdowns. Activities like providing restaurant meals or retailing increase the risk of infection and thus involve a large difference between private and social cost.  The efficient solution to this problem would be incentives for shop and restaurant closures, rather than mandated lockdowns.
Economic expected losses and downside risks due to the Spanish flu
Roberto De Santis, Wouter Van der Veken, 11 November 2020
Understanding the economic impacts of a global pandemic is a key challenge for the economics profession. This column analyses the 1918-1920 Spanish flu to gain insights about the expected output losses and downside risks from such an event. It estimates an average output drop of 7% across the globe over the years 1918-1920, increased macroeconomic risks, and an increase in income inequality across countries. The expected real income loss is nearly twice as large for lower-income countries. As for the US, the estimated output fall due to the Spanish flu is small, but the macroeconomic risks are not negligible.
Pages
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
