https://voxeu.org/epubs/cepr-dps/homeownership-immigrants-france-selection-effects-related-international-migration-flows
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Homeownership of immigrants in France: selection effects related to international migration flows
Laurent  Gobillon, Matthieu Solignac,
            Sun, 12/06/2015
We investigate the difference in homeownership rates between natives and first-generation immigrants in France, and how this difference evolves over the 1975-1999 period, by using a large longitudinal dataset. We find that the homeownership gap is large and has increased. Entries into the territory have a large negative effect on the evolution of homeownership rates for immigrants. Although entrants have on average better education than people staying in the territory for the entire period (i.e. stayers), they are younger and thus at an earlier stage in the wealth accumulation process. They are also located in large cities, where the homeownership rate is lower, and the returns to their characteristics are lower than those for stayers.
a
A
Vox readers can download CEPR Discussion Paper 10975 for free here.
Journalists are entitled to free DP downloads on request; please contact [email protected]. To learn more about subscribing to CEPR's Discussion Paper Series, please visit the CEPR website.
URL: 

www.cepr.org/active/publications/discussion_papers/dp.php?dpno=10975
Topics: 

Migration
Tags: 

homeownership, immigrants, longitudinal data
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
