https://voxeu.org/epubs/cepr-dps/demographics-and-secular-stagnation-hypothesis-europe
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Demographics and the Secular Stagnation Hypothesis in Europe
Carlo Favero, Vincenzo Galasso,
            Sun, 10/18/2015
Demographic trends in Europe do not support empirically the secular stagnation hypothesis. Our evidence shows that the age structure of population generates less long-term growth but positive real rates. Policies for growth become very important. We assess the relevance of the demographic structure for the choice between macro adjustements and structural reforms. We show that middle aged and elderly individuals have a more negative view of reforms, competitiveness and globalization than young. Our results suggest that older countries -- in terms of share of elderly people -- should lean more towards macroeconomic adjustments, whereas younger nations will be more supportive of structural reforms.
a
A
Vox readers can download CEPR Discussion Paper 10887 for free here.
Journalists are entitled to free DP downloads on request; please contact [email protected]. To learn more about subscribing to CEPR's Discussion Paper Series, please visit the CEPR website.
URL: 

http://cepr.org/active/publications/discussion_papers/dp.php?dpno=10887
Topics: 

Macroeconomic policy
Tags: 

Europe, growth, real interest rates, stochastic mortality
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
