https://voxeu.org/taxonomy/term/10873
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Protecting lives and livelihoods with early and tight lockdowns
Francesca  Caselli, Francesco Grigoli, Weicheng Lian, Damiano Sandri, 16 November 2020
Non-pharmaceutical interventions remain key to slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. This column examines the impact of lockdowns on mobility in a large number of countries during the first seven months of the pandemic. Both lockdowns and voluntary social distancing helped contain the first wave of COVID-19. In particular, stringent and rapidly adopted lockdowns significantly slowed the spread of the virus. Despite their short-term economic costs, early and tight lockdowns may pave the way to a faster recovery.
Recovery capacity: Readiness for a new economic landscape
Margareta Drzeniek, Sheana Tambourgi, Ilaria Marchese, 12 November 2020
COVID-19 is accelerating structural transformations, notably towards more digitalised and more automated economies. This column presents a COVID-19 economic recovery index which considers the extent to which a country is exposed to major health effects from COVID-19, the degree to which a country’s economy will be affected by the crisis, and a country’s capacity to recover and rebuild to pre-COVID-19 levels. To guide their economies out of this crisis and to ready them for the coming transformation, governments need to restore trade flows, manage the risks of slowing global economic convergence, and actively prepare for accelerating economic transformation.
Economic expected losses and downside risks due to the Spanish flu
Roberto De Santis, Wouter Van der Veken, 11 November 2020
Understanding the economic impacts of a global pandemic is a key challenge for the economics profession. This column analyses the 1918-1920 Spanish flu to gain insights about the expected output losses and downside risks from such an event. It estimates an average output drop of 7% across the globe over the years 1918-1920, increased macroeconomic risks, and an increase in income inequality across countries. The expected real income loss is nearly twice as large for lower-income countries. As for the US, the estimated output fall due to the Spanish flu is small, but the macroeconomic risks are not negligible.
Gender differences in COVID-19 perception and compliance
Vincenzo Galasso, Vincent Pons, Paola Profeta, 07 November 2020
The efficacy of government lockdown measures to contain COVID-19 hinges on people’s willingness to comply. It is critical to identify and convince those who are the least compliant. This column surveyed over 21,000 respondents in eight OECD countries, in March and April 2020, on beliefs about COVID-19 and containment measures and their level of compliance with the measures. Men and women differ strikingly in both beliefs and behaviours, with women are more likely to take the pandemic seriously and more compliant than men. The findings suggest that public health communication should target men and women differently.
Resilience in a time of crisis
David Johnston, Claryn Kung, Michael A Shields, 05 November 2020
Building individual resilience is an important policy priority in many countries. This involves maintaining healthy levels of psychological and physical functioning in the presence of adverse events. This column documents the dramatic impact of the Covid-19 crisis on psychological distress in the UK. It shows neither financial resources nor religiosity, neighbourhood social capital, or cognitive skills were associated with a more resilient response to the crisis. In contrast, it finds that the non-cognitive skill ‘self-efficacy’ has been a strong predictor of resilience during the pandemic.
Post-Covid-19 exit strategies and economic challenges for emerging markets
Joshua Aizenman, Hiro Ito, 27 October 2020
The economic policies of the US in the post-COVID era will have important implications for the global economy. This column outlines two different exit strategies for the US from the COVID-related debt-overhang and analyses their implications for emerging markets and global stability. A strategy of continuing loose fiscal policies and accommodating monetary policies may spur short-term growth but would also increase the risks a deeper crisis in the future. Alternatively, the US could adopt a two-pronged approach of shifting fiscal priorities towards expenses with high social payoffs and then promoting fiscal adjustments aimed at a primary surplus and debt resilience. The post-WWII success story illustrates the feasibility of, and gains from, a two-pronged fiscal strategy.
Pandemics and inequality: A historical overview
Guido Alfani, 15 October 2020
The relationship between pandemics and inequality is of significant interest at the moment. The Black Death in the 14th century is one salient example of a pandemic which dramatically decreased wealth inequality, but this column argues that the Black Death is exceptional in this respect. Pandemics in subsequent centuries have failed to significantly reduce inequality, due to different institutional environments and labour market effects. This evidence suggests that inequality and poverty are likely to increase in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis.
Global connectedness, market power, and firms' resilience to domestic COVID-19 shocks
Jay Hyun, Daisoon Kim, Seung-Ryong  Shin, 10 October 2020
During periods of turmoil such as the Covid-19 pandemic, firms with more resilient business models tend to survive and expand more than others. This column presents evidence that firms with higher global connectedness and market power are more resilient to domestic pandemic shocks. While global production and export networks expose firms to foreign pandemic shocks, they potentially make firms less susceptible to domestic pandemic shocks through diversification of suppliers and markets. In addition, higher market power could provide buffers by allowing bigger margins of adjustment.
Face mask mandates slowed the spread of COVID-19 in Canada
Alexander Karaivanov, Shih En Lu, Hitoshi  Shigeoka, 09 October 2020
The mandatory wearing of face masks remains a contentious policy issue during the COVID-19 pandemic. This column evaluates the impact of mask mandates on the spread of COVID-19 in Canada, using the different timings that masks were mandated across the 34 health districts of the province of Ontario. Mask mandates are associated with a 25% or larger weekly reduction in new COVID-19 cases in July and August, relative to the absence of mandates. Requiring indoor masks nationwide in early July could have reduced new COVID-19 cases in Canada by 25%–40% in mid-August, which translates into between 700 and 1,100 fewer cases per week.
Forecasting the COVID-19 recession and recovery
Claudia Foroni, Massimiliano Marcellino, Dalibor Stevanovic, 29 September 2020
Forecasting the recession and recovery from the COVID-19 crisis is of substantial policy interest. The pandemic shock shares both similarities and differences with previous crises, such as the financial crisis of 2007-2009. This column evaluates the ability of different forecasting and nowcasting approaches to predict the COVID-19 economic shock and forecast the potential recovery path. It shows that adjusting for forecasting errors made during the financial crisis of 2007-2009 better aligns the COVID forecasts with observed data. The results suggest a slow recovery to pre-COVID-19 levels, lasting several years.
A tale of three depressions
Paul De Grauwe, Yuemei Ji, 24 September 2020
The coronavirus pandemic caused a catastrophic collapse in the world economy. This column analyses the path of this decline and compares it to two other major global crises: the Great Depression in the 1930s and the Great Recession following the banking crisis of 2007-2008. It argues that COVID-19 led to both negative demand and supply shocks, resulting in a contraction of industrial production at an unprecedented pace. However, a combination of strong government policies and a functioning banking sector have led to a swifter rebound in economic activity following the coronavirus shock in comparison with the previous two crises.
How Americans use time saved by working from home
Jose Maria Barrero, Nicholas Bloom, Steven Davis, 23 September 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic triggered a sudden, massive shift around the world to working from home. While there is great concern how this will affect inequality and how the economy will adjust, the shift has also saved billions of hours of commuting time in the US alone. Drawing on original surveys, this column estimates that the shift to working from home lowers commuting time among Americans by more than 60 million hours per workday. Americans devote about a third of the time savings to their primary jobs and about 60% to other work activities, including household chores and childcare. The allocation of time savings differs substantially by education group and between persons with and without children at home.
The international dimension of a fragile EMU
Demosthenes Ioannou, Maria Sole Pagliari, Livio Stracca, 18 September 2020
The debate over the incomplete and fragile nature of Europe’s Economic and Monetary Union has been revived by the Covid-19 pandemic. This column shows that adverse shocks within EMU can be identified and are transmitted to the rest of the world, with implications for economic activity and trade in advanced and emerging economies. Despite the important steps taken during the pandemic by euro area authorities, the drive to complete EMU with a genuine fiscal and financial union needs to continue for the sake of both the euro area and the rest of the world.
China’s mask diplomacy
Andreas Fuchs, Lennart Kaplan, Krisztina Kis-Katos, Sebastian S.  Schmidt, Felix  Turbanisch, Feicheng  Wang, 16 September 2020
China assumed an important role during the worldwide outbreak of COVID-19 as the main exporter of critical medical goods such as face masks and disinfectants. However, shipments of medical goods have been turned into propaganda campaigns by Chinese state media, raising the question if access to medical goods is granted upon political goodwill. This column uses official monthly trade data from Chinese Customs to investigate the emerging trade patterns, both for commercial exports and donations of medical goods. It shows that both existing trade linkages and political ties to Chinese provinces can help to attract Chinese medical goods.
International tourism and short-run growth
Yuxian Chen, Yannis Ioannides, 15 September 2020
With the COVID-19 pandemic raging at the beginning of the summer of 2020, countries that depend heavily on international tourism were confronted with the dilemma of whether or not to let travel restart. This column uses international data to explore the relationship between tourism specialisation and short-run economic growth. The results suggest that a 1% increase in tourism specialisation is associated with 0.01 percentage point increase in the growth rate of GDP per capita for OECD countries. This is in line with previous findings but is based on up-to-date panel data.
Labour market effects of COVID-19 in Sweden and its neighbours
Steffen Juranek, Jörg Paetzold, Hannes Winner, Floris Zoutman, 12 September 2020
Sweden attracted international attention for not imposing a strict lockdown after the outbreak of COVID-19. This column analyses the labour market effects of this strategy by comparing unemployment and furlough spells in Sweden to three of its Nordic neighbours. The evidence suggests that the labour markets of all countries were severely hit by the pandemic, but Sweden performed slightly better than its neighbours.
Socio-demographics predict behaviour during a pandemic
Nicholas W. Papageorge, Matthew Zahn, Michèle Belot, Eline van den Broek-Altenburg, Syngjoo  Choi, Julian C. Jamison, Egon Tripodi, 05 September 2020
Individual behaviours affect the spread of infectious disease. This column examines factors that predict individual behaviour during the COVID-19 pandemic in the US using novel survey data. People with lower income and less flexible work arrangements are less likely to engage in behaviours that limit the spread of disease. The burden of measures to stem the pandemic is unevenly distributed across socio-demographic groups in ways that affect behaviour and potentially the spread of illness. Policies that assume otherwise are unlikely to be effective or sustainable.
Internal migration and the spread of COVID-19
Michele Valsecchi, Ruben Durante, 02 September 2020
Many internal migrants returned to their place of origin after the initial outbreaks of COVID-19 and before national lockdowns were in place. Has this behaviour contributed to the further spread of the pandemic and to its heavy death toll? Looking at the case of Italy and using data on the place of origin and destination of internal migrants, this column finds that provinces more exposed to return migration from areas hit by the pandemic earlier on experienced considerably more COVID-19 deaths in the ensuing months.
Private and joint activities in the household
Sam Cosaert, Alexandros Theloudis, Bertrand  Verheyden, 28 August 2020
COVID-19 lockdowns and school closures have affected working hours and household income, with an unequal effect on women and men. The collective model of the household has hitherto ignored distinctions between private versus joint activities by parents in household time allocation. This column examines the evolving costs and benefits of togetherness, using Dutch data for 2009–2012, and speculates on how lockdown policies may affect togetherness and household welfare. Joint leisure and childcare generate a loss of flexibility in the labour market, and joint childcare prevents specialisation, generating tension between parental childcare quality and quantity.
Stable consensus on European mutual assistance is possible
Roel Beetsma, Brian Burgoon, Francesco  Nicoli, Anniek de Ruijter, Frank  Vandenbroucke, 21 August 2020
Building a large and durable consensus for mutual assistance policies in the EU is challenging. Even in times of crisis, member states express different preferences, and policies must reckon with democratic politics. This column presents evidence from a randomised survey to assess support for various EU budgetary assistance packages across five member states. A majority of packages are supported in all countries, although individual design features have significant effects on public approval. Importantly, it is possible to design packages such that they obtain majority support across all sampled countries, a key condition for success with policies of this kind.
Pages
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
