https://voxeu.org/content/topics/covid-19
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Covid-19
Resilience and fragility in global banking: Impacts on emerging economies
Marina Conesa Martínez, Giulia  Lotti, Andrew Powell, 20 November 2020
Global banks are highly connected, and banking systems are only as strong as the weakest links in the network. This column analyses cross-border syndicated lending to emerging and developing countries from 1993 to 2020 and finds evidence of both resilience and fragility in the global financial system. Contagion through co-lenders affected bank lending more strongly before and during the 2008-09 financial crisis but significantly less in a period after the crisis, consistent with the idea that the reduction in network density as a result of the crisis may have increased resilience to ‘normal shocks’. But Covid-19 is clearly no normal shock, and its impacts are likely spreading through the network, affecting the supply of loans to emerging economies.
Loneliness, happiness, and love in times of Covid-19
Daniel Hamermesh, 19 November 2020
The Covid-19 pandemic has changed not only how people spend time, but with whom they spend it. Partnered people may be spending more time with a spouse or cohabitor while singles spend more time alone. This column investigates how these changes in time allocation might affect individual feelings of wellbeing. Time diaries from the US and the UK suggest that married couples compelled to spend more time together may experience increased happiness, while the crisis could take an emotional toll on unmarried individuals forced to spend more time alone.
Macroprudential ring-fencing
Tomáš Konečný, Lukáš Pfeifer, 19 November 2020
The financial sector has an essential role to play in addressing the economic fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic. This column discusses the link between financial stability and restrictions on the mobility of capital along national borders of cross-border banking groups in the context of macroprudential capital buffers. It argues that apart from the direct absorption of systemic shocks, such macroprudential policies also enhance the performance of existing risk-sharing mechanisms, in particular in the case of synchronous shocks in the EU. The ESRB recommendation for restrictions of distributions during the pandemic contributes to the stabilising role of macroprudential capital buffers in the EU.
How to protect jobs during Covid-19: Lessons from Greece
Gordon  Betcherman, Mauro  Testaverde, 18 November 2020
The Covid-19 crisis has profoundly affected employment everywhere, but countries have adopted different strategies to try to mitigate the worst of the effects. This column compares the Greek experience to the rest of Europe, as well as to North America. The authors conclude that given the nature of the pandemic, models for managing labour market shocks will need to offer extended support where the shock persists or reoccurs. Crucially, successful policy approaches will need to be well suited for enabling job creation once conditions are in place for a restart.
Cross-border fallout from pandemic policy overdrive
Simon Evenett, Johannes Fritz, 17 November 2020
The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic meant governments faced their second systemic economic crisis in under 15 years. This column introduces the latest Global Trade Alert report, which documents the extensive cross-border spillovers created by government policy intervention during the first ten months of the year, much of it in response to the pandemic. The evidence challenges five common claims made by officials during crises and questions the current approach to crisis management found in WTO accords.
Other Recent Articles:
Tim Willems, 17 November 2020
Cevat Giray Aksoy, Barry Eichengreen, Orkun Saka, 16 November 2020
Thomas Plümper, Eric Neumayer, 16 November 2020
Francesca  Caselli, Francesco Grigoli, Weicheng Lian, Damiano Sandri, 16 November 2020
Elisabeth Grewenig, Philipp Lergetporer, Katharina Werner, Ludger Woessmann, Larissa Zierow, 15 November 2020
Timo B. Daehler, Joshua Aizenman, Yothin Jinjarak, 15 November 2020
Christine Arriola, Przemyslaw Kowalski, Frank van Tongeren, 15 November 2020
Martin Eichenbaum, Miguel Godinho de Matos, Francisco Lima, Sérgio Rebelo, Mathias Trabandt, 14 November 2020
Sonia Bhalotra, 13 November 2020
Marcella Alsan, Luca Braghieri, Sarah Eichmeyer, Minjeong Joyce Kim, Stefanie Stantcheva, David Yang, 13 November 2020
Daniel Gros, 12 November 2020
Nicola Fuchs-Schündeln, Dirk Krueger, Alexander Ludwig, Irina Popova, 12 November 2020
Margareta Drzeniek, Sheana Tambourgi, Ilaria Marchese, 12 November 2020
Fergal McCann, Terry O'Malley, 11 November 2020
Roberto De Santis, Wouter Van der Veken, 11 November 2020
Simon Evenett, Richard Baldwin, 10 November 2020
Per Engzell, Arun Frey, Mark Verhagen, 09 November 2020
Vincenzo Galasso, Vincent Pons, Paola Profeta, 07 November 2020
Pascal Lamy, 06 November 2020
Helios Herrera, Max Konradt, Guillermo Ordoñez, Christoph Trebesch, 06 November 2020
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
