https://voxeu.org/epubs/cepr-dps/climate-change-and-long-run-discount-rates-evidence-real-estate
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Climate Change and Long-Run Discount Rates: Evidence from Real Estate
Stefano Giglio, Matteo Maggiori, Johannes Stroebel, Andreas Weber,
            Sun, 11/29/2015
The optimal investment to mitigate climate change crucially depends on the discount rate used to evaluate the investment’s uncertain future benefits. The appropriate discount rate is a function of the horizon over which these benefits accrue and the riskiness of the investment. In this paper, we estimate the term structure of discount rates for an important risky asset class, real estate, up to the very long horizons relevant for investments in climate change abatement. We show that this term structure is steeply downward-sloping, reaching 2.6% at horizons beyond 100 years. We explore the implications of these new data within both a general asset pricing framework that decomposes risks and returns by horizon and a structural model calibrated to match a variety of asset classes. Our analysis demonstrates that applying average rates of return that are observed for traded assets to investments in climate change abatement is misleading.
a
A
Vox readers can download CEPR Discussion Paper 10958 for free here.
Journalists are entitled to free DP downloads on request; please contact [email protected]. To learn more about subscribing to CEPR's Discussion Paper Series, please visit the CEPR website.
URL: 

www.cepr.org/active/publications/discussion_papers/dp.php?dpno=10958
Topics: 

Environment
Tags: 

asset pricing, climate change, cost-benefit analysis, declining discount rates, environmental economics, real estate
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
