https://voxeu.org/epubs
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
ePubs
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
In the midst of profound contemporary shifts and shocks facing humankind, a quarter of a century after its creation the WTO is evidently not where pressing trade problems are being solved. Using the COVID-19 pandemic as a lens, this eBook offers insights into the underlying choices faced by WTO members and offers pragmatic suggestions for a WTO work programme over the next three years.
Publishing and Measuring Success in Economics
The publication process in economics is characterised by long publication lags and excessive weight given to a very small number of journals, while the profession itself is seen by many as hierarchical, clubby and characterised by gender and racial biases. This eBook takes stock of these issues with a series of short essays focusing on how economists publish their research and measure academic success.
Strengthening the Institutional Architecture of the Economic and Monetary Union
The crisis generated by the Covid-19 pandemic has required rapid and strong action. It also entails key choices, including on how the EU could help mitigate the impact of Covid-19, foster the economic recovery and support the dual green and digital transitions. In September 2019, before the crisis, the Directorate General for Economy and Finance of the European Commission organised a workshop on strengthening the institutional architecture of the EMU. This eBook presents the main ideas discussed at the workshop.
COVID-19 in Developing Economies
At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was hoped that warm weather and younger populations would shield many developing countries from the virus. This hope has not been realised. While the pandemic is mostly under control in many advanced economies, some developing countries in Africa and Latin America are registering an increase in the number of cases and may suffer long lasting consequences from the pandemic. This eBook, Co-published with the International Development Policy journal at the Graduate Institute in Geneva, summarises the early work focusing on developing and emerging economies.
The Bank Business Model in the Post-Covid-19 World
The effects from the Covid-19 crisis come on top of the combination over the past decade of persistently low interest rates, regulatory changes, and competition from shadow banks and new digital entrants that challenged the traditional bank business model pre-Covid-19. The second report in the CEPR/IESE series on The Future of Banking tackles these crucial challenges, examining the competitive responses of the different players – both incumbents and new entrants – and the associated policy and regulatory issues.
Other recent ePubs:
Ignazio Angeloni, 26 May 2020
Agnès Bénassy-Quéré, Beatrice Weder di Mauro, 22 May 2020
Stephen Broadberry, Mark Harrison, 04 May 2020
Richard Baldwin, Simon Evenett, 29 April 2020
Richard Baldwin, Beatrice Weder di Mauro, 18 March 2020
Richard Baldwin, Beatrice Weder di Mauro, 06 March 2020
Shelly Lundberg, 05 March 2020
David Bloom, 14 October 2019
Kathryn Petralia, Thomas  Philippon, Tara Rice, Nicolas Véron, 24 September 2019
San Bilal, Bernard Hoekman, 31 July 2019
Arancha  Gonzalez, Marion Jansen, 04 July 2019
Jean Pisani-Ferry, Jeromin Zettelmeyer, 13 June 2019
Patrick Bolton, Stephen Cecchetti, Jean-Pierre Danthine, Xavier Vives, 03 June 2019
Meredith A. Crowley, 30 May 2019
Antonio Fatás, 05 March 2019
Stephen Broadberry, Mark Harrison, 06 November 2018
José De Gregorio, Barry Eichengreen, Takatoshi Ito, Charles Wyplosz, 11 September 2018
Michael Casey, Jonah Crane, Gary Gensler, Simon Johnson, Neha Narula, 16 July 2018
Nauro Campos, Jan-Egbert Sturm, 29 May 2018
Dalia Marin, 09 May 2018
Pages
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
