https://voxeu.org/
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
VoxEU & CEPR Coverage of the Covid-19 Global Pandemic
Local labour market effects of the Brexit vote
Beata Javorcik, Ben  Kett, Katherine  Stapleton, Leyla O'Kane, 20 November 2020
The Brexit referendum created the threat of a trade policy reversal on an unprecedented scale, with the potential ‘unravelling’ of decades’ worth of deep integration between the UK and the world's most integrated trading bloc. This column examines how this affected UK labour demand. It finds that UK regions exposed to the threat of future barriers on professional services exports experienced a substantial decline in the posting of online job adverts after the Brexit vote, relative to less exposed regions. A back-of-the-envelope calculation indicates that this resulted in approximately 1.5 million fewer job adverts posted after the vote than might have occurred otherwise.
Resilience and fragility in global banking: Impacts on emerging economies
Marina Conesa Martínez, Giulia  Lotti, Andrew Powell, 20 November 2020
Global banks are highly connected, and banking systems are only as strong as the weakest links in the network. This column analyses cross-border syndicated lending to emerging and developing countries from 1993 to 2020 and finds evidence of both resilience and fragility in the global financial system. Contagion through co-lenders affected bank lending more strongly before and during the 2008-09 financial crisis but significantly less in a period after the crisis, consistent with the idea that the reduction in network density as a result of the crisis may have increased resilience to ‘normal shocks’. But Covid-19 is clearly no normal shock, and its impacts are likely spreading through the network, affecting the supply of loans to emerging economies.
Fintech and big tech credit markets around the world
Giulio Cornelli, Jon Frost, Leonardo Gambacorta, Raghavendra  Rau, Robert Wardrop, Tania Ziegler, 20 November 2020
Credit markets around the world are undergoing a transformation. Fintech and big tech firms are providing more lending to households and small businesses. Using a new database, this column estimates that fintech credit flows reached $223 billion in 2019, while big tech credit reached $572 billion. Both forms of credit are larger where there is greater (unmet) demand for credit and where economic and institutional factors favour the supply of such lending. The Covid-19 pandemic represents an important test for these new business models.
How Allied bombing and propaganda undermined German morale during WWII
Maja Adena, Ruben Enikolopov, Maria Petrova, Hans-Joachim Voth, 19 November 2020
In conflicts, adversaries aim for victory by using both direct and indirect forces to break the enemy’s will to resist. During WWII, Allied forces used strategic bombing and radio propaganda to undermine German morale. This column compares German domestic resistance to the Nazi regime, based on treason trial records, with the monthly volume of bombing and the locations of BBC radio transmitters. Where radio reception was better and Allied air forces bombed more heavily, German domestic resistance was markedly more likely, despite the draconian punishments for even the mildest transgressions.
Loneliness, happiness, and love in times of Covid-19
Daniel Hamermesh, 19 November 2020
The Covid-19 pandemic has changed not only how people spend time, but with whom they spend it. Partnered people may be spending more time with a spouse or cohabitor while singles spend more time alone. This column investigates how these changes in time allocation might affect individual feelings of wellbeing. Time diaries from the US and the UK suggest that married couples compelled to spend more time together may experience increased happiness, while the crisis could take an emotional toll on unmarried individuals forced to spend more time alone.
Other Recent Columns:
Tomáš Konečný, Lukáš Pfeifer, 19 November 2020
Antoine Bozio, Bertrand Garbinti, Jonathan Goupille-Lebret, Malka Guillot, Thomas Piketty, 18 November 2020
Gordon  Betcherman, Mauro  Testaverde, 18 November 2020
Simon Evenett, Johannes Fritz, 17 November 2020
Pierre-Philippe Combes, Gilles Duranton, Laurent  Gobillon, Clément Gorin, Yanos Zylberberg, 17 November 2020
Joost Bats, Massimo Giuliodori, Aerdt Houben, 17 November 2020
Tim Willems, 17 November 2020
Cevat Giray Aksoy, Barry Eichengreen, Orkun Saka, 16 November 2020
Thomas Plümper, Eric Neumayer, 16 November 2020
Francesca  Caselli, Francesco Grigoli, Weicheng Lian, Damiano Sandri, 16 November 2020
Ethan Ilzetzki, 16 November 2020
Elisabeth Grewenig, Philipp Lergetporer, Katharina Werner, Ludger Woessmann, Larissa Zierow, 15 November 2020
Erica  Myers, Steve Puller, Jeremy West, 15 November 2020
Joshua Gans, 15 November 2020
Christine Arriola, Przemyslaw Kowalski, Frank van Tongeren, 15 November 2020
Timo B. Daehler, Joshua Aizenman, Yothin Jinjarak, 15 November 2020
Monica Deza, Catherine Maclean, Keisha Solomon, 14 November 2020
Martin Eichenbaum, Miguel Godinho de Matos, Francisco Lima, Sérgio Rebelo, Mathias Trabandt, 14 November 2020
Matthias Kehrig, Nicolas Vincent, 14 November 2020
Manuel A. Muñoz, 14 November 2020
Taxing the superrich
More
Most Read
Blogs&Reviews
Next Generation EU: Europe needs pan-European investment
Why is COVID-19 incidence in authoritarian China so much lower than in the democratic US: Effectiveness of collective action or Chinese cover-up?
The joy of statistics
Ode to muddling through
Undoing the flight to quality: A multilateral countercyclical liquidity fund
Vox eBooks
Revitalising Multilateralism: Pragmatic Ideas for the New WTO Director-General
Evenett, Baldwin, 10 November 2020
More eBooks
Vox Talks
The secret war in Laos
Listen
More Vox Talks
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
