https://voxeu.org/events/geneva-trade-and-development-workshop
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
30th November 2020 - 14th December 2020, Online
Join us for the Fall 2020 series:
Online Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
Mondays, 10AM (ET), 3PM (GMT), 4PM (CET)
The GTDW is an established regular trade and development seminar series organized jointly by the Geneva School of Economics and Management of the University of Geneva (GSEM), the Graduate Institute in Geneva (IHEID), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO). After twelve years of running as an on-site seminar, the online edition of GTDW is co-organized with the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR). Visit GTDW's website for further information: www.gtdw.ch.
Organizers:
Julia Cajal-Grossi (IHEID)Monika Mrázová (GSEM and CEPR)Frédéric Robert-Nicoud (GSEM and CEPR)
Schedule:
Each meeting will take place on a Monday at 10.00 AM (ET) / 3.00 PM (GMT) / 4.00 PM (CET) and last for 1 hour and 15 minutes.
The line-up of speakers is as follows:
The seminar will consist of a 60 minute presentation, followed by 15 minutes of open discussion. During the presentation, the audience will be automatically muted and may submit questions using the Q&A facility. The hosts will collect a few questions of general interest and relay them to the speaker at intervals, ensuring the flow of the seminar. The last 15 minutes of the event will be reserved for an open discussion, where participants may raise their hand to ask questions live, directly to the speaker.
The events will be live-streamed on YouTube and will be available in real time on GTDW's webpage (www.gtdw.ch). Video recordings of past seminars will be held in a repository on www.gtdw.ch. Please note that you may be recorded if you ask a question live during the Q&A.
Abuse of the seminar will not be tolerated.
Register online
Organizer(s): 

              Julia Cajal, Monika Mrazova, Frederic Robert-Nicoud
Contact Email: 

[email protected]
Event Type: 

              Workshop
Location: 

              Online
Attendance: 

              Yes
Institution: 

              CEPR, the Graduate Institute Geneva, GSEM, UNCTAD and the World Trade Organization.
More information: 

https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/6616009373120/WN_L9H1-ZgaTzWbvesQDQfxoQ
Disclaimer: Vox is not responsible for the accuracy of this information.
Topics: 

Development International trade
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
Subscribe
