body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Nov
		  DEC
		  Jan
		  25
		  2014
		  2015
		  2017
	      	      443 captures
	      02 Oct 2002 - 18 Mar 2020
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Alexa Crawls
	  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
		Collection: Alexa Crawls
	  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
    TIMESTAMPS
    History of Eggnog
			© copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley - United States Copyright 
			TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved.  
			This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part 
			without permission and appropriate credit given. If you quote any of 
			the history information contained below for research in writing a 
			magazine or newspaper article, school work or college research, 
			and/or television show production, you must give a reference to the 
			author, Nanna Rognvaldardottir, and to the web site What's Cooking 
			America.
			Home   
			 |   
			Recipe Indexes 
			  |   Dinner 
			Party Menus   |   
			Food History  
			|   
			Diet - Health - Beauty
			Baking Corner 
			|  Regional 
			Foods | Cooking 
			Articles 
			|  
			Hints &amp; Tips
			| Culinary 
			Dictionary 
			|
			Newspaper 
			Columns
	History of Eggnog
	by Nanna Rognvaldardottir of Iceland
		Eggnog literally means eggs inside a 
small cup. It is used as a toast to ones health. Nog is an old English dialect 
word (from East Anglia) of obscure origins that was used to describe a kind of 
strong beer (hence noggin). It is first recorded in the seventeenth century. 
Eggnog, however, is first mentioned in the early nineteenth century but seems to 
have been popular on both sides of the Atlantic at that time. An alternative 
British name was egg flip. 
		It all began in England, where 
eggnog was the trademark drink of the upper class. "You have to remember, the 
average Londoner rarely saw a glass of milk," says author/historian James Humes 
(July 1997, "To Humes It May Concern"), former speech writer and adviser to four 
presidents. "There was no refrigeration, and the farms belonged to the big 
estates. Those who could get milk and eggs to make eggnog mixed it with brandy 
or Madeira or even sherry." But it became most popular in America, where farms 
and dairy products were plentiful, as was rum. Rum came to these  shores 
via the Triangular Trade from the Caribbean; thus it was far more affordable 
than the heavily taxed brandy or other European spirits that it replaced at our 
forefather's holiday revels."
An English creation, it descended 
from a hot British drink called posset, which consists of eggs, milk, and ale or 
wine. The recipe for eggnog (eggs beaten with sugar, milk or cream, and some 
kind of spirit) has traveled well, adapting to local tastes wherever it has 
landed. In the American South, bourbon replaced ale (though nog, the British 
slang for strong ale, stuck). Rich, strong eggnog — the richer and stronger, the 
better — is no stranger to holiday celebrations in New Orleans, and at this  
time of year the drink takes its place alongside syllabubs on the traditional 
southern table. (Syllabub is a less potent mixture than eggnog but just as rich. 
Made with milk, sugar and wine, it straddles the line between drink and liquid 
dessert.) 
Eggnog goes by the name coquito in 
Puerto Rico, where, not surprisingly, rum is the liquor of choice (as it is 
these days for many eggnog lovers in the U.S.). There the drink has the added 
appeal of being made with fresh coconut juice or coconut milk. Mexican eggnog, 
known as rompope, was  created in the convent of Santa Clara in the state 
of Puebla. The basic recipe is augmented with a heavy dose of Mexican cinnamon 
and rum or grain alcohol, and the resulting drink is sipped as a liqueur. In 
Peru, holidays are celebrated with a biblia con pisco, an eggnog made with the 
Peruvian pomace brandy called pisco. 
The Germans make a eggnog or rather 
egg soup with beer (Biersuppe). Here in Iceland, we do have a soup here that 
resembles eggnog somewhat but there is no alcohol in it. It is served hot as a 
dessert. Other than that, we have nothing that resembles eggnog and no eggnog 
traditions. 
 Contact 
Linda Stradley - By 
Google 
What's Cooking America© copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley - United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. - 
Privacy Policy
