body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Oct
		  DEC
		  Mar
		  24
		  2009
		  2010
		  2012
	      	      13 captures
	      12 Oct 2009 - 24 Dec 2019
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Internet Archive
	  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.
At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.
View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
		Collection: Wide Crawl started October 2010
	  Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from October 2010
    TIMESTAMPS
    Edith Cowan University
      Skip Links
      The following access keys are available throughout this site. The number one will bring you back to the 
        top of the page and to this skip links menu. The number two will take you to the main content, the number three will take
        you to the primary navigation, and the number four will take you to local navigation when available.
        Skip to main content
        Skip to global site navigation
        Skip to local section navigation (not available on home page)
    Global Site Navigation
       About ECU
       Future Students
       Research
       Community
    Search entire site:
			Research			
   Site tools: 
   Preferences | 
   Site feedback | 
   A+ 
   A-
      You are here:  ECU Home
			 &gt;              Research 
           &gt;              Research showcase 
           &gt; 			
        Local Section Navigation
                Overview                
                Research profile                
                        Research centres                        
                        Research strengths                        
                News                
                Research showcase                
                Office of Research and Innovation                
                        Contact                        
                IP and Commercialisation                
                        Commercialisation portfolio                        
                Ethics and research                
                Graduate Research School                
                Research Week                
                        Overview                        
                        Events                        
                        News                        
                        3MT Competition (Three Minute Thesis)                        
                        Research journeys                        
Professor Kamal Alameh
Electron Science Research Institute
The Electron Science Research Institute (ESRI) was established at Edith Cowan University in 2003. It has rapidly established a reputation for excellence in fundamental and applied research. The focus is on the integration of microelectronics and photonics and to venture into related areas of nanotechnology to develop novel integrated intelligent structures. The Institute provides Micro-/Nano-Photonic fabrication technology and services in the ICT, Health, Agri-bio, Security, Sensing, Defence and Environment sectors.
ESRI has previously won the WA Inventor of the Year Early Stage Category, for high-speed chip-to-chip optical interconnects which will enable next generation computers to improve their speed by 100 times in comparison to conventional PCs.
ESRI's provides a stimulating research environment with R&amp;D capabilities in four key areas:
  Nano-engineered system fabrication and characterisation
  MicroPhotonic system design and development
  Electronic Design and development
  Integration of Micro/Nano systems.
ESRI's NanoPhotonic facility and its research program on magneto-optical materials has delivered novel products with applications in telecommunication switching, magnetically-controlled photonic integrated circuits, optical data processing and storage, and environmental sensors. The outstanding research track-record is built on extensive collaboration with national and international experts in electron science and the outstanding research infrastructure housed in ESRI. Among its 17 international and national research collaborators are Gwangju Institute of Science &amp; Technology, Korea, Institute of Micro Technology, Russia; and Fudan and Shenzhen Universities, China. This is in addition to a wide range of industry partners.
ESRI's researchers have access to state-of-the-art MicroPhotonic facilities. Recently, a NanoPhotonic fabrication facility has been established at ESRI. This facility will enable the growth of layers of different materials as thin as several nanometers, to realize novel nano-engineered photonic crystal structures and custom engineered materials and devices. Through these collaborations and excellent facilities, new and exciting possibilities are available for research, student exchange and access to world-class fabrication facilities. Students in ESRI's postgraduate education program acquire hands-on experience via applied research and industry projects and their work is achieving international recognition through its publication in top-ranking optics journals.
Contact
Director, Professor Kamal Alameh
Phone: +61 8 6304 5836
Email: k.alameh@ecu.edu.au
    Supplemental Site Navigation
      Got a Question? Ask Us
      Contact us
      Phone 134 ECU (134 328)
      International: +61 8 6304 0000
      Campus maps
      Bookshop
      International
      Library
      Online payments
      Alumni
      News
      Media
      Jobs at ECU
      Copyright, Disclaimer, Privacy
      Emergency
      Report errors
      Sitemap
         Last reviewed 19 Aug 2010
      CRICOS IPC 00279B
        Skip to top of page
