body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Dec
		  JAN
		  Mar
		  18
		  2015
		  2016
		  2018
	      	      7 captures
	      18 Jan 2016 - 06 Oct 2020
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Internet Archive
	  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.
At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.
View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
		Collection: Live Web Proxy Crawls
	  Content crawled via the Wayback Machine Live Proxy mostly by the Save Page Now feature on web.archive.org.
Liveweb proxy is a component of Internet Archive’s wayback machine project. The liveweb proxy captures the content of a web page in real time, archives it into a ARC or WARC file and returns the ARC/WARC record back to the wayback machine to process. The recorded ARC/WARC file becomes part of the wayback machine in due course of time.
    TIMESTAMPS
Login
The Contras and U.S. policy in Central America
DigitalGeorgetown Repository
DigitalGeorgetown Home
Digital and  Special Collections @ Georgetown University
Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives Videos
View Item
The Contras and U.S. policy in Central America
Show full item record
                  ﻿ 
Title: 
The Contras and U.S. policy in Central America
Moderator: 
Krogh, Peter F. (Peter Frederic)
Person Interviewed: 
Abrams, Elliott
Abstract: 
In this interview, Elliott Abrams discusses the situation in Nicaragua and makes the argument for American support of the Contras.
Description: 
In this episode of American Interests, host Peter Krogh sits down for a conversation with Elliott Abrams. Abrams served as Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs under President Reagan, and was a primary architect of U.S. Central America policy for much of the 1980s. A prominent advocate of American aid to the Contras, Abrams would eventually be implicated in the Iran-Contra affair. He later served as a senior national security adviser in the administration of George W. Bush. In this interview, Abrams makes the case for continued support of the anti-communist forces waging war against the Sandinista regime, and discusses the situation on the ground in Nicaragua.
Permanent Link: 
http://hdl.handle.net/10822/552675
Date Created: 
1987
Subject: 
Counterrevolutionaries -- Nicaragua; Iran-Contra Affair, 1985-1990; United States -- Military relations -- Nicaragua; Nicaragua -- Military relations -- United States; Nicaragua -- Politics and government -- 1979-1990; Conflict and War; United States Role in the World; Contras; Iran-Contra Affair; Sandinistas; United States Aid to the Contras
Location: 
Mexico, Central America and the CaribbeanNicaragua
        ﻿ 
Files in this item
Files
Size
Format
View
There are no files associated with this item.
This item appears in the following Collection(s)
Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives Videos
Show full item record
Related items
Showing items related by title, author, creator and subject.
               ﻿  
Sanctuary Movement and U.S. policy in Central America
Krogh, Peter F. (Peter Frederic) (WETA-TV (Television station : Washington, D.C.), Blackwell Corporation (Washington  D.C.), Georgetown University. School of Foreign Service, South Carolina Educational Television Network, 1985-10-26)
               ﻿  
Central America, Nicaragua and El Salvador
Krogh, Peter F. (Peter Frederic) (1990)
               ﻿  
Central America, Nicaragua and El Salvador
Krogh, Peter F. (Peter Frederic) (Connecticut Public Television, World Beat Associates, Georgetown University. School of Foreign Service, Foreign Policy Association, 1990)
Related Items in Google Scholar
Search DigitalGeorgetown
Search DigitalGeorgetown
This Collection
Browse
All of DigitalGeorgetown
Communities &amp; Collections
Authors
Titles
By Creation Date
This Collection
Authors
Titles
By Creation Date
My Account
Login
©2009 - 2016 Georgetown University Library
37th &amp; O Streets NW
      Washington DC 20057-1174
      202.687.7385
digitalscholarship@georgetown.edu
mobile site
