body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Mar
		  APR
		  May
		  25
		  2017
		  2018
		  2019
	      	      12 captures
	      23 Apr 2018 - 30 Sep 2019
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Internet Archive
	  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
		Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
	  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
    TIMESTAMPS
REKLAMA
					PolskieRadio.pl
					Jedynka
					Dwójka
					Trójka
					Czwórka
					Radio Poland
					Moje Polskie Radio
					ramówka
							LISTEN LIVE
							Kanały internetowe »
        Szukaj w serwisie
                        Home
                        News
                                         | 
                                            National
                                         | 
                                            Foreign Affairs
                                         | 
                                            Business
                                         | 
                                            Sport
                                         | 
                                            Culture
                        Radio
                                         | 
                                            Schedule
                                         | 
                                            Podcast
                                         | 
                                            How to Listen
                        Most Popular
                        About Us
                        Contact Us
                Former Polish MP charged with spying for Russia, China: report
                        PR dla Zagranicy
                        Grzegorz Siwicki
                        23.04.2018 13:00
                    A former MP and politician in Poland has been charged with espionage for Russia and China, according to a report.
                        Photo: Msporch/pixabay.com/CC0 Creative Commons
                         The politician, identified only as "Mateusz P." under Polish privacy laws, was detained by the country’s Internal Security Agency (ABW) in 2016.
Mateusz P., who was once an MP for Poland’s Samoobrona (Self-Defence) party and headed the Zmiana (Change) grouping, has been charged with working for the Russian and Chinese intelligence services and against Poland’s national interests, broadcaster RMF FM reported, citing a bill of indictment that it said prosecutors had submitted against the suspect.
A regional branch of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Poland’s central Mazowieckie province has sent the bill of indictment to a court, RMF FM reported on Monday.
Prosecutors believe that Mateusz P. in his former role as a politician -- using his numerous contacts at home and abroad, among journalists and in political circles -- promoted Russia’s national interests, RMF FM reported.
He is also suspected of provoking anti-Polish sentiment among Ukrainians and anti-Ukrainian sentiment among Poles, RMF FM said. According to prosecutors, his actions aimed to deepen divisions between Poland and Ukraine.
According to prosecutors, Mateusz P. undertook these activities in conspiracy with Russian security services and obtained substantial financial gain in exchange, RMF FM reported.
The broadcaster cited prosecutors as saying an investigation had revealed that Mateusz P. also worked for the Chinese intelligence service against Poland’s national interests until October 2015.
When Mateusz P. was detained in 2016, the deputy head of the Change grouping, Konrad Rękas, said that Internal Security Agency officers had searched the apartments of members of the grouping’s national authorities, demanding the handover of hard drives, data storage devices, documents, and other items, RMF FM reported.
Rękas insisted at the time that Mateusz P. and other Change activists were "doing business in accordance with the law in Poland, despite being harassed by state authorities," according to RMF FM.
Spying carries a prison term of one to 10 years in Poland, RMF FM reported.
(gs/pk)
Source: rmf24.pl
                    tags: 
                    espionage, hp polskie radio
                    Print
                Poleć znajomemu-->
                        Adres email znajomego
                        Komentarz
                        Podpis
                    Poleć
REKLAMA
        Facebook
        Twitter
        Rss
        Podcast
            Featured Radio
                        Q&amp;A; :: Sharing Economy Center in Pozna ...
                        Activists living in Poznan, western Poland, who believe in zero waste philo ...
                        BALANCE :: Poland improves its economi ...
                        Ratings agency S&amp;P; Global affirmed Poland's BBB+ credit rating and boosted ...
            Most Popular
                        Polish airline LOT orders thre ...
                        Polish, Ethiopian presidents t ...
                        Poland, US sign 10-year scienc ...
                        Polish politician accuses Puti ...
                        Ethiopian president comes to W ...
            Radio Shorts
                Opportunities for Polish companies in Tanzania
                A conference presenting business opportunities for Polish companies in Tanzania was held on Tuesday at the National Chamber of Commerce in Warsaw. 
                Exhibits from 1939 World's Fair back in Poland
                The Polish History Museum has just received a magnificent collection of items from the Polish exhibit at the 1939 World's Fair in New York.
                    How to listen
                    Podcast
                    Schedules
-->
                    RSS
                    Contact Us
        Copyright © Polskie Radio S.A 
            About Us
            Contact Us
