body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Jun
		  JUL
		  Aug
		  02
		  2006
		  2007
		  2008
	      	      171 captures
	      02 Jul 2007 - 28 May 2018
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Internet Archive
	  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.
At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.
View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
		Collection: Around The World Crawl
	  Data crawled by Sloan Foundation on behalf of Internet Archive
    TIMESTAMPS
					Mount Erebus Volcano Observatory
						Site Map 
					| 
						Contact Us 
								Home
										About
										FAQ
										Current Activity
										News
										Blog
										Publications
										Links
								Geology
										Evolution
										Maps
										Lava Lake
								Geochemistry
										Lava Chemistry
										Gas Chemistry
										Isotope Chemistry
								Geophysics
										Seismic Network
										Real-Time Seismicity
										Seismic Studies
										Infrasound
										GPS
										Deformation
								Environmental
										Environ. Network
										Environ. Stations
										Environ. Channels
										All Data
								Video
										LIVE Video
										Movies
										VR
								Photos
Science
General Interest
Photographers
								Data Repository
										Journals
										Student Theses
										Miscellaneous
								Publications
										In Press
										Recent (2005-2006)
										All Pubs (A to G)
										All Pubs (H to R)
										All Pubs (S to Z)
					MEVO
				/ 
					About
							Current Summit View
							Current Crater View
					Mt. Erebus Volcano
						About
						FAQCurrent ActivityNewsBlogPublicationsLinks
							Updates
								Visit the Washington Post's multimedia presentation on Mt. Erebus and Antarctica, featuring photographs by George Steinmetz. 
							Read an article from  Santa Fe New Mexican  about Professor Phil Kyle and his travels to Mt. Erebus.
						Welcome to the 3rd generation of the Mt. Erebus Volcano Observatory (MEVO) homepage. This site has been predominantly designed as a vehicle for making accessible ongoing integrated Geology , Geochemistry, and Geophysics research on Mt. Erebus. In addition, this site also provides links to the more "visceral" Live Video and movies of eruptions from the Mt. Erebus lava lake. It is our goal to try to provide as much information as possible about all things Erebus. However, this site is also designed not to be overwhelmingly technical, and thus be useful and interesting to both the general public and to the scientific community.
									Name: 
								Mt. Erebus
									Discovered: 
								1841 by James Ross and crew
									First Ascent: 
								1908 (to crater rim) by members of Ernest Shackleton's expedition
										Geographic Location: 
								Ross Island, Antarctica
									Summit Latitude/Longitude: 
								77°32'S, 167°10'E
									Elevation: 
								3794 meters
									Average winter temperature: 
								approx. -60° Celcius
									Average summer temperature: 
								approx. -20° Celcius
									Type: 
								Stratovolcano
									Age: 
								Active from ~1.3 million years ago to present
									Petrology: 
								Basanite to Trachyte
									Eruptive style (prehistoric): 
								Large volume lava flows
									Eruptive style (historic): 
								Frequent Strombolian eruptions.
								Infrequent ash eruptions.
								Rare lava flows confined to inner crater.
									Notable features: 
								Persistent convecting phonolite lava lake.
								Persistent low-level eruptive activity.
								One of Earth's few long-lived lava lakes.
								Most active volcano in Antarctica.
								Lavas and bombs contain large (&lt;10 cm) phenocrysts (crystals) of anorthoclase feldspar.
							Mt. Erebus is centrally located on Ross Island, Antarctica. 
						Mt. Erebus (77°32'S, 167°10'E), Ross Island, Antarctica is the worldís southern-most active volcano. Discovered in 1841 by James Ross, it is one of only a very few volcanoes in the world with a long-lived (decades or more) lava lake. Scientific research, sponsored by the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) since began the early 1970ís had included basic study of the petrology and geophysics of the volcano, the eruptive history, activity and degassing behavior of the lava lake, and the overall impact of the volcano on the Antarctica and global environment.
						Research on Mt. Erebus has been primarily conducted by scientists in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science and the Bureau of Geology and Mineral resources at the 
							New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology. Each austral summer, a group of scientists and students ascend the volcano to live and work for several weeks (early December to early January). Current research consists of 1) continued monitoring of the SO2 flux from the lava lake, 2) measuring the CO2 emissions from the lava lake and summit, 3) geochronology of the summit and flank lava flows, 4) continued monitoring of the seismic and seismoacoustic activity of the volcano through the use of a network of highly-sensitive broad-band seismometers, 5) establishing a GPS base network to monitor the short- and long-term deformation of the volcano.
							Mount Erebus is located on Ross Island in the Ross Sea. Ross Island is composed of of Mt. Erebus and three other extinct major volcanic centers: Mt. Bird to the north, Mt. Terror to the east, and Hut Point Peninsula to the south (the far southern point of Hut Point Peninsula is the location of McMurdo Station - the main US base in Antarctica - and Scott Base - the main New Zealand base in Antarctica. 
						Home
					| 
						Geology
					| 
						Geochemistry
					| 
						Geophysics
					| 
						Environmental
					| 
						Video
					| 
						Photos
					| 
						Data Repository
					| 
						Publications
					|Site Map
					| 
						Contact Us
					©2006 MEVO
