body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Nov
		  DEC
		  Feb
		  31
		  2010
		  2011
		  2014
	      	      18 captures
	      31 Dec 2011 - 17 Jan 2020
       About this capture
    TIMESTAMPS
              BBC Accessibility links    Skip to content  Skip to local navigation  Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Help Accessibility Help         
    	                	            	    	            		Africa
        	            	Home
        	            	US &amp; Canada
        	            	Latin America
        	            	UK
        	        		Africa
        	            	Asia
        	            	Europe
        	            	Mid-East
        	            	Business
        	            	Health
        	            	Sci/Environment
        	            	Tech
        	            	Entertainment
        	            	Video
    31 December 2011
Last updated at 07:31 ET  
  Share this page
      Delicious
      Digg
      Facebook
      reddit
      StumbleUpon
      Twitter
      Email
      Print
	Ethiopian troops capture Beledweyne from Somalia militants
		Continue reading the main story		Related Stories
						Q&amp;A: Al-Shabab
											The cost of anarchy
											Somalia profile
                      Ethiopian forces have captured the central Somali town of Beledweyne from al-Shabab Islamist militants.
        Al-Shabab said its forces were surrounding the town after making what it called a planned withdrawal.  
        Eyewitnesses said armoured vehicles and heavy artillery were used in the attack, which Ethiopia said was made at the request of the Somali government. 
        Somalia's prime minister meanwhile announced an operation "to liberate the tyranny of... al-Shabab from Somalia".
        "Early this morning, the Somali National Army recaptured some al-Shabab-occupied territories engaging the enemies in Hiiraan and other regions of the country," said Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, head of Somalia's Transitional Federal Government (TFG)
        "We are officially requesting for momentous support from neighbouring countries such as Ethiopia and the international community at large to assist the Somali people and its government with this historic operation." 
  'Planned withdrawal'
	      Al-Shabab fighters withdrew from Beledweyne after a fierce hours-long battle in which local residents had joined "the Mujahideen" to fight against more than 3,000 Ethiopian troops, according to messages posting on a twitter account reportedly run by al-Shabab's press office.
        "Sheikh Abu Mus'ab, HSM Military Spokesman, has declared a planned withdrawal from the city and Mujahideen are now surrounding the city," read a tweet posted around 11:30 GMT on Saturday. 
        Twenty people were killed in the fighting, a BBC Somali reporter said, mostly Ethiopian troops and al-Shabab fighters.
        Beledweyne is a strategic town near the Ethiopian border on the road to Somalia's capital, Mogadishu.
        It was through the town that Ethiopia entered the country during 2006 and from it that its troops were driven in 2008, finally withdrawing back into Ethiopia, says BBC Africa analyst Martin Plaut.
        An Ethiopian government spokesman, Bereket Simon, told the BBC's Newshour programme: "The TFG has called on neighbouring countries including Ethiopia to assist this operation militarily so that's why we have entered." 
        Last month, Ethiopia denied that its troops had returned to Somalia - about two years after they withdrew after suffering heavy casualties. 
        The AU has about 9,000 troops in Mogadishu under a UN Security Council mandate to battle the al-Qaeda-linked group.
        Foreign military intervention in Somalia is intended to prevent al-Shabab from overthrowing the weak interim government led by Somalia's President Sheikh Sharif Ahmed - a moderate Islamist.
        Al-Shabab announced a "tactical withdrawal" from Mogadishu in August after fierce fighting with AU forces.  
        AU commanders in Somalia say they need about 20,000 troops to hold on to territory captured from al-Shabab. 
        Somalia has not had a functioning central government for more than 20 years and has been wracked by fighting between various militias.
	More on This Story
    Related Stories
                        Q&amp;A: Al-Shabab            
        				17 OCTOBER 2011, 
                        AFRICA          
                        The cost of anarchy            
        				26 JANUARY 2011, 
                        AFRICA          
                        Somalia profile            
        				21 NOVEMBER 2011, 
                        AFRICA          
From other news sites
    Yahoo! UK and Ireland  Ethiopian, Somali troops take key city from militants 1 hr ago
    Reuters UK  Ethiopia troops attack rebels in Somali town - residents 4 hrs ago
About these results
	Related Internet links
	            African Union
	Around the BBC
	            Africa Today
        The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
  Share this page
      Delicious
      Digg
      Facebook
      reddit
      StumbleUpon
      Twitter
      Email
      Print
	More Africa stories
        RSS	
	Nigeria attacks prompt emergency
							Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan declares a state of emergency in areas targeted by Islamist militants, who killed dozens on Christmas Day.
	UN sends troops to S Sudan town
	'Record year' for ivory seizures
			Top stories
	Nigeria attacks prompt emergency
	League 'concern' at Syria snipers
	Revellers mark turn of the year
	Bird flu virus kills Chinese man
	Kim Jong-un named army commander
			Features &amp; Analysis
	Four-hour trip?
							Could London-Sydney hypersonic flight become a reality? 	
	'Miracle drug'
							New pill said to cure hangovers - is this possible? 	
	In pictures
							Tripoli zoo gets back on its feet after revolution 	
	Opening up
							Brazil gears up for new freedom of information law 	
			Most Popular
					Shared
    1: Diet 'can stop brain shrinking'
    2: New Year's Eve celebrations start
    3: Knighthood for Apple design head
    4: In pictures: New Year 2012
    5: Long-lost ring 'found on carrot'
					Read
    1: Long-lost ring 'found on carrot'
    2: Nigieria vow to 'crush miltants'
    3: Knighthood for Apple design head
    4: New Year's Eve celebrations start
    5: Could hypersonic flight become a reality?
    6: In pictures: New Year 2012
    7: League 'concern' at Syria snipers
    8: Iran denies missile test reports
    9: Diet 'can stop brain shrinking'
    10: Brand files for split from Perry
					Video/Audio
    1: Nigeria's president declares state of emergency Watch
    2: Fireworks mark New Year in NZ Watch
    3: Bleak future for Tripoli zoo animals? Watch
    4: Sex party for German insurance staff Watch
    5: Has China mother had octuplets? Watch
    6: Regime 'toying with Syria observers' Watch
    7: Will Occupy camps return in 2012? Watch
    8: Hogmanay celebrations begin in Edinburgh Watch
    9: Dozens dead as India hit by cyclone Watch
    10: Gingrich weeps at campaign event Watch
			Programmes
	Click  Watch
		Our technology experts review all the latest must-have gadgets for the New Year
      Services
          News feeds
          Mobile
          Podcasts
          Alerts
          E-mail news
      About BBC News
         Editors' blog
         BBC College of Journalism
         News sources
         World Service Trust
         Mobile               Search term:       bbc.co.uk navigation     News Sport Weather   Travel   TV  Radio More          CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food Health   History Learning Music Science Nature   Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites          You're using the Internet Explorer 6 browser to view the BBC website. Our site will work much better if you change to a more modern browser. It's free, quick and easy. Find out more about upgrading your browser here&hellip;        BBC links        About the BBC       BBC Help        Contact Us        Accessibility Help       Terms of Use       Careers       Privacy &amp; Cookies        Advertise With Us       Ad Choices          BBC © 2011 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.   
