body {
  margin-top:0 !important;
  padding-top:0 !important;
  /*min-width:800px !important;*/
}
                  success
          fail
		  Dec
		  JAN
		  May
		  27
		  2012
		  2013
		  2014
	      	      11 captures
	      27 Jan 2013 - 26 Oct 2019
       About this capture
    COLLECTED BY
		Organization: Internet Archive
	  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.
At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.
View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
		Collection: Wide Crawl Started January 2013
	  Wide crawls of the Internet conducted by Internet Archive. Access to content is restricted. Please visit the Wayback Machine to explore archived web sites.
    TIMESTAMPS
            You are here: Home&gt;Collections&gt;Civil AviationMinistries in row over Safdarjung Airport landSaurabh Sinha, TNN Apr 13, 2011, 05.56am ISTNEW DELHI: The fight between the aviation and urban development (UD) ministries over Safdarjung Airport's land has intensified. The prime VVIP location airport plot has been designated as a "recreational" area in Delhi's Master Plan. The aviation ministry realized the changed land use while it was fighting to get the land back from UD Ministry, which had reclaimed it from them about two years back. Now, the aviation ministry is taking up the issue with UD ministry to have the land use restored to the airport on the ground the place actively serves VVIP chopper and small aircraft. Once the land use is restored, then it can legitimately use it as per its requirement.
 The "recreational use" shocker became known to the aviation ministry when it was forced to change the proposed location of the new Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) building. The new HQ was first supposed to be built across the road from Safdarjung Airport on a vacant plot but then it was found this area came in Lutyens' Bungalow Zone and getting permission for such a building was very difficult. The authorities then decided to have the new HQ building come up inside the Safdarjung Airport complex. When the aviation ministry was proceeding on this plan and fighting to get the land reclaimed from UD ministry, it realized that the land use had been changed. "We have written to the UD ministry that this is an active airport used by the top VVIPs like President and PM. The land use can't be changed like that," said a senior official. The fight for this prime airport plot has been going on for years. Over a year ago, the UD ministry has 'resumed' (taken back) 190 acres of the airport complex from the aviation ministry where construction work on various projects was going on. It had asked Airports Authority of India (AAI) to vacate those areas and hand over possession. Land and development office (L&amp;DO;) had asked AAI, which is in the possession of this property, to immediately stop all construction there like the extension wing of the aviation ministry headquarters, Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan. On its part, the aviation ministry pointed out that ministry of home affairs in 2001 (post 9/11) decided to use the airport as the emergency getaway for the President and the PM. Ministry sources point out that almost 80 to 90 chopper movement take place here every month. Also, some small aircraft used by state chief ministers like those of Punjab and Haryana use this airport.
FEATURED ARTICLES7 Day flat belly diet plan5 Best positions to get pregnant fast10 Tips for guaranteed weight lossMore:10 Tips for guaranteed weight loss12 Indian foods that cut fatHow to lose weight without dietingGovt enhances pensions of retired soldiers, 'one-rank, one-pension' still distantGo online to get Aadhar cardsUnion Budget 2012-13: Income tax exemption limit raised to Rs 2 lakh
    RELATED ARTICLESTussle over Safdarjung AirportApril 6, 2010Safdarjung airport flies into historyApril 5, 2003Safdarjung airport in new avatarOctober 12, 2003IN-DEPTH COVERAGECivil AviationAviation MinistrySafdarjung AirportTHE TIMES OF INDIA© 2013 Bennett, Coleman &amp; Co. Ltd. All rights reservedIndex by Keyword|Index by Datewww.timesofindia.comFeedback|Privacy Policy|Terms of Use|Advertise with us
