                go how'd it so
                            I do not know how the HELL my brain managed to read "carbs" as "catboy", but I guess this is my reality now
                        Anonymous
                        it is.
                                        Posted 6 hours ago
                                4 notes 
                            Tagged: accept it, snswrs, Anonymous, .
                            i too am weak to anime boys. genshin has been mentioned so many times on my dash and in friend groups that I had to try it. i think im almost 72 hours straight in from this week alone.
                        Anonymous
                        SJDFSD yeah i feel that
                                        Posted 6 hours ago
                                6 notes 
                            Tagged: the gacha is of the devil but otherwise im havin fun, snswrs, Anonymous, .
                            carbs, or carbohydrates, are stuff like potatos/chips, rice, pasta, cereal, bread, grain. they dont have much nutritional value on their own, they break down into sugar when theyre eaten (so people eat them to get energy boosts)
                        Anonymous
                        ahh i see now
                                        Posted 6 hours ago
                                5 notes 
                            Tagged: snswrs, thank u, Anonymous, .
                            Carb is just short for carbohydrate.
                        jellypumpkin
                        and u get them from bread
                                        Posted 13 hours ago
                                5 notes 
                            Tagged: if i could id hire a nutritionist for me, like id dedicate time to learning this properly but no ones listing what gives me what and what combos are best to eat, snswrs, jellypumpkin, .
                            oh my god you drew kaeya weve come full circle. officially everyone i know knows genshin (good taste also)
                        yobirinn
                        ppl kept talking about it and since its free…. and my pc plays it.. why not. im in.also  i am not immune to gorgeous anime men
                                        Posted 13 hours ago
                                4 notes 
                            Tagged: this is no surprise, snswrs, yobirinn, .
                            I love how everyone saw Kaeya existing and immediately went 👀👀👀 Like... everybody, without fail. He just stood there and stole everyone’s hearts somehow. He is the luigi that won
                        supermaronda64
                        hes the only dude in my crew like what else am i sposed to do
                                        Posted 13 hours ago
                                7 notes 
                            Tagged: snswrs, supermaronda64, .
                        An incomplete list of tropes that make me go absolutely feral
                        jackthebard:- The fact that some characters, hero or villain, have performed specific actions so often that when someone mentions that action, the character has to say “can you be more specific.”- Large, boisterous, incredibly friendly Russians- The dope slap. Just smacking someone upside the head as a way of telling someone that they were being an idiot- When the morally ambiguous character leaves just before the final throwdown only to painfully admit that yes, they do care about their friends, then turn around and go back to help save the day- Parents that are so obviously and healthily in love with each other that it has the high potential to embarrass their children- When the authorities have the various members of the crew in an interrogation room and it cuts between the different interrogations to the crew either giving wildly different accounts of the same story or finishing each other’s sentences/answering each other’s questions- When a character has every right to be frustrated at something physical and appears to be walking away calmly only to lose their cool a second later and grab a sledgehammer or smth- Incredibly grandiose/unlikely threats. IE: “I’m going to play hopscotch in your chest cavity” or “I’m going to carve your heart out with a spoon.” Bonus points if the character that makes them follows through or makes a reference to them later on.- Someone naming their weapon. Bonus points for naming it after a loved one or a lost love.- The relationship between a pure force of unmitigated chaos and the one person that can (sometimes) keep them under control.- Brick jokes. Like someone drops a line in Season 2, episode 3, only to have it referenced in Season 7, episode 9. The longer the brick is in the air, the better.- Weaknesses that are really lame- When a character has something that happens to them that removes all sense of a filter, and they start saying what’s *really* on their mind.- Ambiguously worded questions. No matter how you answer, it’s going to lead to more humor.- Communication errors for the sake of comedy, just like, in general- Slipping innuendos into kids’ movies or shows- The whole master/loyal assistant dynamic. Bonus points if there’s mutual pining or a secret relationship going on behind the scenes
                                        Reblogged 13 hours ago from yondamoegi (Originally from jackthebard)
                                2,993 notes 
                                Source:
                                jackthebard
                        iplaytolosebitch:
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from hoshi-kitsune (Originally from iplaytolosebitch)
                                41,429 notes 
                            Tagged: i dont know what a carb is and im too afraid to ask, .
                                Source:
                                iplaytolosebitch
                        benrylover:the venus girdle jellyfish is also incredible
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from hoshi-kitsune (Originally from greenshrumbo)
                                5,820 notes 
                                Source:
                                greenshrumbo
                        thephilosophersapprentice:mobius-ofc:Modern day Sysiphusthe best part is at the end when you can hear the dispenser go again
                                        Reblogged 14 hours ago from friendraichu (Originally from ampervadasz)
                                14,444 notes 
                                Source:
                                ampervadasz
                    Next page →
                hi i post my art and reblog things here (just)Art Blogselfship blog#all art#drawings#doodlesKo-fi
twitter: @manlysparkle
                    ask a thing
                    submit a thing
                     My blog
                     All of Tumblr
                Follow on Tumblr
                        RSS feed
                        Random
                        Archive
                        Mobile
            © 2011–2020 Powered by Tumblr
