      menu
          Google Workspace Technical Support Services Guidelines
              The following technical support services guidelines ("Guidelines")
              apply to support services for your use of "Google Workspace
              Services", except for the services and editions noted below that are
              excluded from coverage. Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meaning set
              forth in the agreement that governs your use of Google Workspace Services
              ("Agreement"). For clarity, Google does not offer TSS for Chrome
              Sync Services in G Suite for Education or for any of the services set forth at the
              following URL: https://www.google.com/support/a/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=181865.
                  Support Request Submission
                    Customer Efforts to Fix Errors. Prior to making a Request to
                    Google, Customer will use reasonable efforts to resolve issues, to fix any
                    error, bug, malfunction or network connectivity defect without escalation to
                    Google. Thereafter, Customer Contact may submit a Request for technical support
                    as specified at https://support.google.com/a/answer/1047213?hl=en or as such URL
                    may be updated by Google.
                    Characterization of Requests. Customer will designate priority
                    upon submission of Requests. Upon receiving a Request from a Customer Contact,
                    Google will determine whether the Request is a "Service Unusable," "Standard
                    Request" or a "Feature Request" (as defined in Section 6 (Definitions)). Any
                    such determination made by Google is final and binding on Customer. Google
                    reserves the right to change Customer's Priority designation if Google believes
                    that Customer's designation is incorrect and will inform Customer of any such
                    change in its response to the support Request. Customer may appeal any such
                    reclassification to Google's Support management for review through any
                    available support channel.
                    Procedures for Acknowledgement and Resolution of Requests.
                    When making a Request, Customer will provide requested diagnostic information
                    including but not limited to: (i) describing the problem, the configuration,
                    and Customer's network; (ii) providing relevant data; and (iii) answering
                    questions and assisting Google Support Personnel as appropriate.
                    Request Acknowledgement. Google may respond to a Request by
                    acknowledging receipt of the Request. Customer acknowledges and understands
                    that Google may be unable to provide answers to, or resolve all, Requests.
                    Feature Requests. If Google deems a Request as a Feature
                    Request, Google will log such Request for consideration to add to a future
                    update or release of the Services and will consider the matter closed. Google
                    is under no obligation to respond to or resolve any Feature Request or to
                    include any such Feature Request in any future update or release.
                  Accessing Support
                    Google Help Center. Customer's End Users of the Services may
                    access the Google Help Center at https://support.google.com/a/ or such URL as
                    Google may provide. Customer is responsible for responding to any questions and
                    complaints by End Users or other third parties relating to Customer's or its
                    End Users' use of the Services, with such support services to be provided at
                    Customer's own expense.
                    Customer PIN. Customer is required to provide a current
                    Customer PIN when making a Request. Customer will obtain such Customer PIN in
                    the Admin Console in order to access and receive support for the Services from
                    Google. If Customer is unable to provide the current Customer PIN when
                    prompted, Customer will only be able to access the Google Help Center and post
                    a question to its online help forum, until such time as the Customer PIN is
                    restored. The Customer PIN may be updated periodically and is only available in
                    the Admin Console.
                  Chrome Support
                    Availability of Support. In addition to Requests related to
                    the Services, Google will also respond to Requests related to Chrome as set
                    forth in these Guidelines. Responses will be in English language only.
                    Supported Issue Types. Google Support Personnel will respond
                    to Requests related to Chrome installation, Chrome Core Functionality, Chrome’s
                    security, administrative policies, and Chrome’s interoperability with Services
                    on Supported Platforms as set forth in these Guidelines. Google may choose not
                    to respond to Requests for other Chrome related technical issues, such as but
                    not limited to, rendering problems for specific web pages, technical issues
                    related to the underlying operating system, device driver or printer problems.
                    If Google makes a code change to resolve a technical issue, the code change is
                    released in an upcoming release and will not be ported back to an earlier
                    version of Chrome.
                  Support Levels
                    Generally. As part of Customer's order of Google Workspace
                    Services, Google will provide Basic TSS to Customer. Customer may order
                    additional TSS for an additional fee.
                    Basic Support. Customer will receive the following:
                      Automatic product upgrades of the Services
                      Maintenance updates of the Services
                      Online self help and training for End Users and Administrators designed
                      to assist Customer with implementation and use of the Services
                      Ability to submit a support Request
                      Status Dashboard and support portal providing real-time publicly
                      available status information for the Services
                    Fee Commitments. Some TSS require a 1-year fee commitment.
                    When Customer enrolls in such TSS, any applicable Fees will be pro-rated for
                    that month and then continue to apply for each month in the 1-year commitment
                    period.
                    Support Hours and Target Initial Response Times.
                      Google will provide acess to Google Help Center support for Customer on a
                      24 x 7 basis.
                      Target Initial Response Times.
                                Target Initial Response Times during the Hours of Operation
                                Priority
                                Google WorkSpace Standard Support
                                Enhanced Support
                                Premium Support
                                P1
                                4 hours 24x7
                                1 hour 24x7
                                15 minutes 24x7
                                P2
                                8 hours
                                4 hours 24x7
                                2 Hours 24x7
                                P3
                                24 hours
                                8 hours
                                4 hours 24x7
                                P4
                                24 hours
                                8 hours
                                8 hours
                        Enhanced Support. Enhanced Support will be provided in
                        English language (24x7) and, notwithstanding Section 5.2 (Language), in
                        Japanese language (8x5) during Business Hours.
                        Premium Support.
                        Premium Support will be provided in English language (24x7) and,
                        notwithstanding Section 5.2 (Language), in Japanese language during
                        Business Hours.
                        As part of the Premium Support offering, Customer will receive access
                        to a named Technical Account Manager for 1 day per week to (a) assist with
                        Customer in developing a strategy with respect to the Services, (b) provide
                        best practice advice regarding implementation and use of the Services, and
                        (c) manage technical support escalations and coordinate with Google subject
                        matter experts to address technical inquiries related to the Services.
                        Additional access to Technical Account Management may be purchased, subject
                        to additional fees and terms. Please contact your account team for pricing
                        details.
                        Legacy Standard Support. Notwithstanding any other term of
                        Section 4 (Support Levels), the following terms will apply to customers
                        enrolled in Standard Support prior to October 6, 2020: P1 Priority support
                        Requests are responded to with a target initial response time of one hour
                        and are responded to 24 x 7; and P2, P3, and P4 Priority support Requests
                        are responded to with an initial target response time of 1 business day or
                        less.
                  General Provisions
                    Maintenance. To ensure optimal performance of the Services,
                    Google performs periodic Maintenance. In most cases, Maintenance will have
                    limited or no negative impact on the availability and functionality of the
                    Services. If Google expects planned Maintenance to negatively affect the
                    availability or functionality of the Services, Google will use commercially
                    reasonable efforts to provide at least seven days advance notice of the
                    Maintenance. In addition, Google may perform emergency unscheduled Maintenance
                    at any time. If Google expects such emergency unscheduled Maintenance to
                    negatively affect the availability or functionality of the Services, Google
                    will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide advance notice of such
                    Maintenance. Maintenance notices will be provided via the Google Workspace
                    Dashboard, Admin Console and/or support portal. In addition, Customers who
                    subscribe to Maintenance notices may also be able to receive email and/or RSS
                    Feed notifications of Maintenance.
                    Language. All support provided by Google Support Personnel
                    pursuant to these Guidelines will be provided in English language, or during
                    listed hours in one of the additional languages documented in these Guidelines
                    or at https://support.google.com/a/table/3247295 or such other
                    URL as Google may provide. Support outside of these hours can be obtained via
                    English language support channels.
                    Term of Support. Google will only provide the support services
                    described in these Guidelines during the term of the Agreement and will have no
                    obligation to provide any support services to Customer after the expiration or
                    termination of such Agreement.
                    Support Data Processing Activities. Google collects and
                    processes Support Data for the purpose of providing the support services
                    described in these Guidelines and maintaining the Services.
                    On-site Support. Google may, at its discretion and upon
                    approval from Customer, send Google Support Personnel on-site in response to an
                    issue that cannot be resolved remotely. Google Support Personnel performing
                    support at Customer's facilities will comply with Customer's reasonable onsite
                    policies and procedures made known to Google in writing in advance.
                  Definitions
                  For the purpose of these Guidelines, the capitalized terms below will have the
                  following meanings:
                    "Business Hours" means business hours in Japan, namely, 09:00
                    to 17:00 on Monday to Friday Japan Standard Time.
                    "Chrome" means the Chrome web browser as released by Google
                    for Supported Platforms and available for download at the URL http://www.google.com/chrome/ or the MSI installer provided at the
                    URL https://www.google.com/chrome/business/ or at another URL that
                    Google may provide.
                    "Chrome Core Functionality" means the features and
                    functionality in the latest released Chrome browser version, excluding Google
                    Chrome extensions, Google Play, and Google Cloud Print.
                    "Customer Contacts" means Administrators designated in the
                    Admin Console.
                    "Feature Request" means a Request by a Customer Contact to
                    incorporate a new feature or enhance an existing feature of the Services that
                    is currently not available as part of the existing Services.
                    "Google Support Personnel" means the Google representatives
                    responsible for handling technical support requests.
                    "Hours of Operation" means the hours listed at https://support.google.com/a/table/3247295 for each country except
                    for holidays in local time for each region as documented in the Admin Console.
                    "Maintenance" means maintenance work that is performed on
                    hardware or software delivering the Services.
                    "Priority" means the level of impact a Request is having on
                    Customer's operations and is used to establish target response times.
                    Definitions of available priority levels can be found on our help center:
                    https://support.google.com/a/answer/1047213
                    "Request" means a request from Customer to Google Support
                    Personnel for technical support to resolve a question or problem report
                    regarding the Services.
                    "Service Unusable" means a production issue that prevents more than one
                    of the Customer’s End Users from access to, or use of, the Services,
                    or where Customer's network is not receiving any inbound email (and/or sending
                    outbound email) from the Services. Customer must identify a Request as Service
                    Unusable by designating it as a P1 Priority support Request.
                    "Standard Request" means a Request made by Customer to Google
                    that is not a Service Unusable Request or Feature Request.
                    "Support Data" means account details and the information that
                    Customer provides to Google for the purpose of obtaining the support services
                    described in these Guidelines, including requests for support and the details
                    provided to Google about the specific support issue.
                    "Supported Platform" as listed at https://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?answer=2763059
                    means an operating system and version for which i) Chrome is released by Google
                    and ii) support under these Guidelines is provided. Google may choose not to
                    respond to issues with preview versions of Chrome (also known as beta, dev, and
                    canary) or preview features. Chrome OS is not a Supported Platform under these
                    Guidelines; dedicated Google technical support and hardware service for Chrome
                    OS is available under a separate agreement. For clarity, Chrome Frame is a
                    separate product not covered under these Guidelines.
