                Speaker of Lies
                        times-chu:petermorwood:surprisedentistry:surprisedentistry:surprisedentistry:literally nothing is funnier than just living your life with a cat in a sweater vest. constantly feels like he’s about to offer to do my taxesi was trying to finish this post while he sat on the bar stool next to mine beeping at me for attention, and when the attention didn’t come quickly enough he put his paws on my shoulder and slapped me in the facewhich is, again, infinitely funnier when your cat is wearing a sweatervestim being bullied by the world’s smallest accountantThis post needs illustrations, and it didn’t take long to find some; most were just sweater-vests, but this one definitely has a “world’s smallest accountant” feel.This is that bitch from Lackadaisy Cats.
                                        Reblogged 29 minutes ago from times-chu (Originally from surprisedentistry)
                                100,937 notes 
                                Source:
                                surprisedentistry
                        dogelectorate:icantwritegood:icantwritegood:the best thing in the entire goddamn world is the fact that human beings have hands perfectly capable of giving amazing scritches and there are hundreds of animals out there who just love being scritchedlike this is it . this is what it’s all aboutthis is our purpose
                                        Reblogged 30 minutes ago from times-chu (Originally from icantwritegood)
                                86,355 notes 
                                Source:
                                icantwritegood
                        times-chu:hoina-hysteria:This is the funniest fucking thing imagine losing to your own car in a popularity pollYour wrecked car.
                                        Reblogged 35 minutes ago from times-chu (Originally from hoina-hysteria)
                                3,716 notes 
                                Source:
                                hoina-hysteria
                        bananahomo:killjah:we have a guy like this in glasgow, Scotland, he’s called crow guy and the murder of crows follows him everywhere, here he is sitting down, I don’t know if the dog is his I think they just like sitting there with him bananahomo:it doesn’t matter. you’ll NEVER have a murder of crows circling ominously over you while you wear a slutty black outfit. idiot.everyone wants what he has
                                        Reblogged 45 minutes ago from times-chu (Originally from bananahomo)
                                1,925 notes 
                                Source:
                                bananahomo
                        times-chu:coaltar-of-the-deepers:blu-iv:oddflex:monkey secretsi love how casual this isi can’t express how much i love this videoThe monkey’s wearing pants.
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from times-chu (Originally from oddflex)
                                67,506 notes 
                                Source:
                                oddflex
                        sheherzog:filthybonnet:momo-de-avis:momo-de-avis:I fucking hate James Tissot’s paintings because in ALL OF THEM there is ALWAYS someone staring right at you, but it’s not always immediately visible. You just feel watched by this mf. Sometimes the little shit is right there at the centre, but others the bastard is just gazing from the distance, it is CREEPY, my guysSTOP STARING AT ME, THIS IS DISCONCERTING AS FUCK
I think this is hilarious. We’ve been caught.
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from times-chu (Originally from momo-de-avis)
                                120,254 notes 
                                Source:
                                momo-de-avis
                        fuckoffantitrash:I’d like to remind fandom of this once again today
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from times-chu (Originally from fuckoffantitrash)
                                37,365 notes 
                                Source:
                                fuckoffantitrash
                        ode-to-rab:dnald:dnald:sesame street gets exponentially funnier as you age. god i love it
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from shinybastiodon (Originally from dnald)
                                288,985 notes 
                                Source:
                                dnald
                        transcribed-described:snootyfoxfashion:Mystical Woodland Animal Art Prints by RivuletPaperShopx / x / x / x / xx / x / x / x / x[ID: watercolor art of animals drawn as characters in a medieval fantasy.  1. A red squirrel as a bard. It sits on a branch with its eyes closed as it plays a lute. It is wearing a pointy hat that has a red feather in it and is chewing on a piece of wheat.2. A green toad as a magician. It sits on a plant-covered rock. In its right hand it holds a glowing wand.3. A harvest mouse trying to pull a sword stuck in a stone. Both of its hands are on the hilt of the sword and one of its foot is planted on the rock. It is wearing a dark green cape. 4. A little bunny as a warrior. It is standing up and holding a double-sided ax.5. A fire belly newt, a newt that is black with a bright red belly, as a sorcerer. In one arm it is holding several scrolls and in the other hand a staff with a white orb at the top.6. A hedgehog as a warrior. In one hand it is holding a sword and in the other it is holding a wooden shield with a white X painted on it.7. A mouse as an archer. It has a quiver of arrows on its back and is holding a drawn bow and arrow.8. A possum as a pirate wearing an eye patch. In its right hand it holds a curved sword. 9. A chipmunk as a wizard, wearing a floppy, pointy hat. In one hand it holds a vial and in the other a staff with a sunflower seed at the top.10. A chickadee perched on a rock with a branch growing out of the rock. At the end of the branch is a lit acorn lantern. The chickadee is smoking a pipe. /end ID] 
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from accordionsrule (Originally from snootyfoxfashion)
                                107,664 notes 
                                Source:
                                snootyfoxfashion
                        n0nb1narydemon:elvenferretots:I miss Dungeons and Dragons just a little bit…This is the funniest thing I’ve ever seen in my life and also I’m mindblown that you taught him to roll a dice.
                                        Reblogged 1 hour ago from havoc-engine (Originally from elvenferretots)
                                46,161 notes 
                                Source:
                                elvenferretots
                    Next page →
                Ben Ahrendt.  College Student.  Code Name: Panahinuva.  Supervillain name: Raleigh.
Avid TCG player and creator, decent writer.
Minnesota/Oberlin.
Final word: Come at me bro.
                    Ask me anything
                     My blog
                     All of Tumblr
                Follow on Tumblr
                    Latest Tweets
                        Following
                        RSS feed
                        Random
                        Archive
                        Mobile
            © 2010–2020 Powered by Tumblr
