			we make products that run on the internet 
			apps, websites, emails, themes, social...
						menu
							close window
          Terms of use statement for Arnie
          Acceptance of these terms 
            Please read these terms and conditions carefully: if you do not agree to all of the following terms and conditions for use of this website, please leave this website immediately. 
            The use of these World Wide Web pages of Arnie (referred to as "we" / "our" / "us") is subject to the terms and conditions set out below. 
            As a user of this website (referred to as "you" / "your"), your use will be deemed to constitute your acceptance of these terms and conditions. 
            Changes
            These Website Terms of Use contain the entire understanding between you and us in relation to your use of our website and its content. We reserve the right at our sole discretion to modify, alter or otherwise update these terms and conditions and/or our web pages at any time without notifying you and you agree to be bound by any such modifications, alterations or updates. You should check this website from time to time to review the then current version of these Website Terms of Use.
            Other important legal information
            For information about how we process your personal data, please read our privacy statement.
            Permitted use of this website
            Licence
            The copyright in material on these web pages and the database right in this website is either owned by or licensed to us and is protected by the laws of the United Kingdom, international treaties and all other applicable intellectual property laws. 
            You are permitted to retrieve and display content from this website on the device from which you initially accessed or downloaded it and you may print a single copy of individual pages on paper, solely for your personal non-commercial use. 
            Restriction of use 
            Our rights
            Any unauthorised downloading, retransmission, or other copying or modification of any of the contents of any of these web pages may be in breach of statutory or common law rights which could be the subject of legal action. 
            Republishing
            You may not republish any of the content of this website in any manner without our prior written consent. Requests to republish, redistribute or syndicate content should be addressed to .
            Editing
            You may not:
            Remove any news source identification, copyright notices, trade mark notices, or other notices or proprietary restrictions from any of the material or information contained in these web pages
            Use any graphics from this website separately from accompanying text
            Modify documents or related graphics on this website (or reproductions in other media of such documents or related graphics) in any way
            E-mail
            You agree not to send unsolicited e-mails for the purposes of advertising or market research to the e-mail addresses provided on this website. 
            Trademarks
            Third party trade marks
            All other company and product names together with all other third party devices, logos, icons, graphics or designs as may be referred to on the pages of this website from time to time, are the trade marks of their respective owners and are exhibited only in such a manner as is intended to be for the benefit of such trade mark owners: we intend no infringement of such trade marks. 
            No endorsement
            The appearance or absence of products, services, companies, organisations, or other such content on this website does not imply any endorsement or non-endorsement by us. 
            Liability
            Warning
            This section contains provisions which restrict the extent to which we are liable to you for any loss you may suffer in connection with your use of this website. 
            By using this website you also agree that you will be liable for any loss we (or certain people connected with us) suffer as a result of breach of these Website Terms of Use by you or by certain people connected with you.
            Please read the following section carefully and if you do not agree to these conditions, please leave this website immediately. 
            Content
            The information, materials and functions contained in this website (including text, graphics, links or other items) are provided on an "as is" basis without any warranties of any kind and may be out of date or may otherwise contain errors or omissions. The information is for general purposes and guidance only and does not purport to constitute professional advice. 
            Although acceptance of advertisements on our website for goods or services provided by third parties is subject to our discretion, we do not accept liability in respect of any such advertisements. 
            Hyperlinks
            The provision by us of a link to another website does not constitute any authorisation by us to you to access materials held at that location, nor is it evidence of any endorsement by us of the material held there. 
            Our liability
            We do not exclude liability (if any) to you for personal injury or death resulting from our negligence, for fraud or for any matter which it would be illegal to exclude or to attempt to exclude. 
            To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law we exclude all other liability and responsibility for any amount or kind of loss or damage that may result to you or to a third party in connection with: 
            The use, inability to use or the results of use of this website, any website's linked to this website or the material on such website's
            This website (or any website's linked to this website) in any other way.
            For the avoidance of doubt, this exclusion of liability extends to (but is not limited to) loss or damage due to:
            Errors or omissions from information, materials or functions in or of this  website (or any website's linked to this website)
            Business interruption resulting from the use or inaccessibility of this website (or any website's linked to this website)
            Collaboration with any third party as a result of using our website (we will not in any way be construed as a party to such collaboration, nor shall we be liable in any way for the dealings you may have with that third party)
            Viruses, worms, trojans or other hostile computer programs that may infect your computer equipment, software, data or other property on account of your access to, use of, or browsing this website or your downloading of any material from this website (or any website's linked to this website)
            Computer failure resulting for any reason from the use of this website (or any website's linked to this website)
            Breach of any conditions implied by law (including without limitation any conditions of satisfactory quality, fitness for purpose and the use of reasonable care and skill) which but for these Website Terms of Use might have effect in relation to this website
            Your liability
            You agree that you shall be liable for any foreseeable and reasonable costs incurred by us in respect of any and all demands, liabilities, losses, costs and claims (including reasonable legal fees incurred in defending any action or otherwise) sustained or incurred by us, our agents, suppliers, customers, officers, or employees, and arising as a direct result of breach by you of these Website Terms of Use. 
            General
            Headings
            The headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of these Website Terms of Use. 
            Interpretation
            In these Website Terms of Use, unless the context otherwise requires:
            The singular shall include the plural and vice versa
            References to persons shall include bodies corporate, unincorporated associations and partnerships
            Words importing the whole shall be treated as including a reference to any part thereof
            Waiver
            Any waiver by either you or us of a breach of any provision of these Website Terms of Use shall not be considered as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other provision of these Website Terms of Use. 
            Our relationship with you
            You and we are, with respect to one another, independent parties. Nothing in these Website Terms of Use is intended to nor shall create any partnership, joint venture or agency. 
            Transfer of rights / obligations
            We shall be entitled to transfer, sub-licence and/or assign any of our rights and/or obligations under these Website Terms of Use. This will not affect your rights under these Website Terms of Use. 
            You may not transfer, sub-licence or assign any of your rights or obligations under these Website Terms of Use without our written consent.
            Severability
            Every provision of these Website Terms of Use shall be construed separately, applying and surviving even if for any reason any of these provisions is held inapplicable or unenforceable in any circumstances.
            Law &amp; jurisdiction
            These Website Terms of Use shall be governed by and construed in accordance with United Kingdom law and you agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United Kingdom courts. You are responsible for compliance with any applicable laws of the country from which you access our website. 
            Contact
            If you have any queries about these Website Terms of Use, or any other aspect of our website, or you have any comments or complaints, you can contact us by emailing 
					© Copyright 2014 - Arnie  -  
					Terms of use - 
					Privacy - 
					Cookies
