			we make products that run on the internet 
			apps, websites, emails, themes, social...
						menu
							close window
          Cookies
          We use cookies in the essential operation of our site
            Essential cookies
            We might collect and use information about your computer (such as your IP address, operating system and browser type) for system administration, keeping a session open with the server and reporting (including, where relevant, reporting aggregate information to third parties such as Google). This information that we collect is statistical data about your browsing history but does not identify any individual. For the same reasons, we may collect information about your general internet usage by using a cookie file which is stored on the hard drive of your computer. Cookies contain information that is transferred to your computer's hard drive. They help us to improve our site and to deliver a better and more personalised service.
            Site helper cookies
            Some of the cookies we use are to enable essential parts of our site to operate and have already been set. For example, we use essential cookies to remember your preferences.  We also use cookies in the use of site helpers like those used in our social network feeds and to facilitate the process of forwarding information to your own social networks. 
            Google Analytics Cookies
            We also use cookies on our site for Google Analytics. Google Analytics is a web analytics tool that helps website owners understand how visitors engage with their website. Google Analytics customers can view a variety of reports about how visitors interact with their website so that they can improve it. Like many services, Google Analytics uses first-party cookies to track visitor interactions as in our case, where they are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We then use the information to compile reports and to help us improve our site. Google Analytics collects information anonymously. It reports website trends without identifying individual visitors.
            Refusing or Deleting Cookies
            You may refuse or delete cookies by activating the setting on your browser which allows you to refuse or delete the setting of cookies. You may opt out of Google Analytics without affecting how you visit our site for more information on opting out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites you use, visit this Google page.
					© Copyright 2014 - Arnie  -  
					Terms of use - 
					Privacy - 
					Cookies
