                                 British Broadcasting CorporationHome    Accessibility links Skip to content  Skip to local navigation  Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search  Accessibility Help              
Home
  Accessibility
  Mobile
  BBC iPlayer
Our approach to external linking
How links are chosen for BBC Online
BBC Online includes links to both internal (BBC) and external (non-BBC) websites. We select links that are editorially relevant to the content they are linking from and are suitable for the likely audience.
	These links are included for a number of reasons, including:
	for further relevant information or other key source material
		for background information
		for useful practical information
		for entertainment or enjoyment
		for further informed comment
	We do not link to external sites in return for cash, services or any other consideration in kind.
	We link to sites purely on editorial merit. These will most often be free to access, but users may sometimes be asked to register or subscribe before viewing content.
	The BBC homepage does not accept submissions or requests. The homepage team selects links and evaluates websites on the basis of editorial relevance. 
	Links to external websites
	External links are selected and reviewed when the page is published. However, the BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites. This is because: 
	the BBC does not produce them or maintain/update them
		the BBC cannot change them
		they can be changed without the BBC's knowledge or agreement.
	Some of our external links may be to websites which also offer commercial services, such as online purchases.
	The inclusion of a link to an external website from bbc.co.uk should not be understood to be an endorsement of that website or the site's owners (or their products/services).
	Links to user generated material
	Some of the content we link to on both BBC sites and external ones is generated by members of the public (messageboards and photo-sharing sites for example). The views expressed are those of the public and unless specifically stated are not those of the BBC. If you consider this content to be in breach of the house rules as indicated on the website, please alert the moderators or site owners on the sites where the material appears. 
	Sign posts and content information
	Increasingly, bbc.co.uk is making more video and audio content available online (via a video or radio player). The BBC online guidelines state:
	Any material on the BBC homepage must be suitable for a general audience including children.
		The first click from the BBC homepage should not normally lead straight to a page which includes material which is unsuitable for a general audience.
	Where appropriate, users are informed of the nature of the material they might expect to see or hear by clear labelling on destination pages and on the video or radio players.
		General links information:
		Editorial guidelines in full
			Links to external sites
                        BBC iD      BBC iD            Settings     Sign out                    Search term:     BBC navigation News  Sport Weather    iPlayer    TV  Radio More…        CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History Learning Music Science Earth Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites        You're using the Internet Explorer 6 browser to view the BBC website. Our site will work much better if you change to a more modern browser. It's free, quick and easy. Find out more about upgrading your browser here&hellip;        BBC links  Mobile site      Terms of Use       About the BBC    Privacy       Accessibility Help    Cookies        Contact the BBC     Parental Guidance        BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.      
