  home 
| contact us | site map      
 Panama (Republic of)History 
of Relations | Diplomatic Representation | Travel 
Info | Health Requirements | Climate Info 
| Currency Info | Trade Info | Visits 
and Meetings | Agreements | Interest Groups/ 
OrganisationsHistory of RelationsSouth 
Africa established full diplomatic relations with the Republic of Panama on 10 
January 1995. The Government of Panama opened an Embassy in Pretoria in August 
2000.Diplomatic RepresentationSouth 
African Representation in Panama
South Africa is not residentially represented 
in Panama. Please contact the South African Embassy 
in Lima, Peru.
H E Ms R N Rasmeni Ambassador Extraordinary 
and PlenipotentiaryNon-resident, accredited from Lima, Peru.
  South African Embassy
TIME 
DIFFERENCE WITH SA: 
-7 hours 
Panamanian Representation in South 
Africa
Vacant
   Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
For 
more information, please contact the Embassy of Panama in PretoriaTravel 
InfoVisa Requirements for South Africans 
For more information contact the South African 
Embassy in Lima, Peru.  Travel Advisory: Warning on illegal 
activities abroadSouth African citizens travelling abroad are strongly 
advised to take care not to become involved in activities which may be, or are, 
illegal in foreign countries. Please remember, once you leave South Africa, you 
are not protected by South African laws and constitutional rights. If you are 
arrested abroad, the South African Government cannot get you out of prison or 
demand your release. At most, your government can intercede with local authorities 
to try and ensure that your rights under the laws of the country in which you 
were arrested are fully observed. It can also attempt to ensure that you are treated 
humanely, i.e., according to those international agreements to which the country 
in which you have been arrested, has acceded.Please note that the South 
African Government views crimes - particularly those involving illegal drugs, 
mercenary activities, the traffic in humans or small arms or the abuse of women 
and children - in a most serious light. Health 
Requirements For further information go to Travelers' Health. 
Climate Info
For 
up-to-date weather information click here. 
Currency Info
The 
monetary unit is the Balboa (PAB).For 
current exchange rates click here.Visa 
Requirements for Panamanian citizens visiting South Africa 
For more 
information contact the Embassy of South Africa in 
Lima.State and Official Visits 
/ Bilateral MeetingsNo InformationBilateral 
Agreements
If you have any queries with regard to treaties please 
contact the Treaty Section at 012 351 0872/0726 or send an e-mail to: vanderwaltr@dirco.gov.za.
Trade 
Info
For current information on trade statistics between South Africa 
and Panama, visit the website of the Department 
of Trade, Industry and Competition of South Africa.
Interest 
Groups and InformationNo Information Quick Links:     Bilateral Relations 
 Africa 
Multilateral Relations  International 
Multilateral Relations   
Profiles  South African 
Representation Abroad  Foreign Representation 
Abroad  
Websites of SA Missions 
   Disclaimer | Contact Us | Home | Last Updated: 
 6 August, 2020 3:29 PM  This site is best viewed using 800 x 600 resolution with Internet 
Explorer 5.0, Netscape Communicator 4.5 or higher. © 2003 Department of Foreign 
Affairs, Republic of South Africa    
