          W
          ORKS
          on
          P
          SYCHOLOGY
          and
          R
          ELIGION
          John S. Uebersax  
          -->
Early Christianity and Reincarnation: Modern Misrepresentation of Quotes by 
Origen
John S. Uebersax PhD
Contents
Common misquotations of Origen:
     Mystery Quote 1
     Mystery Quote 2
     Mystery Quote 3
     Mystery Quote 4
     Mystery Quote 5
Mystery Quote 6 -->
Bibliography
For many years there has been an urban myth to the effect that "early 
Christianity taught reincarnation, but the doctrine was suppressed." When I 
first read this, years ago, I felt no need to question it; it didn't seem surprising 
that early Christians may have had unusual and incorrect beliefs.  After all, I 
reasoned, people were not very sophisticated then.
The myth has persisted and is now repeated on many websites, where I saw 
it recently. As I've learned a little more of early Church history, and, further, 
have more respect for the ancient mind, I now find the suggestion much less 
plausible, and decided to investigate the issue.  The results lead me to 
conclude that the allegation is false and to suggest it can be disproven to 
anyone who cares to consider the evidence.  
Both sides--i.e., the "pro-reincarnationists" and "non-reincarnationists"--have 
tended to oversimplify, and, when simple arguments are insufficient, to 
sometimes resort name-calling, ad hominem tactics (including, in the 
case of some reincarnationists, conspiracy theories), and other such 
fallacious reasoning.  It is much better to rely on scholarship in a matter like 
this. Such analysis is not especially short or simple, however; therefore the 
prudent course is to divide the problem into parts, and to tackle these one at 
a time.  
Here we address one component:  the allegation, frequently made by 
proponents of the reincarnationist view, that, in the works of the influential 
Church Father and catechist, Origen of Alexandria (185-254?), there are 
many quotations that imply a belief in reincarnation.  In this article we shall 
examine some of the main quotations (or misquotations) which have been 
presented.  It will be seen that these by no means support the claims of 
modern reincarnationists.  Further, we shall see that Origen did not hold 
beliefs consistent with the contemporary view of reincarnation.       
I wish to emphasize one procedural point--a positive one.  This might not 
need mention, except for the vitriolic nature that has frequently characterized 
this debate, as well as similar ones of a religious nature.  It is my belief that a 
topic like this is best pursued in a spirit of complete intellectual charity.  That 
is, one must not resort to cheap denigration or disparagement of ones 
opponents or their views. Even the word "opponent" requires qualification, 
as it tends to connote hostility and antagonism. Technically, an opponent is 
merely someone with an opposite point of view, and that is how I mean it.  
I'm not concerned with criticizing my "opponents" here, but rather with 
evaluating their statements.  "Speak evil of no man."  When one resorts to 
irrational, emotional or personal arguments, it's a often sign of defensiveness, 
misgivings about one's own position, or being too lazy or undisciplined to 
form a compelling reply. It in no way follows that because an opponent has 
said or written something hostile or disparaging, that one should respond in 
like kind. 
A second prefacing issue concerns the definition of reincarnation.  Much 
disagreement on this topic derives from failure to  adequately define and 
clarify terms. We should accordingly distinguish between three different 
meanings of the word, "reincarnation."  These might be called (1) the 
Pythagorean view; (2) the modern view; and (3) the multiple-Age or 
multi-Age view.  
It will help to consider the modern view first.  This is what most people are 
familiar with:  the idea that the soul of a person can reincarnate on earth as 
another person.  In short, it allows that you might have been Cleopatra or 
Julius Caesar in a previous lifetime; and, after this life, that you might come 
back as someone else.
What distinguishes this from the older, Pythagorean view is that the modern 
view usually assumes one can only incarnate as a human being. The view 
associated with Pythagoras (fl. 530 BC) and his school, however, allowed 
that incarnation as an animal was possible.  This view became increasingly 
unfashionable, it appears, around 2000 years ago, or perhaps a little earlier.  
Origen, as stated earlier, was an influential Church Father--the most 
influential, perhaps, up until St. Augustine.  He began his career in 
Alexandria, Egypt which, at the time, was a cosmopolitan melting pot 
brewing with religious and philosophical ideas--Christian, Greek, Roman, 
Jewish, Neoplatonist, Egyptian, even Buddhist and Brahmanist.   Now it so 
happens that in one of Origen's extremely numerous works, First 
Principles (in Latin called de Principiis and in Greek, its original 
language, Peri Archon), he speculatively addressed the possibility of 
a certain kind of reincarnation.  The view considered there, however, is much 
different than either the Pythagorean or modern views.  Origen described a 
model--as a technical possibility, pure conjecture and identified as such--in 
which the present universe as we know it is but one of many successive 
universes that are created and uncreated in a series of Ages or eras (aeons).  
By this view, a person's soul may inhabit a different body (allowing for a 
broad definition of  body) in successive Ages.  Further, the circumstances of 
ones "incarnation" from one Age to the next depend on ones actions in the 
previous life--the principle of karma, if you will.  Origen rejected, however, 
the idea that a person might be incarnated more than once in the present Age.  
In the other surviving works of Origen, the subject of multi-Age reincarnation 
is not mentioned.  Nor is it mentioned by later writers in connection with his 
other works.  We may well believe, then, that this was something unique to 
the extravagant and youthful, First Principles. 
Origen's view requires several remarks.  We again comment that First 
Principles was an extremely speculative work, something Origen 
repeatedly emphasized.  There is even some indication that it was published 
without his permission, having been presented in the form of lectures.  
Further, we may observe that, in some fundamental sense, the basic idea of a 
soul having different forms in different "stages" in the history of Creation, 
and that ones condition in one stage depends on ones previous actions, is, in 
itself, nothing unusual.  As much is assumed by the orthodox doctrines of 
the Last Judgment, the General Resurrection, and places of reward, 
punishment or purgation in the "next life."  
Further--though the doctrinal aspects of this idea are complex and the 
position of Christianity on the matter not completely clear--to suggest that the 
soul had some form of existence, if only momentary, before it's incarnation in 
the present body, is not intrinsically unreasonable or unusual.  Therefore what 
is really unique to the First Principles is the idea that there may be 
not just these three "stages" (some undefined "pre-existence", this present 
world, and the age to come) but a potentially infinite or near-infinite 
succession of Ages before and after this one.
We do not pursue the details of Origen's multi-Age reincarnation theory here.  
The very extravagance and tenuousness of the idea inherently limits its 
interest--at least as a matter of practical spirituality.  Who would presume to 
know or hold strong beliefs about what happens beyond this Age. Any such 
conjecture is by its nature so remote that we cannot have any strong 
convictions, and it is hardly the kind thing that lends itself to doctrine of any 
kind.  Further--and this may perhaps be the best response--beyond this 
present existence who can say which of even our most basic concepts or 
logical categories apply?  Time itself may have no meaning.  Origen's theory 
implies a kind of horizontal journey towards God through a succession of 
Ages, each fundamentally like this one.   But many spiritual and metaphysical 
models suggest the important journey is more like a vertical one through 
different, subtler levels or dimensions of "reality"; or inward, as in the interior 
castle of St Teresa of Avila. 
Another reason we need not pursue the details of Origen's multi-Age 
reincarnation theory is because there appears no dispute about this aspect of 
his ideas. Despite other controversies about Origen's works, nobody seems 
to deny that Origen presented this theory, or that he meant it as highly 
speculative. Therefore, if those who say "Origen believed and/or taught 
reincarnation" understand reincarnation here to be this multi-Age kind, there 
is no disagreement and matter is basically settled. We would be left only to 
quibble about the distinctions between writing a speculative work--something 
that amounts to philsophical "science fiction"-- and having or teaching a 
definite belief.
The problem, however, is that some modern reincarnationists do not present 
Origen's view in this way.  Rather, they make blanket statements to the effect 
that "Origen set forth the theory of reincarnation," and allow readers to 
interpret reincarnation here to be the ordinary modern view.  
Does it matter?
One might ask how much the distinction between the modern and multi-Age 
reincarnation views matters for the essence of this debate. A big difference, 
in fact.  First, multi-Age reincarnation is not consistent with the premise that 
people can recall memories of previous earthly lives. Such accounts, 
recorded in recent popular books, seem to hold a fascination for a certain 
segment of the American and European population, attract them to the idea 
of reincarnation, and distract or divert them from the important matters of 
Christianity and other traditional faiths.  Therefore we would certainly like to 
refute, if possible, the suggestion that anything Origen wrote may support 
these modern reincarnation ideas.
Second, an observant person will not deny that the modern reincarnation 
view does, for some individuals at least, invite a kind of spiritual and 
psychological laziness.  It can be an excuse to say, "well, I haven't 
accomplished much in this life, and probably won't, so I might as well just 
relax and wait for the next one. I'll just try to make a bit of progress, stay 
even, or not regress too far." This robs the current lifetime of an urgency, 
challenge and positive potential which is found in Christianity, Judaism and 
Islam. Even with the multi-Age reincarnation of First Principles, there is a 
General Resurrection and a Last Judgment at the end of this Age.  If there are 
Ages after this one, we cannot say even remotely what they might be like. 
Our thoughts and plans concern this one. 
This, then, is sufficient by way of introduction. Let us now proceed to 
specific passages attributed to Origen which are the subject of dispute. I call 
these "mystery quotes" because that term seems to fit, either because their 
true source is a mystery (i.e., they are not actually found in Origen's works), 
or because one must question how or why so incorrect an interpretation as 
has been given to them could be formulated. 
Mystery Quote 1
The soul has neither beginning nor end.  [They] come into this world 
strengthened by the victories or weakened by the defeats of their previous lives. 
      ~falsely attributed to Origen 
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
This quote is a good place to begin.  In December, 2005, a web search 
showed this quote or some minor variation to be on over 200 
websites in connection with early Christianity and reincarnation. I looked 
at scores of these, and in no case found a usable source for the quote.  In 
some cases, the source given was De Principiis, but without the book 
number (the work has four books), much less the chapter and paragraph.
Since an English translation of  First Principles  and Origen's other 
major works are online, it's simple matter to search them for words or 
phrases contained in the quote above.  I also read with special care all 
potentially relevant sections of  First Principles  and Origen's work, 
Against Celsus, which is the next most likely source, but could not 
find this passage or anything similar.
Based on this, I'm fairly confident in saying that this is not a direct quote of 
Origen. What it might be is a loose summary made by some modern author, 
and then blindly copied by others without qualification or explanation.  Some 
evidence suggests to me that the quote might have first appeared in the book, 
Reincarnation: An East-West Anthology, by Head and Cranston 
(1968).
This kind of apparently incorrect, and, in any case, inadequately documented 
quote is bad for many reasons, including these:
It is inconsiderate of readers, because it attempts to persuade them with false 
or exaggerated evidence.  It further does not allow readers to verify the 
evidence.
It makes refutation difficult or impossible.  One cannot evaluate whether the 
quote refers to reincarnation if one cannot determine and consult its context.
It means the person did not read the work quoted, either entirely or the 
particular section--if they had, they should be able to supply the source.
It also shows that people copy the quote without trying to otherwise verify its 
source.  In doing so, they show poor judgment, overvaluing the credibility of 
the source from which they copy it.
Such careless scholarship suggests those who make use such false or 
inadequate quotes are not especially desirous of having their facts checked,  
and that they lack sufficient motivation to track down sources.  Perhaps this 
means they are not convinced themselves of their own position concerning 
Origen, and are afraid to test it with facts.  I say this not in an accusing way, 
but only to acknowledge this common human tendency.
As for the substance of the quote, it is compatible with either the modern 
reincarnation view or the multi-Age view.  It could also be a simple statement 
of the view of pre-existing, bodiless souls which fall into bodies (once) in the 
present world.  The plural "lives" in the quote is ambiguous, and, further, is 
given as the singular, "life" on some of the websites consulted. 
Mystery Quote 2
Now for the second mystery quote.  First, the quote as it currently appears 
on various websites that promote the "early Christian reincarnation" position:
Bogus Quote
Is it not rational that souls should be introduced into bodies, in 
accordance with  their merits and previous deeds, and that those 
who have used their bodies in doing the utmost possible good should 
have a right to bodies endowed with qualities superior to the bodies 
of others?...
~falsely attributed to Origen
[ Example ]
Here is the actual passage as it appears in the works of Origen.
Actual Quote
Or is it not more in conformity with reason, that every soul, for 
certain mysterious reasons (I speak now according to the 
opinion of Pythagoras, and Plato, and Empedocles,  whom Celsus 
frequently names), is introduced into a body, and 
introduced according to its deserts and former actions? It is probable, 
therefore, that this soul also, which conferred more benefit 
by its residence in the flesh than that of many men (to avoid 
prejudice, I do not say "all"), stood in need of a body not only 
superior to others, but invested with all excellent qualities.
      ~ Origen, Against Celsus 1.32
[ Source ] 
[ Alt. source ]
Alt. source ]
-->
In the correct version above, underlining shows words absent from the 
version found on some reincarnation websites.  Their removal, one sees, 
completely changes its meaning.  Origen plainly states that he is talking about
not his own opinion here, but that of Pythagoras, Plato and Empedocles.
Further, a reading of the passage in its surrounding context shows that this 
section of the work is not concerned with reincarnation at all, but with 
addressing the circumstances of the birth of Jesus. It's part of a complex 
counteragrument against Celsus, who had written a defamatory critique of 
Christianity some decades before Origen's time.  Origen had been asked to 
refute the work, and this he did in the form of his book, Against 
Celsus  
(Latin: Contra Celsum ).
As a literary device, Celsus introduced a fictitious Jew who argued with 
Jesus.  At one point, the Jew accuses Jesus of having fabricated the story of 
the Virgin Birth (Origen, Against Celsus, 1.28).  The Jew then 
repeated a  rumor being circulated in the early centuries, that Jesus was really 
the illegitimate child of Mary and a Roman soldier. 
To this Origen suggests that human reason implies a certain justice, 
correspondence or appropriate matching of a person's nobility, as evidenced 
by their accomplishments, and the conditions of their birth.  Jesus, Origen 
argues, taught many, courageously overturned the doctrines of his day, and 
eventually even died for the benefit of others (ibid., 1.30).  
Concerning the last point, Origen draws the analogy to Greek and barbarian 
beliefs that a just man may lay down his life to remove "plagues, or 
barrenness, or tempests, or similar calamities" (ibid. , 1.31).
Then Origen confronts Celsus with these words:
And I will ask of them as Greeks, and particularly of Celsus, who either holds 
or not the sentiments of Plato, and at any rate quotes them, whether He who 
sends souls down into the bodies of men, degraded Him [Jesus] who was to 
dare such mighty acts, and to teach so many men, and to reform so many from 
the mass of wickedness in the world, to a birth more disgraceful than any 
other, and did not rather introduce Him into the world through a lawful 
marriage?
 [Origen, Against Celsus, 1.32]
and this passage immediately precedes our "mystery quote." 
Origen, then, is trying establish a basic principle of justice or 
appropriateness.  If the Pythagoreans have a concept of appropriateness 
implicit in their doctrine of transmigration, why shouldn't a similar principle 
apply here?  That is, it is no more unusual that Jesus, because of his superior 
nature, evidenced in his works, should incarnate in a special body or under 
special conditions, than that, in the system of Pythagoreans, past deeds 
should determine future bodies.  The point is not that the Pythagoreans are 
correct, but that if Celsus accepts this more general principle of 
appropriateness, then he should allow for the possibility of Jesus' miraculous 
birth.
With this example we again have the problem of someone originally posting 
or publishing a quote without a citation.  Then it's copied from website to 
website with nobody checking the source or reading the original material.  
Further, in this case, someone evidently originally edited the quote so as to 
completely change its meaning, without even including ellipses (…) to alert 
readers to the fact.  It would be unimaginable that this was intentional, but, at 
the least, it's careless and negligent to a degree one might consider 
irresponsible.
As a side note, in this same section of Against Celsus (1.32) Origen 
makes an interesting remark:
It was to be expected, indeed, that those who would not believe the 
miraculous birth of Jesus would invent some falsehood. And their not 
doing this in a credible manner, but (their) preserving the fact that it 
was not by Joseph that the Virgin conceived Jesus, rendered the 
falsehood very palpable to those who can understand and detect such 
inventions.
         [Origen, Against Celsus 1.32]
He is suggesting that the exaggerated and deprecatory nature of the argument 
should alert one that something is awry--at least for "those who can 
understand and detect such inventions."  In short, he's saying that Celsus, 
along with others, "doth protest too much" and we should be alert to what 
that implies.  Of whether the distorting of passages from patristic literature to 
support the idea of "early Christian reincarnationism" illustrates the same 
principle readers will form their own opinions.
Mystery Quote 3
Now we look at the third mystery quote.
Bogus Quote
      The soul, which is immaterial and invisible in its nature, exists in no
      material place without having a body suited to the nature of that place. 
      Accordingly, it at one time puts off one body, which was necessary before, 
      but  which is no longer adequate in its changed state, and it exchanges it 
      for a second 
      ~ falsely attributed to Origen, Against Celsus 
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
Actual Quote
Our teaching on the subject of the resurrection is not, as Celsus
imagines, derived from anything that we have heard on the doctrine 
of metempsychosis; but we know that the soul, which is immaterial 
and invisible in its nature, exists in no material place, without having a body
suited to the nature of that place. Accordingly, it at one time 
puts off one body which was necessary before, but which is no longer 
adequate in its changed state, and it exchanges it for a second; and at 
another time it assumes another in addition to the former, which is needed as 
a better covering, suited to the purer ethereal regions of heaven. When it comes into 
the world at birth, it casts off the integuments which it needed in the womb; and 
before doing this, it puts on another body suited for its life upon earth.
      ~ Origen, Against Celsus, 7.32 
[ Source ] 
[ Alt. source ]
Alt. source ]
--> 
As with the previous example, the omission of key phrases serves to 
completely change the meaning.  From the actual quote we can see that 
Origen is distinguishing between what he is about to say concerning Christian 
beliefs, and the doctrine of reincarnation (metempsychosis).
Origen begins Chapter 32 of Book 7 with:
Celsus next assails the doctrine of the resurrection, which is a high 
and difficult doctrine, and one which more than others requires a 
high and advanced degree of wisdom to set forth how worthy it is of 
God.
 [Origen, Against Celsus, 7.32] 
This establishes the context: Origen is defending the standard Christian idea 
of resurrection.  He mentions two transitions, the first relating to birth, and 
the second transition to a qualitatively different, more spiritual life after this 
one ("the pure ethereal reaches of heaven").  Nothing suggests transitions 
between multiple earthly lives. 
Origen's Positive Orthodoxy
Here is a good point to mention what can be thought of as Origen's 
positive orthodoxy.  By that I mean that Origen never sought to 
dispute or contradict any doctrine that was plainly established by the four 
gospels or the letters of St. Paul.  His speculations concern only matters that 
are not explicitly addressed by scripture. 
As it was a refutation of a popular attack by Celsus against Christian beliefs, 
Origen's work, written not by his own initiative, but by the request of his 
patron, Ambrosius, sought to explain the orthodox Christian beliefs of 
Origen's time.  
To the extent that the resurrection implies a view incompatible with 
Pythagorean or modern reincarnation, then Origen cannot accept, much less 
advocate (and especially not in an apologetic work) these latter views.
Mystery Quote 4
Now we look at the fourth mystery quote.
Questionable Quote
Every one, therefore, of the souls descending to the earth, is strictly   
following his merits, or according to the position which he formerly 
occupied, is destined to be returned to this world in a different country or 
among a different nation, or in a different sphere of existence on earth, or 
afflicted with infirmities of another kind, or mayhap to be the children of 
religious parents or of parents who are not religious: so that of course it may 
sometimes happen   that a Hebrew will be born among the Syrians, or an 
unfortunate Egyptian may be born in Judaea.
      ~ Origen (dubious translation), First Principles 
4.1.23
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
Example ] -->
Example ] -->
Actual Quote
Every one, accordingly, of those who descend to the earth is, according to his 
deserts, or agreeably to the position which he occupied there, ordained to be 
born in this world, in a different country, or among a different nation, or in a 
different mode of life, or surrounded by infirmities of a different kind, or to 
be descended from religious parents, or parents who are not religious; so that 
it may sometimes happen that an Israelite descends among the Scythians, and 
a poor Egyptian is brought down to Judea. 
~ Origen, First Principles 4.1.23
(from the Latin)
[ Source ]
"(7) Origen: De Principiis IV Cap. 3, 10, 26, 23. The Latin of Rufinus' 
translation is given as follows on p. 338 of Vol. 5 of Die Griechischen 
Christlichen Schriftsteller der Ersten Drei Jahrhunderte: Unusquisque ergo 
descendentium in terram pro meritis vel loco suo, quem ibi habuerat, 
dispensatur in hoc mundo in diversis veI locis vel gentibus vel 
conversationibus vel infirmitatibus nasci vel a religiosis ant certe minus piis 
parentibus generari, ita ut inveniat aliquando Israheliten in Scythas descendere 
et Aegyptium pauperem deduci ad Iudaeam."
from:
http://www.survivalafterdeath.org/books/ducasse/critical/20.htm#origen
This goes so far as to supply the Latin of Rufinus, as though to see the 
important meaning requires such detail, and ones time is well spent reminding 
oneself one doesn't know Latin well.  The greater meaning, made plain by 
context, is completely ignored.
As though to distract us (or himself) from the real issue here, the author of 
the second example goes so far as to supply the Latin version as well as the 
English, as though that could somehow .
This example shows how easily the meaning can be distorted with a quote 
taken out of context.  Even a casual reading of the paragraphs leading up to 
this passage make it plain that, despite appearances, the topic is not 
reincarnation at all.  The first half of Book 4 of First Principles, from 
which this quote is taken, is concerned with developing a method for 
scriptural interpretation, not metaphysics.  Origen begins Book 4 with this 
sentence:
But as it is not sufficient, in the discussion of matters of such 
importance, to entrust the decision to the human senses and to the 
human understanding, and to pronounce on things invisible as if 
they were seen by us, we must, in order to establish the positions 
which we have laid down, adduce the testimony of Holy Scripture.
[Origen, First Principles, 4.1.1; from the Latin]
Thus the first thing mentioned is the need to "adduce the testimony" of 
scripture.  For this, Origen must establish a basis for understanding and 
interpreting scripture--a method of exegesis.  He argues in paragraphs 1-6 
that the scripture speaks with a profound power and authority which implies
divine inspiration.  He further suggests that much of scripture's meaning is 
not literal, but beneath the surface, hidden and figurative.  Many take this for 
granted now, but it was a new idea for Christians of Origen's day.  
He elaborates this view with many examples in paragraphs 7-19.  Then, in 
paragraphs 20-22, he considers a particular example which sets the stage for 
our quote.  He refers to St. Paul's statement in Romans 9:6: For they are 
not all Israel, which are of Israel.  Here is the actual passage from 
Romans 9:
6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they are 
not all Israel, which are of Israel:
7 Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham, are they all 
children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.   
8 That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the 
children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for the 
seed. 
[Rom 9:6-8; KJV]
For St. Paul here, the believing Gentiles who have attained "the righteousness 
which is of faith" are the true children of God's promise to Abraham: that the 
children of Israel will be as the sand of the sea.  The point is that a Gentile 
who hears and believes would be a spiritual Israelite; a disbelieving Jew 
would not.  
Origen is simply alluding to this distinction of St. Paul, and further suggesting 
that ones being a "spiritual Israelite" (i.e., a believing Christian) or not may 
result from some choice of the soul in a hypothetical pre-existence.  He likens 
this to how ones situation in the afterlife is a "consequence of the deeds done 
here."
From the context, then, it is completely clear that the topic of reincarnation is 
not addressed by the quote. Reincarnation is not mentioned at all in Book 4.
It's almost astonishing that people could miss this point so badly. Any 
reading, however casual, of the immediately preceding chapters would make 
this abundantly clear.  One can only assume that those who present this 
quote as evidence of Origen's reincarnation views did not bother to examine 
Book IV of First Principles.
Mystery Quote 5
Here is our fifth mystery quote:
Questionable Quote
By some inclination toward evil, certain spirit souls come into 
bodies, first of men; then, due to their association with the 
irrational passions after the allotted span of human life, they are 
changed into beasts, from which they sink to the level of plants. 
From this condition they rise again through the same stages and are 
restored to their heavenly place.
      ~attributed by some to Origen
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
[ Example ]
The actual passage comes not from Origen, but Gregory of Nyssa:
Actual Quote
For I have heard persons who hold these opinions saying that whole nations of souls are hidden 
away somewhere in a realm of their own, living a life analogous to that of the embodied soul; but 
such is the fineness and buoyancy of their substance that they themselves' roll round along with 
the revolution of the universe; and that these souls, having individually lost their wings 
through some gravitation towards evil, become embodied; first this takes place in men; and after 
that, passing from a human life, owing to brutish affinities of their passions, they are reduced to 
the level of brutes; and, leaving that, drop down to this insensate life of pure nature which 
you have been hearing so much of; so that that inherently fine and buoyant thing that the soul is 
first becomes weighted and downward tending in consequence of some vice, and so migrates to 
a human body; then its reasoning powers are extinguished, and it goes on living in some brute; 
and then even this gift of sensation is withdrawn, and it changes into the insensate plant life; 
but after that mounts up again by the same gradations until it is restored to its place in heaven.
~ Gregory of Nyssa, On the Soul and the Resurrection, 113
[ Source ]
[ Alt. source ]
This quote proved the most difficult to track down.  It doesn't appear in the 
translation of First Principles by Crombie in the Ante-Nicene 
Fathers (1866-1872) series. It is found, though, in one popular English 
translation by Butterworth (1936/1966); this is a German-to-English translation of 
Koetschau's German translation.  Koetschau attempted a magnum opus that 
would reconstruct the original First Principles as it existed before Rufinus' 
edited Latin translation, the form in which most of the work reached us.  It has been 
suggested that Koetschau made too liberal use of secondary sources (i.e., quoted or 
paraphrased passages merely attributed to Origen by later writers), and this is a case 
in point.
Koetschau believed there was a lacuna in the Latin at the end of Book 1, and there he 
inserted the passage above from Gregory of Nyssa's On the Soul and the 
Resurrection.  Koetschau's reasons for this included that 
Jerome and Justinian,
at different times, accused Origen of believing in Pythagorean reincarnation.  
However, the objectivity of Jerome and Justinian, however, in this matter, strongly 
colored by personal and perhaps political issues (Clark, 1992), is usually questioned.
That particular issue aside, we must evaluate the relevance of the passage on its own 
merits--does it accurately reflect Origen's views?  We can cite at least four reasons 
that suggest it does not.
First, Gregory neither states or hints that he refers to Origen here. He merely 
mentions "persons who hold these opinions."  He also calls this something he heard, 
but writes at least 100 years after Origen.  Moore and Wilson (1893) assumed 
Gregory refers here to Pythagoreans and later Platonists.  Therefore, concerning this 
passage, one is not justified in saying, "Origen said…" or even "Gregory of Nyssa 
reports Origen as saying…".  We do not know to whom Gregory is referring.
Second, even if Gregory did mean to refer to Origen here, we cannot be sure he 
understood the latter completely, or that this passage is anything that appeared in 
Origen's works. 
Third, the idea that a person's soul could incarnate as an animal or plant would violate 
fundamental ideas of Origen about the nature of rational souls.  Throughout First 
Principles Origen seems to suggest that the correct or incorrect use of free will 
determines reward or punishment in future Ages, and that this free will is exercised 
by a rational soul only.  A soul's descent into an irrational organism would prevent it 
from earning the merit, through proper use of its free will, by which it might rise 
again. Since, in First Principles, Origen held out the technical possibility 
that even devil might ultimately be saved, one does not see how he could then allow 
that other souls to reach such an impasse.
Origen insisted that the souls of humans must always retain
the faculties of rational thought and choice--for it is on that basis that
they earn or fail to earn spiritual merit.  A plant's soul could never evolve
to that of a human, because a plant is neither rational nor a freely-choosing
intelligent entity.  Therefore it could do nothing to deserve being reincarnated
to a higher organism or human being.
The possibility that a rational soul could become irrational.
He argues that animals souls and ours differ qualitatively.
Unlike ours, the animal's soul is not reasonable.
The implication seems that this is an essential, not an accidental difference, and that 
one cannot become the other.
-->
Fourth, and perhaps most importantly, Origen rejects the theory of reincarnation in 
other works. He rejects the doctrine in at least five different sections of Agains 
Celsus
(Sections  
1.20,
3.75,
4.83,
5.49,
8.30
)
These leave little room for doubt about his views.  For example, in 8.30 he states, 
"we do not believe that souls pass from one body to another, and that they 
may descend so low as to enter the bodies of the brutes."  
If any were to suggest that all Origen meant here is to reject the Pythagorean view of 
reincarnation, we can find clear evidence in other works of his rejection of the 
modern view as well.
First 
Principles, and who misrepresented the ideas there to support their own.
-->
In his Commentary on the Gospel of John (Section 6.7), Origen rejects the 
theory of reincarnation, giving as a specific example the alleged reincarnation of 
Elijah as John the Baptist: 
Another, however, a churchman, who repudiates the doctrine of transcorporation as a 
false one, and does not admit that the soul of John ever was Elijah, may appeal to the 
above-quoted words of the angel, and point out that it is not the soul of Elijah that is 
spoken of at John's birth, but the spirit and power of Elijah. "He shall go before him," 
it is said, "in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the 
children. 
~ Origen, Commentary on John 6.7
[
Source
]
[
Alt. source
]
He argues similarly in his Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew (Section 
13.1):
In this place it does not appear to me that by Elijah the soul is spoken of, lest I 
should fall into the dogma of transmigration, which is foreign to the church of God, 
and not handed down by the Apostles, nor anywhere set forth in the Scriptures; for it 
is also in opposition to the saying that "things seed are temporal," [2 Cor iv. 18] and 
that "this age shall have a consummation," and also to the fulfilment of the saying, 
"Heaven and earth shall pass away," [Matt. xxiv. 35] and "the fashion of this world 
passeth away," [1 Cor. vii. 31] and "the heavens shall perish," [Ps. cii. 26] and what 
follows.
~ Origen, Commentary on Matthew, 13.1
[
Source
]
[
Alt. source
]
Note how, in this second passage, Origen suggests that reincarnation is incompatible 
with biblical teaching concerning end times--recalling to mind our earlier comments 
about his positive orthodoxy and the inherent difficulties posed by any attempt to 
reconcile either Pythagorean or modern reincarnation theories with the resurrection 
of the body.
The preponderance of evidence, then, suggests that Koetschau went too far in 
presenting these words as Origen's.  The same conclusion is reached by later 
scholars, notably Crouzel and Simonetti(1978) and Görgemanns and Karpp (1992).
Koetschau may have misjudged the needs of readers.  To produce a conjectural 
reconstruction of First Principles is an interesting exercise.  However, such 
a product serves a different purpose than as an authoritative reference work.  For the 
latter, one must control or limit variation introduced by subjective judgment.  From 
Rufinus' Latin translation, and from the sections preserved in their original Greek in 
the Philocalia, we have a reasonably good idea of what Origen means to say.  That is, 
there are no ideas that are incomplete, no substantial gaps in the flow of arguments, 
or the main or even subsidiary ideas.  In the case of Rufinus' translation, there is 
clear evidence of bias, but we can assess the extent of bias by comparison to the 
Philocalia--and doing this we see that Rufinus' translation is, overall, sound.  We 
know a great deal of the historical context, and from this can make reasonable 
guesses as to Rufinus' motives (which are scarcely as dark as some would like to 
suggest), and adjust for these in our own reading.
The problem, however, is not helped by adding new sources, the biased nature of 
which is even more certain, but the degree and nature of which open to even more 
speculation and endless debate.  The example alluded to above concerning Clement 
of Alexandria is a case in point.  Even more dubious is the inclusion of supposed 
quotations of First Principles  by Justinian of First Principles, who 
was expressly interested in discrediting Origen.
Such speculative material could easily be relegated to footnotes, rather than 
interpolated into the actual text, as we see in Butterworth's English translation of 
Koetschau.  Or the extra material might at least be italicized.  But in Butterworth's 
translation, and, perhaps that of Koetschau, the material is freely inserted into the 
text itself.  If one doesn't check the footnotes, one doesn't see this.
-->
Conclusions
We have examined several passages which have been attributed to Origen.  In 
each case it has been shown that the material does not support the allegation 
that Origen believed in or taught the doctrine of reincarnation, in either the 
Pythagorean or modern forms.
The same websites also supply quotes from other Church Fathers to support 
their claims that early Christianity taught reincarnation.  It's probably 
unnecessary to examine these others in detail, since it's really the case of 
Origen that makes or breaks the entire "early Christian reincarnationism" 
theory.  Examing these other quotes one finds the same things we've seen 
here--edited quotations, passages taken out of context, and copying from site 
to site without verifying sources.
We might debate whether some Christian gnostics in the early centuries 
believed in reincarnation.  We might further debate whether these should 
accurately be termed "Christian," or whether they are better described as 
synchrenistic religions that included some nominally Christian beliefs.  Here is 
not the place to do so. But in no case does one find any early writer 
customarily associated with orthodox views arguing for reincarnation.  
Based on the material presented here, perhaps some of authors who have 
posted the mistakenly interpreted quotes on their websites will consider 
removing them.
Acknowledgments 
The author thanks Roger Pearse, Frank Swoboda, and Didaskalex for their 
helpful assistance with source material.
Bibliography
Reference Sources
Clark, Elizabeth A. 
The Origenist Controversy.  
Princeton: Princeton 
University Press, 1992. 
ISBN: 0691031738.
Gregory of Nyssa.
On the Making of Man.
Tr. William Moore and Henry Austin Wilson.
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Series Two, Vol. V.
Philip Schaff and Henry Wace, Eds.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1893.
Gregory of Nyssa.
On the Soul and the Resurrection.
Tr. William Moore and Henry Austin Wilson.
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, Series Two, Vol. V.
Philip Schaff and Henry Wace, Eds.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1893.
Origen.  
Against Celsus.
Tr. Frederick Crombie.
Ante-Nicene Fathers,
Vol. IV. 
Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson, Eds.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1866-1872.
Origen.
Commentary on the Gospel of John  
Tr. Allan Menzies.
Ante-Nicene Fathers
Vol. X, 5th ed.
Allan Menzies, Ed.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1893.
Origen.
 Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew  
Tr. John Patrick.
Ante-Nicene Fathers
Vol. X, 5th ed.
Allan Menzies, Ed.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1893.
Origen.  
De Principiis.
Tr. Frederick Crombie.
Ante-Nicene Fathers,
Vol. IV. 
Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson, Eds.
Edinburgh: T &amp; T Clark, 1866-1872.
Origen.  
On First Principles.  
Tr. George. W. Butterworth (English); Paul Koetschau (German).  
New York:  Harper &amp; Row, 1936; Harper Torchbacks, 1966.  
ISBN: 0844626856.  
Origen, St Gregory Nazianus, St Basil of Caesarea.  
The Philocalia of Origen. 
Tr. George Lewis.
Edinburgh:  T &amp; T Clark, 1911.
Origène.  
Traité des Principes, Vols. 1-5 . 
Ed. and tr. Henri. Crouzel and Manlio Simonetti. 
Paris: 
Editions du Cerf, 
1978-1984.
.  
Vol. 2 (Books 1 and 2): 
1978
ISBN : 2204013269
http://www.editionducerf.fr/html/fiche/fichelivre.asp?n_liv_cerf=840
http://www.editionducerf.fr
-->
Origenes.
De Principiis.
Tr. Paul Koetschau.  
In Origenes Werke Vol. 5, 
Die Griechischen Christlichen Schriftsteller der ersten Jahrhunderte 
(GCS). 
Leipzig:  J. C.  Hinrichs, 1913.
Die Griechischen Christlichen 
Schriftsteller der Ersten Drei Jahrhunderte, Vol. 5.
Leipzig:  Akademie der Wissenschaften, 1891.
-->
Origenes.  
Vier Bücher von den Prinzipien.  
Tr. Herwig Görgemanns and Heinrich Karpp. 
Darmstadt: 
Wissenschaftliche 
Buchgesellschaft,
1992.
ISBN: 3534005937.
Prat, F.
"Origen and Origenism".
The Catholic Encyclopedia, 
Volume XI, pp. 306 ff.
New York:  Robert Appleton Company, 1911.
Online Translations of First Principles and Contra Celsus
   Ante- and Post-Nicene Fathers at
   Christian Classics Ethereal Library (CCEL)
   Ante-Nicene Fathers, Vol. 4 (incl. Origen) at Tertullian Project
   Church Fathers at New Advent
   Works of Origen at Early Christian Writings
Note.  Book IV of First Principles is incomplete on the CCEL and 
Tertullian Project websites.  Both these sites have complete, hyperlinked 
footnotes for both works, while the New Advent and Early Christian Writings 
do not. 
Pro-Early Christian Reincarnation Theory Sources
de Purucker, Gottfried. 
The Esoteric Tradition, Vol. I, 2nd edition.  Chapter 20.
Pasadena, California: Theosophical University Press, 1940.
ISBN: 0911500650.
de Purucker, Gottfried and Tingley, Katherine.  
Reincarnation. 
(First published in the series "H. P. Blavatsky: The Mystery" in The Theosophical Path in 1930.)
Head, Joseph &amp; Cranston, Sylvia L. 
Reincarnation: An East-West Anthology.
Wheaton, Illinois:  Quest Books, 1968.
MacGregor, Geddes. 
Reincarnation in Christianity: 
A New Vision of the Role of Rebirth in Christian Thought.
Wheaton, Illinois:  Quest Books, 1978.
ISBN: 0835605019. 
Oderberg, I. M. 
"Reincarnation as Taught by Early Christians".
Sunrise Magazine: Theosophic Perspectives, 
Vol. 22, May 1973, p. 227.
To Cite this Article
Uebersax, John S. (2006). 
"Early Christianity and Reincarnation: Modern Misrepresentation of Quotes 
by Origen".  
Online article.  Retrieved from 
http://john-uebersax.com/plato/origen1.htm on 
mmm dd, yyyy.
Home
  &gt;  
Psychology and Religion
Copyright © 2006 - John Uebersax 
rev: 17 Nov 2009
