http://www.thailawforum.com/news.html
Thailand’s  Notable Criminal Extradition Cases
Transsexuals  and Thai Law
Thailand  Tourist Information: A Guide to Laws in Thailand
Legal Rights  of Transgenders in Thailand
Sex  Laws in Thailand Part 3: Civil Society and Law Enforcement
Sex  Laws in Thailand Part 2: Laws Regulating Commercial Sex and Entertainment  Places
Sex Laws  in Thailand Part 1
US Sex Laws Abroad: The Long Arm of Uncle Sam
Foreign  Mafia in Thailand
Marriage  and Divorce in Thailand: When Love Turns Deadly
Renewable  Energy in Thailand: Green Policies
NEWS :
New Laws in Thailand Aim to Curb Foreign Dominance
5 September 2011
New laws aimed at erecting a barrier against foreign  dominance in Thai telecommunications operations are now in place in Thailand.  The National Telecommunications Commission (NTC) proposed the new regulations  in order to allow more control over foreign investment in telecommunications in  Thailand, as well as to serve as a booster for the future National Broadcasting  and Telecommunications Commission in auctioning off new spectrum licenses. These  regulations strive to promote company management by local executives and  decrease incidences of foreigners using nominees to control telecommunications  companies.
Both Advanced Info Service (AIS) and Total Access  Communication (DTAC) are ready to comply with the new regulations.
The  NTC believes that the new Thailand Law  regulations are necessary to  protect Thai businesses, in light of Thailand’s commitment to the Asian Economic  Community and current market liberalization practices. Many Thai companies have  been concerned about the escalating use of nominees by foreigners to hold  shares in Thai Telecom companies.
Numerous foreign business organizations in Thailand have  opposed the new laws, raising concerns that the laws would have a negative  impact on foreign operators looking to invest in Thailand in the future.
The new laws will apply to holders of Type 2 or Type 3  licenses, as well as state telecom concessions. Type 2 license holders include telecoms  who have or do not have their own network and who have the greatest affect, due  to competition, on specific markets. Type 3 license holders do own their own  network and their competition does directly affect the public.
The NTC requires that all license and concession holders  report every year on their foreign ownership status. If the NTC determines that  foreign dominance exists, the companies are required to submit a proposal to  NTC outlining how the problem will be solved within a specified time period. If  the company fails to correct or prevent foreign dominance, the NCT is entitled  to suspend or even revoke their license.
© 
          Copyright Thailand Law Forum, All Rights Reserved 






          (except where the work is the individual works of the authors as noted)
