http://www.thailawforum.com/
Database of Thailand Law by NYU Globalex 2020 Update
Globalex has recently updated their database of global law to include a revised and updated 2020 version of their summary of Thailand law.  GlobaLex is an electronic legal publication dedicated to international and foreign law research. Published by […]
Thai Celebs Custody Dispute Highlights Need for Men to Obtain Paternity Rights
Thai celebrity Pirat “Mike” Nitipaisakul has spoken out about the difficulties faced trying to obtain custody of his child Maxwell, highlighting how Thai law gives preference to the mother in custody cases between […]
Thai Resort Sues Expat Over Negative Review
A resort in Koh Chang has filed a criminal complaint against US citizen Wesley Barnes after the American submitted a bad review on TripAdvisor. The resort is suing the man under the defamation law, claiming […]
Support Grows for Decriminalizing Prostitution in Thailand
The Empower Foundation aims to collect 10,000 signatures to show parliament in a bid to decriminalize the current prostitution law in Thailand. As of 23rd September 2020, the petition has reached over 1,000 signatures. Surang […]
Will Medical Cannabis be the Answer to Thailand’s Economic Woes?
At the end of 2018, Thailand made history by becoming the first Asian country to legalize medical cannabis. The move was a significant surprise, considering that almost all of Thailand’s Southeast Asian neighbors routinely hand […]
Breaking News
Database of Thailand Law by NYU Globalex 2020 Update
Globalex has recently updated their database of global law to include a revised and updated 2020 version of their summary of Thailand law.  GlobaLex is an electronic legal publication dedicated to international and foreign law research. Published by […]
Breaking News
Database of Thailand Law by NYU Globalex 2020 Update
Bombay High Court Orders Release of Sex Workers
Thai Celebs Custody Dispute Highlights Need for Men to Obtain Paternity Rights
Thai Resort Sues Expat Over Negative Review
Reader’s Picks: Thailand Law Features
Database of Thailand Law by NYU Globalex 2020 Update
Globalex has recently updated their database of global law to include a revised and updated 2020 version of their summary of Thailand law.  GlobaLex is an electronic legal publication dedicated to international and foreign law research. Published by […]
List of Approved Medical Cannabis Clinics in Thailand
In December 2018, Thailand legalized medical cannabis. Since that time, research and development at Thai hospitals and universities have led to FDA-approved medical cannabis products that can be obtained not just at certain government hospitals, […]
Summary of Thailand’s New Medical Marijuana Law: Drug Abuse Act (No. 7) BE 2562
The previous law concerning drug penalties was amended due to certain provisions that did not keep up with the current situation and research in regards to cannabis. Cannabis has been shown to have medicinal benefits […]
Nominee Land Purchase in Thailand: An Overview
Purchasing land in Thailand using Thai nominees is a fairly common loophole used by law firms and foreigners to skirt existing Thai laws. But just because it’s is sometimes a successful means for foreigners to […]
Thailand Law Guides and Summaries
Fringe Medical Practices in Thailand
Sex Change Laws in Thailand
Divorce Law in Thailand
Parentage Law Code
Buying a Condominium in Thailand
New Thailand Law, Translations
The Stipulation of Residential Property Leasing as a Contract-Controlled Business B.E. 2561 (2018)
Thailand Electrical Saw Law
Draft Foreign Business Act
Thailand Medical Council Regulations on Surrogacy and IVF
Thailand Draft Surrogacy Law

Categories
Archives
Empower Sex Work Museum
Female Monk Activist Interview
Thailand Lawyer Blog
This website  is managed and maintained by Chaninat & Leeds, a Thailand Lawyer firm with a full  service law practice.  Chaninat &  Leeds’ US and Thai Attorneys have been representing clients in Thailand and abroad for over 40  years.
While this site does provide information on law-related topics, it does not provide legal advice. Moreover, due to the rapidly changing nature of the law and our reliance on information provided by outside sources, we make no warranty or guarantee concerning the accuracy or reliability of the content at this site or at other sites to which we link. Before taking any legal action, persons are advised to seek the advice of an attorney qualified in the area of law concerned.
