            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogHigher EducationOpinionState Policy
                            Democrats Just Voted AGAINST Free College
                                By Steve Klinsky                                                                                                                            
		Steve Klinsky
Here is a man-bites-dog story for you. The Democrats just voted against free college for all.
On Feb. 27, Democrats in New Hampshire defeated House Bill 673, which would have allocated $100,000 to cover the cost of students taking exams for free college credit. The bill was defeated by a vote of 202-141, with 199 Democrats “opposed” and only four in favor. The bill was proposed by Glenn Cordelli, a longstanding (Republican) member of the Education Committee of the New Hampshire House of Representatives.
The $100,000 of funding would have paid the test fees for approximately 1,000 “CLEP” exams, and each passed exam could have saved a hard-pressed New Hampshire family the need to pay for a traditional college course, textbooks and fees — a savings that may reach $1,000-$2,000 per course or more, all in. Assuming eight courses equal an average college year, 1,000 CLEPs can equal about 125 years’ worth of free college tuition to Granite State residents, all for the same cost that a single wealthy student pays for just a year or two at an elite college today.
CLEP (or College Level Examination Program) exams are administered by the College Board, the nonprofit that also offers the SAT and the Advanced Placement exams. The CLEPs have been around for over 50 years, and can be taken by any person of any age or background, any day of the week, in 32 fundamental college subjects, from college algebra to sociology.
About 2,900 traditional colleges and universities (Ohio State, Penn State, Texas State, Morehouse, et al.) recognize CLEPs for credit, and both public and private colleges have been very supportive of CLEPs as an “on ramp” into their schools and as a practical way to make college more affordable for all. Each CLEP test passed brings a student one course closer to graduation, and many schools will allow students to “CLEP out” of a full year’s worth of courses (“freshman year for free”). The University of New Hampshire allows students to “CLEP out” of two years’ worth of courses in a four-year degree, or one year worth of courses for a two-year degree
Research shows that students who pass a CLEP are more likely overall to graduate from college, and more likely to do better on the follow-up course. The U.S. military has long paid the CLEP exam fee for active-duty military personnel (typically around $87-$100 per exam). The New Hampshire bill would have done the same for state residents, up to the $100,000 limit. The state likely would have saved taxpayer money for its kindness, because state spending on college already eats up about 10 percent of most state budgets, often in less efficient ways.
The CLEP exams have become particularly useful just in the past year or two because a complete online library — ModernStates.org — of totally tuition-free college courses to prepare for the CLEPs is now in existence. Modern States (a nonprofit philanthropy) has gained over 120,000 registered users since its launch about 18 months ago, and offers free online college courses (plus free online textbooks) in every CLEP subject. The free courses are taught by some of the nation’s best professors, from Johns Hopkins, George Washington University, Purdue, Tufts, and elsewhere.
With the proposed bill, anyone in New Hampshire could have learned the course material for free at ModernStates.org or elsewhere, taken the CLEP exams with state reimbursement, and saved up to two years of college cost when graduating from a great college like UNH. Here was “free college” today in a real-world and eminently achievable way.
The bill was voted down chiefly on a party-line vote. An outside observer can only conclude that party politics overcame common sense.
It’s a sad day when Democrats prevent poor kids from affording college. The Democratic Party should not make the same mistake outside of New Hampshire, and should correct its vote within New Hampshire. The goal of affordable education for all is a nonpartisan and bipartisan goal, as is the leadership of enabling philanthropies like Modern States. Support for CLEP exam fees – coupled with a public library of free college courses online – is the most efficient way to begin to achieve this goal. The same concept could work with free vocational courses, coupled with free nationally approved or state-approved licensing exams.
It only costs about $50,000-$100,000 to produce an online course, which can then be available free to everyone thereafter. A library of 100 great courses could be created for just $5 million to $10 million, as Modern States’ creation of its own public library of free courses has proven.
Why should tens of thousands of songs be available online for free, or tens of thousands of books at a public library, while a terrible online vocational course from the worst trade school still can cost $2,000? Support for a free public library of online courses with free certification exams or state-reimbursed CLEP exams can help make college more affordable now as a highly practical bipartisan step.
Steve Klinsky is the founder and CEO of the Modern States Education Alliance and the chairman of Harvard’s Program on Education Policy and Governance.
This post originally appeared in Real Clear Politics.
					Last updated March 7, 2019
					License this Content
			Steve KlinskyAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            The Spring 2019 Issue of Education Next Is Here!
            March 6, 2019
            Next Article
            The Risks Exceed the Rewards: A Nationwide Federal Tax Credit Scholarship Program
            March 8, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Free College Is Now Here … Really
		by Steve Klinsky
		The Education Exchange: First Year of College Available Online, Tuition-Free
					“A tripling of interest when coronavirus first broke out.”
		by Education Next
		How Governors Can Give All Students ‘Freshman Year for Free’
		by Jeb Bush
                                    Steve Klinsky	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
