            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            Four Things I Wish Incredibles 2 Had Asked About Gifted Kids
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
So, I saw Incredibles 2 the other day. It was fine—sweet, watchable, and amusing. I mean, what else would you expect? But, given how terrific the original was, I’d kind of hoped that—with 14 years to noodle on it—the talented Brad Bird would come up with something phenomenal. And he didn’t. This was especially obvious because the first film was so spot-on when it came to exploring adolescent angst, giftedness, and how parents wrestle with simultaneously protecting their kids and pushing them out into the world.
This time, it seemed like Bird was positioned to go to a similar place in regards to baby Jack-Jack (the youngest Incredible). I’m not giving away any spoilers if I note that Jack-Jack reveals the same suite of powers he showed off at the end of the first movie. Given Bird’s chops and the immense humanity of his characters, there were some dynamics that I think it would’ve been really fun and engaging to see the movie play with—and which would’ve fit readily within the hefty chunks of time devoted to the Incredibles’ domestic travails.
What kinds of dynamics do I have in mind?
1. The impulse to funnel kids into narrow pursuits, based on adult calculations and expectations. There’s a terrific moment when fashionista Edna Mode, a friend and mentor to the Incredibles, observes Jack-Jack’s array of powers and tells Mr. Incredible that many “supers” have their powers winnow over time. I couldn’t help but think of kids getting pushed to specialize in football or basketball at ridiculously young ages. I would’ve loved to see Jack-Jack in a setting where adults are trying to force him to focus on developing just one power.
2. The inevitable temptation for parents to live through our kids, and put our demons on them. This is especially true when we’re feeling like our own dreams haven’t come together the way we hoped. Seeing an exhausted, out-of-work Mr. Incredible’s chest-thumping enthusiasm for Jack-Jack’s gifts brought to mind a raft of ways parents prematurely pressure their kids—like pushing a diapered baby to refine his skills or insisting he’s ready to take on the larger world. It would have been fun to see Bird evoke the ways in which healthy pride can bleed into selfishness.
3. The difference between a parent cultivating and exploiting a child’s talent. Parents push tiny kids into beauty pageants and try to get them cast in commercials. You can rationalize any of this, if you try, but it’s also pretty obvious that a lot of it is about what parents want and the material rewards they can reap. It would’ve been intriguing to see the motel-dwelling Incredibles trying to cash in on Jack-Jack, out of necessity—or convenience. If anything, when two older Incredible siblings are ultimately pressed to use their powers to bail out their parents, mom and dad are a whole lot less conflicted or cognizant about it than they were the first time around.
4. The conflicts that can arise in families when children have different gifts. This is particularly true when it feels like parents are more taken with one child than another. What happens when older siblings suddenly feel overshadowed by the baby of the family? However Dash and Violet would have reacted, I think it would have been fascinating to see.
Few artists are all that good at capturing or offering insight into these tensions. So I can’t help but think that tackling all this would’ve added a lot of resonance and texture here, in a way that might have made Incredibles 2 a worthy sequel to its remarkable predecessor. Yet, all the same, I trust you’ll enjoy the movie for what it is.
— Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next. 
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated June 26, 2018
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            What Accounts for Gaps in Student Loan Default, and What Happens After
            June 25, 2018
            Next Article
            Both Teachers and the Public Back Janus Decision by Supreme Court
            June 27, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Germany Is Leaving its Bright Students Behind
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		School Choice Goes To the Movies
		by Alina Adams
		Narrowing the Gifted Gap for Disadvantaged Students
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
