Jump to navigation
Harry Redknapp hits out at police raid on home
  By Alex Crook  
 30 November 2007 • 00:01 am 
Angry: Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp denied any wrongdoing
Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp angrily denied any wrongdoing yesterday after being arrested by police investigating alleged corruption in football.
  Police move focus to second Faye deal  
  Portsmouth homepage  |  Football fans' forum  
Redknapp was called in for several hours of questioning on Wednesday after officers from City of London Police carried out an early-morning raid on his home. The former West Ham, Southampton and Bournemouth manager, released on bail until February, called a press conference at Portsmouth's training ground to protest his innocence.
Angry: Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp denied any wrongdoing 
Redknapp, 60, said: "I have called this press conference because I need to clear up the chain of events. I went to watch a player on Tuesday in Germany, to watch Stuttgart play Glasgow Rangers. I arrived back in Heathrow on Wednesday morning and my wife was on the phone leaving hysterical messages.
"The police had been round at six o'clock in the morning accompanied by photographers. My wife let them in, they searched the house and took a computer I bought her for Christmas two years ago. They also raided Peter Storrie and Milan Mandaric's houses.
"I got a message asking me to come down to the police station and help with their inquiries. I still feel I was only brought into this because I am high-profile and brought a bit of profile to the investigation. This has nothing to do with me.
"I am particularly disappointed the police felt the need to come knocking on my door at that time of the morning. My wife was home alone because I was on my way back into the country and she was absolutely petrified.
"Why I could not just have had a phone call asking me to turn up at the police station, I do not know. If you are telling me this is how you treat anyone, it is not the society I grew up in."
Redknapp was taken to Chichester police station along with Portsmouth chief executive Storrie. The pair were formally arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting.
Former Portsmouth owner Mandaric, agent Willie McKay and Charlton midfielder Amdy Faye were also arrested at separate police stations on suspicion of the same charges. Mandaric, who is now Leicester chairman, was arrested on suspicion of money laundering.
The 11-month investigation centres around Faye's £1.5 million transfer from Auxerre to Portsmouth in 2003 during Redknapp's first spell in charge there. Redknapp claims he was asked to answer questions about an alleged payment made by an agent to a player, now on loan at Rangers, from his agent's fee and insisted he was not a suspect.
He added: "I really do not know what I was doing there because it is none of my business what a player and his agent do.
"Peter Storrie has done a great job for this football club. You will not meet a more honest man and he is full of honesty and integrity. Milan Mandaric was the man who came in and saved Portsmouth from going out of business. This club is totally honest and transparent and there is nothing that goes on we are afraid of."
Portsmouth cancelled their usual pre-match Thursday press conference ahead of tomorrow's game at home to Everton after news of Redknapp's arrest broke. Club officials reluctantly opened the door to the media, however, after Redknapp insisted on making a statement to try to clear his name.
Redknapp appeared to be in a relaxed mood and even made several jokes as he read from prepared notes during the 10-minute briefing.
He refused to answer any questions from the 40-strong press contingent and left after a journalist mentioned Panorama's undercover probe into alleged bungs in football in 2005. Redknapp appeared in the BBC documentary, along with Newcastle manager Sam Allardyce and former Portsmouth assistant Kevin Bond, although there was no evidence to suggest he was involved in any questionable dealings.
"This is a fantastic and well-run club and we are playing the best football we have played for 50 years, and in the highest league position for 50 years," Redknapp said. "I just want to get back to concentrating on football."
Redknapp speaks out
Redknapp had emerged as one of the leading candidates for the England manager's job, but his odds with bookmakers last night had lengthened from 6-1 to 20-1.
 Mandaric said yesterday: "I am confident the truth will prevail and we will not be charged. Harry is a dear friend of mine and we will be doing all we can to co-operate with police in this investigation.
"We have got to do what we have got to do but have nothing to hide. As far as I am concerned it is business as usual."
Twitter Icon
Facebook Icon
WhatsApp Icon
Email Icon
Comment speech bubble
Advertisement
More stories
Twitter Icon
Facebook Icon
WhatsApp Icon
Email Icon
Comment speech bubble
More from The Telegraph
More stories
Live
Coronavirus latest news: UK now at 'tipping point', says top advisor, with new lockdown measures expected 
By
Lizzie Roberts
11 Oct 2020, 10:04am
Special report: How live greyhound racing became the last refuge for sports fans
By
Mike McGrath
11 Oct 2020, 10:00am
We should not let a minority of activists rewrite our shared history
Robin Wales
11 Oct 2020, 9:47am
Marcus Rashford to wear boots carrying children's messages of hope
By
James Ducker
11 Oct 2020, 9:00am
Scandal in the Vatican: Who is behind Cardinal Becciu's fall from grace?
By
Nick Squires
11 Oct 2020, 9:00am
As a lockdown sceptic, I now know what it must feel like to have been a Remainer
Daniel Hannan
11 Oct 2020, 9:00am
News website of the year
The Telegraph
Coronavirus
News
Politics
Sport
Business
Money
Opinion
Tech
Life
Style
Travel
Culture
Search Icon
Subscribe now
Free for one month
									Log in
See all News
UK news
UK news home
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
World news
World news home
USA
Europe
Middle East
Asia
Australasia
Africa
Latin America
Royals
Royals home
The Queen
Prince Philip
Prince Charles
Duchess of Cornwall
Prince William
Duchess of Cambridge
Prince Harry
Duchess of Sussex
More...
Health
Defence
Science
Education
Investigations
Investigations home
Signals Network
Contact us
Global Health Security
Global Health Security home
Climate &amp; People
Science &amp; Disease
Terror &amp; Security
Women &amp; Girls
Opinion &amp; Analysis
The Telegraph
 Back to top
Follow us on:
Facebook icon
Instagram icon
Twitter icon
Snapchat icon
LinkedIn icon
YouTube icon
 Contact us 
 About us 
 Rewards 
 Archive 
 Reader Prints 
 Branded Content 
 Syndication and Commissioning 
 Guidelines 
 Privacy 
 Terms and Conditions 
 Advertising Terms 
 Fantasy Sport 
 UK Voucher Codes 
 Betting Offers 
 Modern Slavery 
© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2020
