				The 74
						News
Opinion
Pandemic
Analysis
Videos
Newsfeed
                        Trending Topics
						Coronavirus
EDlection 2020
4Fams
Keeping it 100
The 74 Interview
Union Report
Big Picture
Personalized Learning
						About
Supporters
Jobs
Newsletter
Code of Ethics
                            More from T74
							LA School Report
The Founders
The Alumni
TopSheet
						Contact Us
						Info@the74million.org
						Letters to the Editor
					Newsletter
Jobs
Supporters
About
Contact
The 74’s Code of Ethics
						Follow  us
							©2020 The 74 Media Inc. 
							Terms &amp; Conditions 
							Privacy Policy
						A Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom Interactions
						All States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at All
						It’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students Altogether
						Hipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like Me
						Adams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually Learned
						A School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than Ever
						Porter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the Same
						A Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and Independent
						Steele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their Options
						Integrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of Whiteness
						Students’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity Entrepreneurs
						Hodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’
						Abdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student Exchanges
						Rausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; Wellness
						Collective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can Succeed
						Sharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in Math
						Adams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just Fine
						Analysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual Successes
						4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your Children
						Taheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong
			Next
			Prev
				OpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesBy Karen Garibay-Mulattieri | September 22, 2020
				(Robyn Beck/AFP via Getty Images)
					TALKING POINTSGaribay-Mulattieri: It's time to view a first language not as a barrier but as an asset for English learners &amp; celebrate their bilingual successesGaribay-Mulattieri: As states and districts modify accountability plans, they should consider including longitudinal data of English learners after they are reclassified as English proficient and no longer receive language services
					In the United States, bilingual education in schools has been an afterthought for decades. But demographic changes in the student population, and new research out of Chicago, demand that it occupy a more meaningful role in how we measure success in serving these students, as well as other groups of learners. Today, as a policy analyst with decades of experience, I am encouraging a new approach to accountability that places a value on bilingual skills.
The catalyst was a 2019 study published by the University of Chicago Consortium on School Research. The study followed 18,000 English learners from kindergarten through eighth grade and found that they outperformed native English speakers on various benchmarks when given the proper resources. From higher attendance rates to better performance on eighth-grade English Language Arts PARCC exams, the study suggests that using longitudinal data not only is a more accurate way to capture the academic success of English learners but could also apply to other groups of students as well.
For me, the data are validating. As a child living in Mexico City and attending foreign schools, I spoke English as my first language but began taking Spanish in preschool. Although I never imagined myself entering the field of education, my early days with Mexican culture and language became a cornerstone of my future career as a teacher and school leader. I learned to communicate with different groups of people, to ask questions and to better understand their values and traditions.
As a college student working with low-income migrant workers in Michigan in the 1980s, I came to appreciate the importance of bilingual education as a lifeline for marginalized communities. Most of my students’ parents had less than a high school education and spoke Spanish at home. In those days, bilingual education was a new concept in the United States, and the goal back then was simply to help these students learn English. But part of me wondered if bilingualism, itself, should be the goal.
I had a chance to test out my theory years later as an educator in urban and suburban school districts and while working at the state level to develop dual language programs. In 1998, as the director of English learner programs for West Chicago School District 33, I served in an elementary district with six schools and a growing Latino population. The district had gone through a civil rights audit that highlighted tensions within the community and the need to come together to better serve Latino students.
After a contentious debate, the local school board voted to implement a dual language program at one magnet school. Under the program, students were taught in English and Spanish beginning in kindergarten and continuing through eighth grade. This year marks the 20th anniversary of the program, which is now available in all district schools and has become a model for other districts.
Woodstock, Illinois, is another example; it’s a community on the northern border of the state, close to Wisconsin, with similar demographics to West Chicago. The local program director studied the West Chicago program and created dual language schools, starting in preschool and continuing through high school. The goal was to embrace bilingualism and biliteracy as well as to raise academic achievement for Latinos.
Today, the district reports a 96 percent four-year high school graduation rate for Latinos, a measure that many more affluent communities have been unable to achieve. Many of the high school students at these dual language schools go on to earn the State Seal of Biliteracy, a designation on their high school transcript that demonstrates their multi-language proficiency and college readiness to the world of work and postsecondary education. Students earn college credit by obtaining this credential.
In 2014, I led the Office of Language and Cultural Education for Chicago Public Schools, the third-largest district in the country. At the time, there were more than 600 neighborhood and charter schools, the student enrollment was 46 percent Latino, and 1 out of every 3 students was either an active or a former English learner. Nevertheless, just 12 schools offered dual language programs. Today, more than 40 do.
During this period, the number of students graduating from high school with the Illinois State Seal of Biliteracy has risen from fewer than 200 students per year to more than 2,000. For them, earning the state seal acknowledges their culture and affirms their goals to advance in education beyond high school.
For me, as a lifelong educator of color, there is a prevailing truth in the culmination of this long, personal journey. As states and districts develop and modify accountability plans at this pivotal juncture in the nation’s learning landscape, they should consider including longitudinal data of English learners after they are reclassified as English proficient and no longer receive language services. Their first language should no longer be viewed as a barrier, but rather as an asset. More important, their culture should be recognized and valued, and their success should be acknowledged in the programming and credentialing of our school systems. It all must start in the classroom.
Karen Garibay-Mulattieri is senior education analyst for the Illinois-based Latino Policy Forum and former chief officer for language and cultural education for Chicago Public Schools. 
RelatedSign up for The 74’s newsletter
					TagsChicago					
					Submit a Letter to the Editor
				September 22, 2020 Karen Garibay-MulattieriKaren Garibay-Mulattieri is senior education analyst for the Illinois-based Latino Policy Forum and former chief officer for language and cultural education for Chicago Public Schools. contributor@the74million.org				
				Submit a Letter to the Editor
				TALKING POINTSGaribay-Mulattieri: It's time to view a first language not as a barrier but as an asset for English learners &amp; celebrate their bilingual successesGaribay-Mulattieri: As states and districts modify accountability plans, they should consider including longitudinal data of English learners after they are reclassified as English proficient and no longer receive language services
					Sign Up for the T74 Newsletter
						Submit
				MOST READParents File Lawsuits to Halt School Face Mask Mandates as Districts Impose Health Rules to Slow PandemicWhen the Point of the Pod Is Equity: How Small Grants Are Empowering Parents of Underserved Students to Form Pandemic MicroschoolsYouth Suicide: The Other Public Health CrisisPhoto Tour: What Back to School Looked Like in 16 Countries Around the World, Where Little About the Classroom (or Family Garage) Feels Familiar Amid the PandemicNew Report Estimates School Closures’ Long-Term Impact on the U.S. Economy at More Than $14 TrillionShut Out of Schools Due to Pandemic, Many Education Researchers Say Their Work Is ‘In Shambles’				
					Read Next
					OpinionA Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom InteractionsOpinionAll States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at AllOpinionIt’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students AltogetherOpinionHipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like MeOpinionAdams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually LearnedOpinionA School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than EverOpinionPorter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the SameOpinionA Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and IndependentOpinionSteele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their OptionsOpinionIntegrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of WhitenessOpinionStudents’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity EntrepreneursOpinionHodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’OpinionAbdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student ExchangesOpinionRausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; WellnessOpinionCollective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can SucceedOpinionSharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in MathOpinionAdams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just FineOpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesOpinion4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your ChildrenOpinionTaheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong				
					You might have missed...
