            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Events
                            Have We Closed Socioeconomic Achievement Gaps?
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
			Sponsors
Have We Closed Socioeconomic Achievement Gaps?
A new analysis using 50 years of student achievement data
Tuesday, April 9, 2019
Hoover Institution, The Johnson Center | 1399 New York Ave NW, Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005
A new study released by Education Next uses nearly 50 years of student performance data in math, reading, and science to examine whether the achievement gap between advantaged and disadvantaged students has widened, narrowed, or persisted. Join us for an event to discuss the findings with the report authors and a panel of experts.
Join the conversation on Twitter with #TheSESgap.
Lunch will be available beginning at 11:45 a.m.
12:00 PM: Welcome
Martin R. West, Harvard Graduate School of Education
12:05 PM: Presentation of Results
Eric A. Hanushek, Stanford University; Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution
Download the presentation slides
12:20 PM: Panel Discussion
Moderator: Martin R. West, Harvard Graduate School of Education
• Isabel Sawhill, Brookings Institution
• Emma Vadehra, Executive Director, Next100
1:30 PM: Adjourn
Moderator
Martin R. West
Martin West is professor of education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He is also deputy director of Harvard’s Program on Education Policy and Governance and editor-in-chief of Education Next, a journal of opinion and research. He received his Ph.D. in Government and Social Policy from Harvard University and his M.Phil in Economic and Social History from Oxford University. In 2013-14, West worked as senior education policy advisor to the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
@ProfMartyWest
Panelists
Eric Hanushek
Eric Hanushek is the Paul and Jean Hanna Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution of Stanford University. He is a leader in the development of economic analysis of educational issues. He has authored numerous, highly cited studies on the effects of class size reduction, high stakes accountability, the assessment of teacher quality, and other education related topics. He introduced the idea of measuring teacher quality through the growth in student achievement that forms the basis for the development of value-added measures for teachers and schools. Most recently, Hanushek shows that the quality of education is closely related to national economic growth. He has authored or edited twenty-three books along with over 200 articles. He is a Distinguished Graduate of the United States Air Force Academy and completed his Ph.D. in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
@EricHanushek
Isabel V. Sawhill
Isabel V. Sawhill is a senior fellow in Economic Studies at the Brookings Institution. She serves as co-director of the Budgeting for National Priorities project and co-director of the Center on Children and Families. In 2009, she began the Social Genome Project, an initiative by the Center on Children and Families that seeks to determine how to increase economic opportunity for disadvantaged children. She served as vice president and director of the Economic Studies program from 2003 to 2006. Prior to joining Brookings, Dr. Sawhill was a senior fellow at The Urban Institute. She also served as an associate director at the Office of Management and Budget from 1993 to 1995.
@isawhill
Emma Vadehra
Emma Vadehra is the executive director of Next100, a pop-up think tank for the next generation of policy leaders, powered by The Century Foundation. Prior to this role, Emma served as chief of staff for the U.S. Department of Education during the Obama administration, serving under both Secretary John B. King Jr. and Secretary Arne Duncan. As chief of staff, she worked closely with the White House and across the department to develop, execute, and oversee the administration’s pre-K-through-college education agenda. She also managed the department’s policy, budget, legislative affairs, and P–12 education offices. Earlier in the administration, she served as deputy assistant secretary for planning, evaluation, and policy development at the Department of Education. She also served as chief of staff at Uncommon Schools, a charter school management organization that builds and manages high-performing urban charter schools serving low-income students. Prior to these roles, she served as senior education counsel for former senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), focusing on K–12 education, student loans, and AmeriCorps/national service policy. Emma serves on the boards of Blue Engine and City Year New York, and is a non-resident senior fellow at the Center for American Progress. She has a JD from Yale Law School and a bachelor’s degree from Brown University.
@EmmaVadehra
					Last updated March 6, 2019
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Are State Proficiency Standards Falling?
            May 3, 2018
            Next Article
            Public Support Grows for Higher Teacher Pay and Expanded School Choice
            August 21, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		What We’re Watching: Have We Closed Socioeconomic Achievement Gaps?
		by Education Next
		EdNext Podcast: The Persistence of Achievement Gaps between Haves and Have-Nots
		by Education Next
		The Achievement Gap Fails to Close
		by Eric A. Hanushek
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
