https://www.who.int/southeastasia
Immunization
Infant and young child feeding
Health financing
Health workforce

Health data and health information systems
Traditional medicine
Essential Medicines
Tuberculosis
Step up efforts to eliminate measles: WHO
Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan for the South-East Asia Region
2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV)
Dashboard : COVID-19 Situation in the WHO South-East Asia Region
This dashboard provides the latest numbers of COVID-19 cases in the South-East Asia Region

About WHO South-East Asia

One of the six WHO Regions, WHO South-East Asia is home
to over a quarter of the world’s population.
Committed to building a better, healthier future for the nearly
two billion people in the Region, WHO is working with the 11 Member States to
address persisting and emerging epidemiological and demographic challenges.


News and feature stories
Polio networks bolster pandemic response in WHO South-East Asia Region
From assisting coordination at the national and sub-national levels, to training and building capacities for laboratory and other health workers for detecting cases, tracing contac ...
Need to continue extreme caution against COVID-19: WHO
The World Health Organization today cautioned against any relaxation of response actions following the recent slight decline in COVID-19 cases in South-East Asia Region, saying the ...
Handwashing an effective tool to prevent COVID-19, other diseases
Global Handwashing Day observed annually on October 15 to raise awareness and highlight the importance of handwashing as an effective means of disease prevention – this year marks  ...
Indian health workers transform care for women survivors of violence
Featured publications
Sustain. Accelerate. Innovate: Health for billions
A Healthier South-East Asia: 70 years of WHO in the Region
From vision to results: advancing health for billions in the South-East Asia Region
Governance
9-10 September 2020, Thailand (Virtual Session)
Seventy-third Session of the Regional Committee
Regional Director
Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh →
Featured activities
Noncommunicable diseases are the no. 1 killers in the WHO SEA Region
Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) — mainly cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes and cancer — are top killers in the South-East Asia Region, cla ...
The fatal link between tobacco and cardiovascular diseases in the WHO South-East Asia Region, May 2018
The most common way by which tobacco kills is by causing CVDs, including heart disease and stroke. The good news is that quitting tobacco use at any age reduces the risk of CVDs im ...
Co-morbidities
Several medical conditions like diabetes, malnutrition, HIV, tobacco-smoking and alcohol-use are risk factors for TB and for poor TB treatment results. Therefore, it is important t ...
Preventive TB
RC 72 endorsed the South-East Asia Regional Action Plan on Programmatic Management of Latent Tuberculosis Infection

Latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) is a state of persistent i ...
Outbreaks and emergencies
Emergencies

Invisible: The Rohingyas, the crisis, the people and their health
Roots for Resilience : A health Emergency Risk Profile of the South-East Asia Region
Asia Pacific Observatory on Health Systems and Policies
The Asia Pacific Observatory on Health Systems and Policies (the APO) is a collaborative partnership of interested governments, international
    agencies, foundations, and researchers that promotes evidence-informed health systems policy regionally and in all countries in the Asia Pacific region.
APO Website  | Publications
Global Leprosy Programme
The Global Leprosy Programme (GLP) of the World Health Organization is housed in the WHO Regional Office for South-East Asia (and not in the Organization’s headquarters in Geneva). It is the Organization’s designated programme for addressing
        leprosy worldwide. Being classified as one of the 20 neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), the unit works in close collaboration with the Department of Control of NTDs in HQ, designated focal points in all regions, national leprosy programmes and
        partners.
Global Leprosy Programme Website
Evaluation Reports
Click here to view Evaluation reports
Polio-free certification of the WHO South-East Asia Region
Facebook
Publications
Find a publication →
Twitter
