https://www.who.int/westernpacific/
COVID-19
Ageing
Vaccines
Universal Health Coverage
Mental health
Tobacco
Antimicrobial resistance
Climate change
COVID-19 in the Region >>
COVID-19
Latest information on the outbreak in the Western Pacific


News
29 October 2020 | Feature story
Investing in mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of millions of people across the Western Pacific Region and around the world.
20 October 2020 | Feature story
WHO: COVID-19 must not derail tobacco cessation efforts
Many smokers in the Western Pacific Region have been prompted by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) to kick the habit, but the pandemic has also brought fresh challenges for the fight against tobacco.
9 October 2020 | News release
Region’s health ministers endorse action to promote access to vaccines, safe surgery and healthy ageing
Health ministers across the World Health Organization (WHO) Western Pacific Region endorsed action plans to improve access to life-saving vaccines and safe and affordable surgery and to promote healthy ageing.
6 October 2020 | Statement
Virtual press conference on the 71st session of the WHO Regional Committee in the Western Pacific
Good afternoon to the journalists who have joined us today, and people across the Region who are watching online. As you may know, the Western Pacific Region is one the six WHO regions, and it is home to around 1.9 billion people.
The Western Pacific Region is home to almost 1.9 billion people across 37 countries and areas.
WHO is working with governments and partners across the Western Pacific to make this the healthiest and safest Region.

Regional Director
Spotlight
People of the Western Pacific
For the future
A five year visionfor delivering better healthin the Western Pacific Region
Regional priorities 2020-25
In line with the regional vision "For the Future", four priorities must be addressed to reach our goal of making the Western Pacific the safest and healthiest region.
Featured activities
Preparing for pandemics
Raising awareness of immunization
Strengthening Pacific Health Systems
Monitoring country emergency preparedness
Publications
Guidance on COVID-19 for the care of older people and people living in long-term care facilities, other...
In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, this guidance provides information on infection and prevention control (‎IPC)‎, community preparedness, selfcare...
COVID-19 infection prevention and control : preparedness checklist for long-term care facilities
COVID-19 outbreaks in long-term care (‎LTC)‎ facilities can have devastating effects on the health and well-being of residents, as they are vulnerable...
Events
World Antimicrobial Awareness Week
18 to 24 November 2020
World AIDS Day
1 December 2020
