     Skip to Main Content
                                        FAQ - About Us
                        What is Dreamwidth Studios?                How can I report a bug?                How do I find information on scheduled maintenance or unplanned outages when Dreamwidth is down?                Where can I leave suggestions for site improvements?                Who works on Dreamwidth?                    
                » What is Dreamwidth Studios?
                                    Dreamwidth is an online home for creative people of all types. We're part social network, part blogging system, and part content management system — and our site is designed to be easy to use even if you don't know what any of those things are.You can share what you do easily on Dreamwidth, whether it's writing, artwork, essays, photography, poetry, or your life and dreams.  You can also find others who create the kinds of things you enjoy.  You can control who has access to what you create with our privacy settings.  You can join special interest communities on Dreamwidth.  Communities are where people who share an interest come together to discuss that interest with each other.  If you don't find one for what you're interested in, you can create it.We are an independent, Open Source, community-centric service. We support diversity in all its forms.
                Last Activity:
                August 30th, 2015 (kaberett)
                » How can I report a bug?
                                    If you find any bug anywhere on our site, we want to hear about it!Before you tell us about it, please check that it isn't something we already know about by reading our Current Issues FAQs and the Known Issues box on the Support page.If the bug you've found isn't listed in either of these places, please report it to us by opening a support request. Our support team will then check the issue and try to reproduce it, and then pass it onto our developers. If the bug has been reported before, they may also be able to help you out by providing a work-around for the problem.
                Last Activity:
                August 30th, 2015 (kaberett)
                » How do I find information on scheduled maintenance or unplanned outages when Dreamwidth is down?
                                    All planned site maintenance is announced in dw_maintenance ahead of time. All users should subscribe to this community.If the scheduled maintenance may have downtime, we do what we can to schedule it for a time of lower traffic. Our schedules may prevent that, though.We also use dreamwidth as an offsite status page, both to remind people of scheduled maintenance and to update people about the problem if the site is down unexpectedly. You should bookmark that page and check it when the site is down.During an outage, we try our best to update dreamwidth as quickly as possible with information about the cause of the problem and estimates about how quickly we'll have it fixed.We don't monitor the replies to dreamwidth. If you're having a problem or need general technical support, you should visit Support if you can reach the site. If the site is down for everyone, our automated alerts will notify us about it; you don't need to. If you're the only one who can't reach the site, you can email support@dreamwidth.org, or have a friend open a support request on your behalf.
                Last Activity:
                August 30th, 2015 (kaberett)
                » Where can I leave suggestions for site improvements?
                                    If you have a suggestion to make Dreamwidth a better place, we want to hear from you and have set up the Suggest an Improvement page.  When you fill out this form, it will post an entry into  the dw_suggestions moderation queue. When your suggestion's posted, it'll include a simple poll so people can register opinions quickly, and you'll be able to talk it over in the comments to the post.Having a suggestion get positive responses doesn't guarantee that it'll be implemented, but this makes it easier to migrate suggestions into our bugtracking database.  If your suggestion gets chosen for migration, it will eventually get added to the Dreamwidth codebase.
                Last Activity:
                August 30th, 2015 (kaberett)
                » Who works on Dreamwidth?
                                    You can meet our owners, our staff, and our community project leaders at our Staff Page.Dreamwidth runs thanks to the work of its community -- that means you! We need people to work on every aspect of running the site, from development to style creation to documentation to design and beyond. If you're interested in contributing, check out the list of official Dreamwidth communities, pick a project you'd like to get involved with, and check out the community. Or, you can contact the project leader.
                Last Activity:
                August 30th, 2015 (kaberett)
    Licensing
Back to the full FAQ list.
Return to the Search Page.
Need more help? Go to the Support Area.
    Log in
            Account name:
            Password:
             Remember me
            Other options:
              Forget your password?
              Log in with OpenID?
      ×
                    menu
  Log in
Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
InterestRegionSite and AccountFAQEmailIM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
