        Skip to Content
              Permissions
              Logos and Trademarks
              Entertainment and Media
              Sponsorship and Partners
              Products
              Support and FAQ
            Initiative
                Permissions
                Logos and Trademarks
                Entertainment and Media
                Sponsorship and Partners
                Products
                Support and FAQ
      Entertainment and Media
      All product placements of any Google logos or products in any media must be approved by us.
      If you want to show any Google logos, products, or elements of our product UI in any media (including TV, music videos, movies, etc.), the product placement must be approved by Google.
Please adhere to the logo usage guidelines and these entertainment guidelines, then submit your request in English through the entertainment release form below.
    Entertainment guidelines
        Our products must be featured in ways that are positive, authentic, inclusive, and empowering. Products must be depicted clearly, accurately, and in ways that are relatable to the everyday consumer.
            Placement
            The product placement must portray Google in a positive or neutral way.
            UI screens
            Products and screens must look and function like the actual product.
            Relatability
            Characters must use Google products and technology in a realistic and natural way.
            Inappropriate content
            Characters may not use Google products in association with crime, adult content, or other negative activities.
            Unrealistic settings
            Characters may not use technology in extreme or unrealistic settings, and technology may not be portrayed as fantastical, dangerous, or scary.
            Not for everyone
            Technology may not be portrayed as exclusionary or inaccessible to some types of people.
        Entertainment  release form
        If you would like to feature the Google logo or a Google product in a commercial, TV show, or film, please thoroughly read all of the guidelines on this site.
        We won't be able to review your request unless you provide the following:
                Synopsis
                A synopsis of the production
                Description
                A detailed description of how the Google product will be used
                Script
                A production script with any relevant script pages highlighted
                Mockup
                A visual mockup or screenshot of how the product will look on screen
        Google reserves the right to approve or deny any proposed use of any Google product. Please be patient as we have many requests. It can take up to 2 weeks for us to review and respond to your request.
Request approval
          Privacy
          Terms
          About Google
          Google Products
