            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            The Great Education Pendulum Swing of 2018
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
It’s a funny thing about pendulums. Once they switch direction, they go for a good while. And it looks like we’re in the midst of an implacable post-testing, post-accountability swing. Ideas that five years ago were hurting for oxygen are suddenly all the rage. Social and emotional learning and personalization are feeling the love, while the darlings of 2013—I’m looking at you, teacher evaluation—have been consigned to a box in the basement. Given the grisly denouement of a bunch of formerly beloved reforms, it’s easy to understand why those focused on the next wave might be tempted to turn the page and not look back. Yet, in doing so, they risk repeating some of the avoidable missteps that helped undo potentially promising reforms.
For instance, I recently spent a day in an intimate convening for a new effort focused on finding ways to rethink the use of time in schools. This is a terrific, commonsense, remarkably untapped opportunity. Yet the enterprise kept getting framed around an explicitly romantic notion of choose-your-own-adventure-style “student-centered” pedagogy. Now, don’t get me wrong: “student-centered” pedagogy is fine by me—it can work really well for some schools and for some kids, when it’s done skillfully. But it also has an unfortunate history of yielding chaos and dysfunction when done goofily. My concern was why a broad-based effort like this would bother taking sides in this divisive, age-old debate. And then, at day’s end, it turned out that the current plan was only to do this work in high-poverty schools. That was a head-scratcher, as the folks in charge said this was supposed to be universal, and that they didn’t intend for efforts to rethink time to be stigmatized or stamped only as a “gap-closing” reform.
When it comes to social and emotional learning, the Aspen Institute recently issued a heavily promoted “consensus” statement. The push for SEL is something that I, like just about every parent or teacher I know, endorse in principle. But Aspen’s document opened with five points of banal agreement (e.g., “Social, emotional, and academic development is for all students”), and then launched head-first into endorsing hotly contested notions like “restorative justice” and “culturally relevant” pedagogy. Now, reasonable people can (and do) disagree on the merits of these. Wrapping these ideologically charged reforms into an expert national “consensus,” though, forces those who have concerns about these strategies to look askance at the SEL agenda—when it might instead make clear that there’s room in the SEL coalition for those with diverse views on school discipline and instructional practice.
In personalized learning, the explosion of the gig economy, the siren song of AI, and the gleam of intriguing technology, have got lots of nice people fired up. Enthusiastic advocates, entrepreneurs, philanthropists, and governors are excited to birth a new era of learning. To help make this possible, they insist it’s time for states to stop letting concerns about student privacy get in the way when it comes to promoting personalized learning. Now, they know that some parent groups and right-wing bloggers have concerns, but when brainstorming on all this, the champions have trouble seeing this pushback as anything other than the maddening complaints of conspiracy-minded, parochial luddites.
This should all feel familiar from our long years with NCLB, teacher evaluation, the Common Core, and much else. Eager to seize on their “moment,” reformers tend to make the same mistakes time and again (if you want the long version of all this, check out Letters to a Young Education Reformer).
For example, reformers keep getting sucked into cultural clashes over pedagogy or philosophy even when their principles would seem to call for a more ecumenical stance. Why does this happen? Well, education is overstuffed with advocates, consultants, and ed-school experts eager to graft their own agendas onto popular new reforms. These folks have intense, sincerely held views, and many have been waiting for the opportunity to push their ideas forward. It’s only natural for them to rush forward to offer their assistance; but the result is that their beliefs color those larger efforts, frequently in ways that are unnecessary and unintentionally divisive.
Reformers have developed a 21st-century knack for reflexively focusing single-mindedly on high-poverty schools. This can unhelpfully narrow the reach of reform and the support for it, especially when there’s nothing uniquely “anti-poverty-ish” about the school-improvement strategy. After all, when large swaths of the nation decide that school improvement isn’t about their schools or their kids, it sabotages the opportunity to build a sustainable, broad-based coalition.
Would-be change agents tend to huddle with the rich and powerful who can “make things happen.” After all, there are coalitions to form, funds to raise, legislators to woo, conferences to attend, and only so many hours in a day. But this phenomenon fosters bubbles where reformers wind up tone-deaf to how parents and educators perceive what’s being offered. And all this high-level activity can signal to families that self-assured, far-off elites are doing this stuff to them—rather than with them.
While there’s a frustrating inevitability about schooling’s pendulum swings, it’s not inevitable that aspiring reformers will repeat yesterday’s miscues. As they look ahead, here’s hoping they make copious use of the rearview mirror.
— Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated April 3, 2018
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Evidence-Based Reforms in College Remediation Are Gaining Steam – and So Far Living Up to the Hype
            April 2, 2018
            Next Article
            EdStat: Between 2011 and 2015, Reading Scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress Improved in 19 States
            April 4, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Educators’ Time Loss and the Invisible Cost of Reform
		by Frederick Hess
		Plain Talk and School Reform
		by Frederick Hess
		Warren Buffett, Ping-Pong, and School Reform
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
