            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            The Patriots and the ‘Unpopular Stuff’ of Excellence
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
            It says something (though I’m not sure what) that we’re just days from the Super Bowl, and yet that overhyped colossus is barely on the radar screen—swamped by fights over executive orders, the Supreme Court, Cabinet appointees, Trump’s tweets, and all the rest. At such times it can be helpful—it may even be important—for us Beltway types to seek a bit of perspective by looking outside of Washington. So let’s do that today.
A couple weeks ago, I observed that the New England Patriots and the Houston Texans reflected very different organizational philosophies after the Patriots whomped up on the Texans in a playoff game. The victorious Pats players talked about what they should’ve done better; the losing Texans about how they really played well enough to win.
The column spurred a number of interesting responses, including one from the ever-thoughtful Mike Goldstein (founder of Boston’s MATCH Charter School), who offered some thoughts on the challenges of cultivating educational excellence. Of the Patriots, Goldstein noted, “In addition to relentless focus on execution and some apple pie-type stuff, there are some parts of their program that are simply ‘unpopular but important.’ In No Excuses schools, this would include actually enforcing a code of conduct, which blue-tribe people HATE to hear about if you’re explaining what makes a ‘KIPP-type school’ succeed.”
Goldstein added, “For the Pats, one ‘unpopular but important’ component is [that] Belichick is the most aggressive guy in the NFL at firing people, even midseason. He has dismissed a ton of extremely talented players (Jamie Collins this year, considered their top defensive player)—because the guy’s effort had diminished, and he was creating a bad tone in the locker room. All the commentators HATE how Bill gets rid of established players—[it’s] unpopular but important.”
There are a few critical insights here worth pulling out. And they seem especially timely as the Patriots prepare to play for the championship before 100 million viewers on Sunday.
One is that it matters why someone is disliked. There are leaders who are disliked because they are arrogant, self-serving, or mean. But there are also leaders who attract criticism because they are doing the hard, unpleasant work of addressing ineptitude and setting a high bar for performance. Way too much journalism and popular discussion lumps these together. The result: one leader is cast as visionary and tough-minded just because he’s obnoxious, while another steps up to tackle stubborn problems and is labeled abrasive for her trouble. Unless and until we’re sorting that out, we’re going to reward the wrong things and the wrong leaders.
Two, in any organized endeavor, whether that be football or schooling, it is professional culture that is the key to excellence. But it is policies, norms, and expectations that help forge a culture. As I wrote a number of years ago in Cage-Busting Leadership, “Culture does not exist in a vacuum. This is what critics of teacher evaluation and the defenders of tenure miss when they insist that reform proposals are ‘attacks’ on the profession. These measures are tools for creating a more responsible and professional culture. (Now, like any tool, they can be used well or poorly.)” What Belichick has done is ruthlessly and relentlessly created the conditions for a culture of excellence.
Three, there’s a key lesson here for efforts to “take things to scale.” There’s a natural, healthy desire to want to replicate promising models that seem to “work”—and a temptation to do so by mimicking the easy parts. Hire more great teachers? Check. Use new technology? Check. Embrace professional learning communities and project-based learning? Check. Sign overpriced, recognizable stars? Check. Use new, cool-sounding lingo in the offensive game plan? Check. The problem is that this stuff is fine, but it’s all pretty epiphenomenal. It’s the same kind of stuff that dozens of football teams enthusiastically do while posting mediocre results year after year. When one gets caught up in fancy new jargon and strategies, it’s easy to overlook the simple, difficult stuff of culture-building—the cutting of a talented player because of his deteriorating attitude or the importance of unyielding expectations governing behavior and performance. This stuff can be unpopular, unpleasant, and even controversial. So it’s much easier to do the catchy, easy-to-like stuff—even if it misses what’s important, yielding a culture of mediocrity.
—Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated February 3, 2017
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            A Federal Scholarship Tax Credit: The Only Fifty-State School-Choice Option
            February 2, 2017
            Next Article
            How the U.S. Department of Education Can Foster Education Reform in the Era of Trump and ESSA
            February 6, 2017
We Recommend You Read
		The Patriots, Texans, and School Reform
		by Frederick Hess
		A Cage-Busting Curriculum for Teachers
		by Frederick Hess
		The 2019 Edu-Scholar Public Influence Scoring Rubric
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
