JavaScript is required to view this site.    Log inSign up                    this might be a repeat&lt;&gt;
                    Most recentMost popularMost recentFilter by post typeAll postsTextPhotoQuoteLinkChatAudioVideoAskGrid ViewList Viewanonymous asked:"Now that you're dating mum, I should warn you that one of my classmates already thinks I'm your secret love child."Toshinori (still had to get used to not calling him All Might) spit out a mixture of blood and coffee. “Could…could you repeat that?”“Well, we have ‘similar quirks’,” Izuku used air quotes. “My Dad’s never seen or heard from, there’s not even a picture, and yet Mom’s still married. Add in the level of familairity you show me and the fact that I look so much like my mom my Dad could be anyone….Todoroki-kun probably isn’t to only one who’s come to that conclusion.““Wish it were true,” Inko muttered.        
                            phantoms-lair                        FollowUnfollowBNHAGhost WritingAnonymous28 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
More doods cause that’s all I have to offer lately h a h        
                            franeridart                        FollowUnfollowbakushimakiribakuboku no hero academiamy hero academiamy sketchessorta inspired by the song infra-red by three days gracesince i was listening to it on more or less on repeatlately it's my new fav song when i wanna cry over these two ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHone day i might draw something properly inspired by itmaybe7,794 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Alright last one for now…        
                            salamispots                        FollowUnfollowartists on tumblrmermaidwatercolormight be needing to invest in a scanner soon instead of taking pictures with my phone hahaand also thanks all you peeps who've been submitting things hahaso yeahrequest awaysidenote for peeps asking stuff repeats are a-okaymerfolk2,671 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
My Eternal Rival! My Man of Destiny! My Youthful Friend! My Beloved Partner! My-!!!!
                            viktormaru                        FollowUnfollowkakagaikakashi hatakemaito gaimight guynarutoi was listening to あの娘シークレット on repeat while drawing thiswaffle art1,954 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Get You The Moon (M)        Pairing | Taehyung x ReaderGenre | Fluff, smut, angst / College!AU, enemies to lovers!AU, football!AU,  jock!Taehyung x student reporter!OC Warnings | Explicit language, sarcastic banter, dirty talk, blowjob, facefucking, eating out, cumplay, cum-dumpster, fingering, rough sex, slight dom!tae, spanking, degradation, unprotected sex, ass-pining, tae has the phattest ass and dick but wbkSummary | Life has its ways of fucking with you, but you know you’ve hit 50 feet below rock bottom after being tasked to do a profile feature on Kim Taehyung, the varsity football captain, for your school newspaper. Pure torment awaits you, but this is alongside glassy eyes, pink cheeks and conflicted feelings that you’ve never dared to imagine with the likes of the devil incarnate.Word count | 19.6k “What a surprise, you’re alive.”It is exactly that fake enthusiasm and subtle mirthful nuance that’s too familiar to your liking that gives rise to the arch of your eyebrow. You don’t even need to look up at the owner of the voice to picture the shit-eating smirk that belongs to none other than your editor-in-chief-slash-best-friend, Min Yoongi. Such morbid greetings have been long established as an inside joke between the two of you due to the peculiar sense of humour that you two share. This is just how he likes to start his mornings. Being the systematic person he is, he has his own morning routine in the newsroom. Regardless of the pile of work on his desk, he’ll first make a beeline for his first cup of coffee of the day, after which he will come sauntering your way to provoke you with his laundry list of snarky remarks – about work, being tired, being alive and dead, about how bureaucracy sucks, the negative sides of capitalism and what not. Well, you two share a deep-seated sense of misanthropy so albeit provocative, his laments are refreshing in the morning – a literal morning boost of positivity from negativity. “Not for long buddy,” you shrug, looking up from your laptop and your eyes land on Yoongi, who looks just as dead. “I barely slept last night – was busy rushing my essays. Essays, might I repeat. So it would be great if you don’t have much for me today, although I know you have a kink for torturing me.”At this, the edges of his lips curl up and you instantly register the meaning behind the sinister smile: your impending doom. “I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I do have something for my most talented and gung-ho reporter and best friend.”“Kindly elaborate,” you smile back acrimoniously, squinting your eyes in distrust. “It involves a profile feature of a popular varsity athlete.”An involuntary groan escapes your lips almost instantly. Athletes are the worst people to interview. “That’s not even the worst part yet. As we’re celebrating the 50th anniversary of our publication this year, we’ll be doing a special spread on honorary members of the school, including club presidents, captains and valedictorians. Oh, which reminds me – maybe I should feature myself for being the most overworked Editor-In-Chief because this publication is sucking my entire soul, but anyway, I digress.” He brings up his mug to his lips. It’s only 10am, but you wonder how many cups he has had, eyeing the pallor of his face. “I’ve already assigned the other reporters their respective targets for the lack of a better word, and left the toughest nut for you to crack,” he grins smugly and that’s when it hits you. Clocking you square in the face. “Yoongi, no you didn—”“Yoongi, yes,” his smirk widens at your aghast expression, “A profile feature on Kim Taehyung, for my most talented and hardworking reporter.”Kim Taehyung. Your biggest nemesis. The boy who lives to torment you.   Keep reading        
                            bymoonchild                        FollowUnfollowbts ficsbangtan ficstaehyung ficsbts smuttaehyung smutbangtan smutbts scenariostaehyungbangtanbtskim taehyungbangtan fanficstaehyung fanficstaehyung fluffbts fluffbangtan fluffbangtan scenariosbts enemies to loverse2lbts footballjock taehyungf: get you the moonbymoonchild7,490 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            STAY Ch 12        Thank you to @sassenachwaffles for your tireless cheerleading of my half-baked ideas, and to @missclairebelle- I know I interupted a bubble bath with a late night panic attack over the end of this chapter. Words just aren’t enough for you both.Mood MusicChapter 1Chapter 2Chapter 3Chapter 4Chapter 5Chapter 6Chapter 7Chapter 8Chapter 9Chapter 10Chapter 11AO3Previously“Jamie… for so long I’ve never felt like I belonged.” She paused, taking a breath
before continuing. Her voice was quiet, but steady, “My parents and I- we did travel quite a bit. Boston never
really felt like home- it was just a place to land for a spell before we were
off to the next adventure.”His mind conjured images of his own childhood. The large stone buildings and secret passages through the
woods that carved and molded his memories. The very stone walls of Lallybroch
had been home, at least long ago. He’d
always imagined being Laird, with his lady by his side. A mix of tradition and
adolescent daydreams that had once seemed like the logical step in his life’s
trajectory. It had been an all but foregone conclusion until a dark night and
the sound of twisted metal that scattered his future to the wind… until now.Her fingers found his hand and intertwined her fingers with
his, “Home- it’s always been an idea,
but not a place for me, Jamie.”Home. Loving her was now
home to him. The weight of her hand in his anchored him to the bench as he
struggled to keep a clear mind. “What is home to ye now, Sassenach?”Golden amber glowed in the early evening sun. “Home to me…
is you, Jamie.”Keep reading        
                            kkruml                        FollowUnfollowstay ficoutlanderfan ficoutlander fan ficoutlander fan fictionjamie x clairethe music was tough this weekthis might be a repeat267 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
8So why do they call you ‘Doc’?Why do they call you a repeat offender?Because I am one.Well, there’s your answer.                         I’m going to give you my own nickname                        You know you have the right to remain silent?                        Can I call you ‘Bones’?                        No.                        You know I’d make a hell of a CI.                        CI? Why, because you’re certifiably insane?                        Aw. Love you too, Bones.Why do you want to be a CI anyways?Can’t a guy have a job?Ha. Like you need a job. Your watch costs nearly as much as I make in a year.‘Course you stole it.Actually I bought it.With money you stole.Allegedly. AU McKirk: The Detective &amp; Repeat Offender 1/?        
                            marvelousandproud                        FollowUnfollowStar TrekJim KirkLeonard McCoyMcKirkMcKirk: The Detective &amp; Repeat OffenderYES I WILL DO MORE AND WRITE FANFIC OF THIS FYI--been asked a lot XDPics and gifs edited by meMy editsUgh couldnt get the coloring to match on the gifsbut I'm done tryingHaven't seen Almost Human yet ormight have made it Almost Humanish1,178 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
practice with a random qunari oc        
                            tropicoola                        FollowUnfollowdragon agefun fact!! i had barbie movie music playing on repeat in the backgroundmyartmight delete this?? we'll see951 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
9jin x some of my favorite casual looks        
                            seokjinyoongis                        FollowUnfollowwhile doing this i thought of two other looks to do rip memight see one or two of these looks repeathyunglinenetworkarmiesnetnetworkbangtanjinseoknetbangtangifsbangtanarmynetipurpleunetmineseokjinksjlooks500778 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            10 Profound “Adventure Time” Quotes        I’m absolutely gutted that my favorite television program is ending, so to ease the pain, I’ve collected a handful of my absolute favorite Adventure Time quotes. I make no argument that these are objectively the most profound, or that the order I’ve put them in is correct, but I feel they show the show’s emotional and philosophical depth.Runner-Up. “—And we care about him, you dingus!” – Marceline, “Islands Pt. I: The invitation”This quote isn’t that profound from a philosophical point of view, but it does illustrate one of my favorite parts of the show: the deep, familial love the main characters have developed for one another as the seasons have worn on. It’s quite telling that Marceline is the one assuring Finn and Jake that she and Bubblegum care for them, as she started out as a minor antagonist who kicked our heroic duo out of their home and very nearly killed them in the resulting fight. But by the time that Islands rolls around, it is obvious that she thinks of them almost like her younger brothers—and they think of her like an older sister.10. “Are you just a two-headed pile of meat on a crash course with the cosmic
 dump? Or do you contain the sole memory of a million dead stars?” – The Sun, “Something Big”Originally posted by ethrealconsciousnessIt’s a testament to the show’s wackiness that one of the quotes on my list is courtesy of the Sun (yes, that Sun). This quote is perhaps one of the show’s most existential: are we just meat and bones doomed to die? Or are we all walking miracles—sentient start-dust people who can think and dream and create? I lean towards the latter interpretation. As an aside, this quote reminds me of another I often see shared on social media: “You’re a ghost driving a meat coated skeleton made from stardust. What do you have to be afraid of?” Existentialism can be scary, but sometimes, quotes like these make you take pause and consider how truly astonishing existence is.9. “Everything repeats over and over again. No one learns anything, because no one lives long enough to see the pattern.” – Marceline, “Stakes Pt. VII: Checkmate”Originally posted by ghostbubblegumStakes—a delightful miniseries heavily indebted to the existential philosophy of Nietzsche—sees Marceline agonize over the freedom of the Unknown or the certainty of Fate. In the seventh episode, Marceline bemoans the fact that everything in this world repeats over and over again, and as an immortal being, she is doomed to watch the world fail to learn from its mistakes. It’s true: there is nothing new under the sun. But by the end of the miniseries, our heroine has learned a very important lesson—while history might repeat itself over and over again, that does not mean we should resign ourselves to defeat. We should learn from the lessons of the past and make tomorrow better, even if it might seem like an impossible task.8. “Something weird might just be something familiar viewed from a different angle” – Marceline’s mom, “Stakes Pt. II: Everything Stays”Originally posted by youmatteredHumans are wired to instinctively be leery about things that are weird or unfamiliar. it’s a big reason we have so much trouble with racism and xenophobia. But Marceline’s mom is absolutely right: sometimes, those things that seems the weirdest or scariest might not be that different from ‘normal’ things that we’re used to. Often, we just have to get familiar with the ‘weirdness’, and that fear will quickly dissipate.7. “Let’s always be stupid, forever!” – Finn, “My Two Favorite People”Originally posted by sapphirerose818There’s no reason to be so serious all the time. Sometimes you just gotta embrace the silliness in life.6. “Your eyeballs think the sky is blue, but that’s just sun rays farting apart in the barf of our atmosphere. The sky is black.” – BMO, “Islands, Pt. IV: Imaginary Resources”Originally posted by nacapitoWhile BMO’s quote is somewhat nihilistic in the context of the episode, the ideas that it expresses—namely, that the qualitative experiences that sentient creatures experience do not represent actual reality—is quite an interesting one. Is there an objective reality that we can access? It seems that we’re always blinded (if you will) to the Real by the mediation that our senses require. And hey, it’s not everyday that you get to hear someone say “sun rays farting apart”.5. “Homies help homies. Always.” – Finn, “Her Parents”Originally posted by giffity-gif-gifThis is one of the simplest morals that Adventure Time has ever impressed upon its viewers. If your pal really needs help, you should be there for them—otherwise, you’re just a fair-weather friend. Sometimes helping out is not going to be easy… in fact, sometimes, it is going to be downright unpleasant. But if they are your homie, and they really need a hand, you gotta show them that you care for them.4. “Dude, suckin’ at somethin’ is the first step towards bein’ sorta good at somethin’.” – Jake the Dog, “His Hero”Originally posted by lospaziobiancoThis is perhaps one of the most-quoted lines from the show, and it’s not hard to see why. Many are under the impression that people who are good at things (e.g. art, writing) were born that way. This is very rarely the case; most people who have a talent have honed their skills over years of hard work, and you can bet that almost all of them started at the very, very bottom. If we only pursue those things that we are instantly good at, we will a) never really grow as a person, b) probably not be very good at very much. All things with practice.3. “When bad things happen, I know you want to believe they are a joke, but sometimes life is scary and dark. That is why we must find the light.” – BMO, “The Creeps”Originally posted by arekinsasThe sad reality is that life can be bleak and downright horrifying. Between war, famine, disease, poverty, oppressive political systems, etc., life can get pretty sucky. But if we stick together and collectively try to find the light, we can make existence just a little bit more pleasant. For many people Adventure Time was that light, which allowed us to momentarily escape the horrors of this world and escape into a place where small little elephants make apple pies and talking robots can marry bubbles. That light will be missed!2. “People get built different. We don’t need to figure it out, we just need to respect it.” – Bubblegum, “Bonnie &amp; Neddy”Originally posted by zelderonmorningstarNot everyone functions the same way. Neddy, for instance, has social anxiety issues and the only 
place he feels safe is in the bottom of the castle, nibbling on the 
Candy Kingdom’s central tree. Princess Bubblegum loves her brother and wants the best for him, so she accommodates his needs. This is a very important lesson, especially in today’s interconnected and highly intersectional world. We’re all humans, but we’re not all the same. We have different needs and wants. Different beliefs. We think different. We act different. We don’t need to homogenize these differences—we just need to note and respect them. If we can all do that, it’ll make everything a lot nicer.1. “JAAAAAAAMES BAXTER!” – James Baxter, “James Baxter the Horse”Originally posted by mcbiteypantspresentsIt just makes everyone happy!        
                            gunterfan1992                        FollowUnfollowadventure timeatimersseason 10finalecome along with memarcelinebmojake the dogjakefinn the humanfinnprincess bubblegumbubblegumlady rainicornrebecca sugarMarceline the Vampire Queenjames baxter4,588 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
russetfur1128  asked:I found a song that Sarah Stiles sings called the Broken Record and I can just picture Spinel singing it to her s/oJHSGJFDGKDF OKAY IM GUSHING OVER THIS!! LITERALLY LOOKED UP THE SONG TO LISTEN TO IT AND MELTED PLEASE LISTEN TO IT GUYSShe would totally sing that to her s/o!! Like you guys are dancin n stuff and she starts singing to you while spinning you around and holding you close!!also a lil sketch to go with!! i can’t do the song any justice but i still wanted to draw something x]        
                            flowerfort                        FollowUnfollowspinelspinel x readercanon x ocself insertsteven universe[ speaks / talks ]my art[ asks ]LITERALLY LISTENING TO IT ON REPEATIT'S JUSTGOOOD HHHthank you for suggesting that song!!!!IM IN LOVE WITH ITalso sorry it's just a sketch today!!its late and im sleepy so i gotta head to sleepbut i might do more on this!!anyway night night!! :D1,022 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
10Kate x Rana: every kiss up until 16th
April 2018(companion piece: every hug gifset here)+  18th April+ 27th April+ 18th May+ 20th August+ 5th November+26th November+30th November+ 17th December+ 31st December+ 6th March 2019+ 7th March 2019+ 13th March 2019+ 15th March 2019+ 18th March 2019        
                            wayhaught-observations                        FollowUnfollowthings not wayhaughtkate x ranakate connorrana nazirbhavna limbachiafaye brookescorriewatching this on repeat (as you do)for scienceit's interesting to notice that they have developed quite a distinct way of kissing each otherI also might be a wee bit obsessed with Bhavna's lipsand yes these are looooong running gifsalso yesthis is a really long post789 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Things You Can Do When You Know How To Sew        - Make everything fit your body first and foremost, not the department store mannequin and also kind of your body- Mend things. Patch jeans, replace buttons, fix popped seams and broken bag straps, darn socks (okay, darning is a slightly different skill, but still)…your clothing can actually last more than six months. Imagine that!- Make that really cool thing you saw in a store, but in high-quality fabric. Did I mention it can also fit like a dream? I did? Well, it bears repeating. The fabric might be more expensive, but it’ll actually hold up for a decent length of time, unlike a dress from Zara or wherever.- Reuse bits of a thing that’s too damaged/big/small to keep wearing. If it’s too big, you could even cut it down into a whole new garment.- P O C K E T S. Add them to everything. Fuck letting designers tell us we can’t have them.- Make a crop top that says “Big Chungus.” Why? I don’t know. You tell me. There are no rules. You can copy the craziest runway fashion you’ve ever seen. You can make a silk penguin onesie. You can go mad with sartorial power and ascend, godlike, into the astral realms. NO KINGS. NO MASTERS. ONLY SEWING.In conclusion, screw fast fashion and screw this system that makes sewing a difficult skill to acquire, leaving us powerless over the garments we live our lives in.        
                            marzipanandminutiae                        FollowUnfollowsewingI’m lucky I was able to learn to sewit was taught as part of my college theatre programand from there I just used YouTube tutorialsand the advice of Sewing Friendsthe internet is helping make the knowledge available to more people thankfully3,382 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Girl Talk TimeTime to share some knowledge i acquired over the years. Some background story, when i first got my period my mom did a terrible job at giving me “the talk” so in that moment i realized that i have to teach myself stuff with the help of my friends and the internet.Now i’m sharing this knowledge because i’m 100% there are more people who don’t know at least 1 thing from these.Have a necessities bag/kit that you carry with you everywhereWhat should you have in it you might ask?- mouth spray, mouth wash, toothbrush and toothpaste, gum, mints etc =&gt; really, just something to refresh your breath or clean your teeth in a hurry- pads/tampons/whatever you like to use=&gt; friendly reminder, buy pads/tampons for 2-3 months because you never really know 100% when it’s going to come, especially in the beginning (by beginning i mean 2 years because most of my friends and i needed 2 years to have a pattern for our period)- panties liners=&gt; now, if you don’t know what this is, shortly, you don’t need to be on your period to have discharges and these liners take care of that; they’re thinner than pads (note, they’re not pads! so they’re not used for periods) and they usually come in packs of 15-30 so you have for the entire month- perfume or body spray=&gt; this is if you want (and are concerned a lot) about your perfume- tissues- unscented wipes=&gt; why unscented? because you might have to clean yourself real quick sometimes and scented stuff are not good for your private parts and since we have this mature talk and share of information, wipes are better than tissues when you have to clean your ass and this is important in case you wear white clothes, are out on a date with someone etc.- hair ties and a comb- lip balm=&gt; this is such an essential thing when you have chapped lips, especially during winter- band-aids- deodorant=&gt; now, everyone sweats; i’d wish girls were some sort of unicorn that never had this problem but nope so it’s important to have wipes and deodorant for this problem- mini nail kit=&gt; if you have long nails, you need this; i have long nails and sis, i broke them so many times out of the blue and all day until i came home i kept thinking of how bad they look so find a kit for nails or built yourself one Oh, if you want to have an extra pair of underwear in it, that would be great. If you worry about how many stuff there is, you can get travel size things. Many supermarkets have mini toothbrushes, mini tooth paste, mini deodorant etc. Let’s move to the next point, periods.- there’s nothing wrong with you if it takes you longer to get yours- there’s also nothing wrong with you if your flow is not similar to someone else’s; everyone is different so don’t feel bad for how your body deals with itself, it’s nothing personal- no period is 100% every single time; you can’t be forever moody, you can’t cry every time etc. some people repeat the same signs but some change, i might cry today that you ate my snacks but tomorrow i might be having cramps etc. not think everything will repeat the same every time- talking about cramps, find a way to deal with them; some likes to take pain killers, others fill a bottle with warm water and keep it near their tummy; i basically roll into a ball and stay on my side or go out and walk for hours because that helps me- your period will mess up your underwear so have a set of nice, not period time underwear and a set of i can live without you set for when you get the period- talking about underwear, if you want to clean it and get the stains fast, don’t use warm/hot water because somehow that makes the stain get into the fabric even more, nope, nope, you don’t want this- change the pads/tampons as often as possible otherwise the smell builds up and you might end up in a very embarrassing situation- if you use pads, try the night ones during day time; they tend to be longer so you have less chances of staining your underwear or not placing the pad properlyNext on our list is, smell. Let’s be blunt, we all smell. Every human has an individual smell but what you might not know is that you can influence it. Now, let’s get with some diet suggestions.fruits will make you smell and taste sweet (i said taste because of sex, yes, you figured it out, congrats!); pineapple is one of the fastest one to change the smell i thinknow, alcohol makes you smell bad so be moderate with itfor foods that you should reduce (i say reduce because you can’t cut out all these things and maybe they’re your favorite so keep it to small amounts) red meat, onions, garlic, asparagus, cabbage, broccoli (and everything from the family of broccoli and cabbage), milk (yogurt is fine though), fish and spices like curry. They have chemicals that influence your smell in a bad way so avoid or reduce the intake of theseherbal tea is better than coffee; anything with caffeine influences you but let’s be real, many drink coffee to be awake and functional so keep it to a minimumas a rule of the thumb, stick with fruits and veggies as much as you can, things that go bad fast you knowdrink water, this is for helping your digesting system, improve your skin, getting rid of toxins and if your pee is smelling/have a dark colour, you need water, a lot of itLast topic, sex. Now, i can’t add many things to this since i’m a virgin so if any of my followers want to add to it, feel free to do so. I’ll just add things that i’ve read and was told so far.30min-1h after sleeping with someone, you go and pee because this reduces the chances of you getting  urinary tract infectionshave your own condoms, especially if you have some sort of allergy, you know your body bestthere’s no such thing as “i’m too big”, there are Nth videos on youtube with people putting basket balls in condoms so don’t worry, they’re elasticif you plan to sleep with someone, have a contraceptive method decided and not only the condom; during sex ed. in high school the lady kept saying how this is not a 100% method to avoid getting pregnant (but tbh, there isn’t 1 method that is so try 2, like condom and pill (edit: sterilization seems to be one of the best contraceptive methods but you can’t have kids after so that’s important to be kept in mind)there’s this myth that virgins can’t get pregnant the first time, that’s a myth so if a guy tries to sell you this bs, ask him if he’s prepared to be a dad just in case he’s wrongYeah, this is all i have. I hope i helped at least 1 person out there. Additions from my anonsSomething I would like to add to your Girl’s Talk post: It is normal for teenagers to get headaches more often than adults or children. But if they are a daily occurrence, cause you to go blind/etc then you should talk to your doctor. For the past year I had headaches often and I thought there was something wrong (there isn’t luckily). And it’s okay to talk to someone (therapist/etc) even if you’re not mentally ill. And if you do talk to someone make sure you feel comfortable around them.Boundaries are important. It is NOT okay for parents to walk into your room whenever they want. While you do live with them you are still a human being and should be treated as such. It’s okay to have “me time”. Tell your family you would like to spend some time alone. Your parents shouldn’t be going through your phone daily and hounding you down about it. It is abusive if your family does any of these things. On Tumblr there is a list for signs your parents are abusive (and helpful blogs!)about the girl talk I would like to suggest couple of things based on personal experiences! Virginity loss doesn’t happen only with penetration! For example I lost mine while riding a bike, hitting a bump and sitting back on the saddle weirdly // also dont know if it’s common but it may happen that you end up finding jelly-like substances on your panties because your body is excreting it; nothing to worry about if they’re transparent but if they aren’t please go to a medic and get checked out!! I would like to add that your first time having sex should not hurt! It is a myth that loss of virginity should hurt, the vagina can expand such an incredible amount, and if you’re with a person with a penis that is penetrating you and it hurts, please ask them to stop, use lube, change positions, go slower or do some foreplay because it truly should not hurt. However, there are conditions where penetrative sex always hurts (vaginismus, which makes even a tampon or finger hurt). Don’t mislead people, first sex hurts for many people and it’s normal, too. Even several times after that can hurt, and with enough times you might expand and it will stop hurting. True story. (the reason I’m sharing this is that people might think there’s something wrong with them if it hurts - just know it’s very normal, just do all you can to minimize the pain)for the girl talk post: for years i stained my bedsheets with blood bc my period is quite heavy and i only use pads but then i realised i could just use adult diapers and since then i have not had any problems with staining (i’ll admit that it was kind of embarrassing to buy them in the beginning, but that passed)GirlTalk 1. If you decide to shave down there, don’t shave against the grain! That can result in pain, ingrown hairs, etc. Shave with the grain. Also, if it’s really hairy down there, you can start with scissors to give the razor a chance. Rinse the razor a lot so it doesn’t get clogged! 2. I personally get like no warning before my period starts. No cramps or anything. If this is the case with you, I’d recommend an app called Flo! It’ll track your period and you can even set up reminders! (1/?) (2/?) 3. Periods drain you of blood and therefore iron. You may want to eat foods higher in iron on days close to your period.  4. Try to wear looser clothes during your period! It may keep you from getting as sick. If you get nauseous, ginger tea may help.  5. If your period starts and you don’t have tampons or pads, you can ask a friend. Other women may have an extra!  6. Remember periods aren’t a problem. Don’t let anyone tease you. 
If you want to add this to your girl talk post, which is great btw, it may help someone Oral birth control -if you choose to take it- can help regulate your period and minimize cramps, but antibiotics often make them ineffective, meaning you can get pregnant. Always ask your doctor. Don’t feel bad reminding them that you are on birth control, they are human and don’t always remember to tell you.
Loved your girl talk time post! I wanted to add, if you are too embarrassed to talk about protection with the person you want to have sex with before having sex with them, you probably aren’t ready to have sex with that person.        
                            lovelybluepanda                        FollowUnfollowgirl talknot language relatedstudyblrhygenehygeinehygenicwomenfemalegirlsteenagerwomansexsex edschoolhigh schooluniversitycollegetipshacksadvicestudent lifestudent tipscareloveself helpself careself loveknowledgecommon sensebasics4,464 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Paper HeartsTags: One-shot, Eighth Year, Oblivious!Harry, origamiWord count: 1.6 kRating: Teen..Harry
stared down at the pink paper crane sitting in the centre of an empty
desk. Every edge was sharp and perfect, without a single wrinkle or
funny fold. He touched one wing, tipping it with the weight of his
fingertip. It was beautiful. And delicate. And familiar.	“Harry!
You coming?” Ron shouted.	Hermione
called from further down the hall, her voice faint and fading, “We’re
going to be late for Charms!” 
	Harry
hesitated and then picked up the crane, folding it flat and slipping
it into his textbook.	He
had entirely forgotten about the origami until a week later when he
found another, a butterfly made of shimmery purple paper. Harry took
it with him, and that night he took the crane out of his textbook and
set them both on his nightstand. They were blurry when he took his
glasses off, turning his head to look at them as he fell asleep. For
the first time in ages, he slept well and woke without any lingering
nightmares clouding his mind.	After
that, he developed a habit of scanning the desks of every class for
delicate paper things. He collected cranes, flowers, birds and
butterflies in every colour imaginable, on paper that glittered or
faded into soft pastels or were printed with subtle patterns.	It
wasn’t exactly a mystery as to who was making them; Draco wasn’t
trying to hide his work. He folded them in class when the Professors
were lecturing, his quill enchanted to take notes for him as his long
pale fingers manipulated the small squares of paper. 
	Harry
was lucky that Hermione took impeccable notes because once he saw
Draco start folding, he found himself utterly transfixed. The making
of the origami was somehow just as soothing as the finished creation.
	As
weeks passed, Draco began trying new things, foxes, fish, more
intricate birds and a dragon made of red paper that shifted like a
flickering flame under the light. Harry’s nightstand became so
crowded that pieces were constantly at risk of tumbling to the
ground, but he couldn’t bring himself to get rid of even one. 
	It
wasn’t until Luna came up to him, an origami wolf folded out of
black paper sprinkled with silver stars balanced on her outstretched
palm, saying, “Draco left this in ancient runes.” that he
realized, not only was the entire Gryffindor tower aware of his
collection- and where it came from- but it was quickly spreading to
the whole school. When other students, some he didn’t even
recognise, came up to give him one of Draco’s origami he wanted to
die of embarrassment, but he couldn’t bring himself not to take it.	“So,”
Ron said with a sigh as Harry fished a paper elephant from his bag to
add to his collection, “you fancy the prat?”	Harry’s
froze, “I- what?”	Ron
gave him a look, “Come on, mate. This whole thing is… a bit much
for anything else.”	“I
fancy him?” Harry repeated blankly.	Ron
shrugged, “I might be wrong of course.”	Harry
brushed his thumb along the folded little zigzag of the elephants
truck, a flush creeping up his neck.	“Well…think
about it, I guess,” Ron said, giving his shoulder a tight squeeze,
“but you really need to do something about all that origami, mate.”	“What?”
Harry said defensively.	Ron
sighed, “They don’t fit on your nightstand anymore, and yesterday
you nearly throttled Seamus because he stepped on one that fell on
the ground.”	Harry
frowned, furious all over again, “Well he should have watched where
he was walking.”	“Mate-”	“He
leaves his shite all over the floor, and we don’t step on his
things!” Harry said.	“Because we kick them out of the way,” Ron said pointedly.“Well that doesn’t ruin them.” Ron shook his head and fished a small spool of
thread out of his bag, tossing it to Harry.Harry snatched it out of the air. “I asked mum to send it,” Ron said, “There’s plenty of room in the canopy of your bed, we’ll just hang them
up, yeah?”	Harry nodded gratefully, “Thanks, Ron.”..	Draco
pulled him aside a few days later.	“What
do you want?” Draco asked, his mouth pressed into a thin line.	“Nothing?”
Harry blurted, his heart beginning to race.	“I’ve
heard-” Draco frowned and took a deep breathe, trying again, “I
heard that you’ve been taking all my origami.”	Harry
swallowed hard.	“I
thought we were on good terms now, Potter. We talked. Apologised.
We’re- We are fine. Aren’t we?” Draco said, fighting to keep his
voice even.	“Yeah,
of course,” Harry said.	Draco’s
frown deepened, “What are you doing? Why are you-? ”	“I
just… like them,” Harry floundered.	“You
like them,” Draco repeated.	Harry
nodded.	“Liar,”
Draco said.	“It’s
true.”	Draco
shook his head, “It’s not- I can’t believe you.”	“I’ll
show you then,” Harry said impulsively.	Draco
hesitated and narrowed his eyes, “Fine.”	Harry’s
whole face felt hot enough to fry an egg but he couldn’t back down,
not now, not with Draco, “Err…they’re in my dorm.”	“I
knew you were a liar.”	“It’s
not an excuse!” Harry said, “I’m just saying I’ll have to
take you through the Gryffindor tower to show you.”	Draco
stared at him, wavering on the balls of his feet. Then he clenched
his jaw, “Show me.”	Harry
had hardly made it up the first staircase when his confidence began
to seep away. He took a deep breath and replaced it with sheer
stubbornness, guiding Draco up to the tower and through the common
room, past his staring dorm mates, up to his room.	His
nightstand was still crowded with all his favourite animals, the
dragon, the wolf, the more elaborate origami that Draco had made.
Above his bed, hanging on strings charmed invisible were flowers,
butterflies and cranes. They moved occasionally, charms cast by his
overenthusiastic, teasing roommates, a breeze rustled through the
flowers, the birds and butterflies flapped their wings.	Harry
knew it must look ridiculous. He must look ridiculous. 
	Draco
just stared.	Harry
retrieve the red dragon, tracing the folds of the wings as he shifted
his weight from foot to foot, “I told you.”	The
tops of Draco’s cheeks were flushed pink.	“Draco-?”	Draco
blinked, turned on his heel and stiffly walked out of the room.	Harry
breathed out all at once and collapsed onto his bed. He set the paper
dragon on his chest and pushed his glasses off, covering his eyes
with his arm...	“I
think I messed it up,” Harry told Ron and Hermione as they packed
up after their first class of the day.	“What,
with Malfoy? That’s why you’ve been so quiet?” Ron said.	“How
did you know-”	Ron
rolled his eyes, “You took him through the dorm, mate, everyone
knows.”	Harry
groaned.	Hermione
walked a few desks down and picked up something up. She turned back
to Harry and smiled, “I don’t think you messed it up too badly.”	“What?”	Hermione
waved him over and handed him what seemed like a wad of paper, but as
Harry looked closer, he realised it was a heart folded out of
shimmery white paper, about the size of a sickle. Harry curled his
fingers around it, cupping it protectively in his palm.	On
the way to their next class, two students Harry didn’t recognise,
gave him two more hearts, one pink, one silver. After transfiguration
he found a red heart sitting on a desk by the door.	Luna
intercepted him on the way to lunch.	“Do
you have a heart too?” Harry asked, his hands already too full.	Luna
held up a jar, “I thought you might need this.”	“Yes.
Thank you, Luna,” Harry said putting all the hearts into the
jar.	“And
this as well,” Luna said, dropping in a little gold heart.	Harry
stared at the little collection of paper hearts, “Did- Did Draco
say anything?”	Luna
smiled, “To me yes. But you’ll have to talk to him to find out
what he wants to say to you.”	Harry
nodded and went to lunch, setting his jar on the table where three
more hearts were added. After Care of Magical Creatures, students
that he passed in the hall had hearts of all sorts of colours and
patterns, putting them in his quickly filling jar as they walked past
without a word, but with quite a few grins and muffled giggles.	Harry
didn’t even have to take his map out to find Draco, he just
followed the line of students with hearts in their hands, back to the
library. Draco was sitting near the windows, a small stack of papers
at his elbow as he slowly methodically folded another heart.	Harry
pulled out the chair beside Draco, setting his jar on the table as he
sat down, “Hello.”	Draco
bit his bottom lip, his cheeks flushing pink as he finished the heart
in his hand, “Potter.”	“You’ve
been- These are all from you?” Harry asked tapping the side of the
jar.	“Who
else would they be from?” Draco asked.	Harry
flushed, nervously running his hand through his hair, “… They’re,
umm, beautiful.”	
 “Harry,” Draco said quietly, placing the last red heart on the
top of the full jar. “I’ve quite literally given you my heart.”	Harry
swallowed hard.	“Kiss
him!” Ron’s voice called.	Harry
spotted his friends watching a few tables away, the only students not
pretending to be hard at work.	Hermione
elbowed Ron in the side, but he just grinned and shouted, “Come on,
Malfoy! Just kiss him!”	Those
clever hands Harry so admired pulled him close and soft lips pressed
against his own. Harry’s heart soared as he watched Draco’s pale
eyelashes tremble against his cheek before he pulled back.	“Now
do you understand?” Draco asked.	“Yeah,”
Harry said softly, “Yeah, I do,” and kissed him back.
♡
♡ Fin 
♡
♡
♡ I’ve had this sitting half-finished with my other wip’s just waiting for a romantic heart shaped sort of day
♡  I hope you liked it &amp; thank you for reading!  ♡        
                            dorthyanndrarry                        FollowUnfollowdorthyannwritesdrarrydrarry fanficdrarry fanfictionvalentines drarrydrarry ficfanfictionone shotone-shot3,692 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Rian Johnson basically confirmed that Kylo / Ben wanted to kiss Rey in the elevator scene. It’s canon. Not to mention, Johnson tells us that Adam Driver, as Kylo / Ben, seriously considered kissing Rey (Daisy Ridley) in this scene. He is, indeed, staring at her lips in the elevator. We almost got a kiss here.Why? Because Rian Johnson gave us this tidbit:Q: So…is this the first time Kylo has ever held hands with a girl?Rian Johnson: I actually talked about that with Adam [Driver]. Adam was like, “So…have I [Kylo / Ben] actually kissed a girl before?” I would think maybe he has. Maybe after hours in the Jedi camp, there was a game of spin the bottle — “spin the lightsaber…” Keep reading        
                            obversa                        FollowUnfollowreyloreylo metareyrey of jakkutljthe last jedikylo renben solothe elevator sceneelevator sceneadam driverdaisy ridleyrian johnson3,666 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Horikoshi Kohei, out here making articles of clothing have angst to them. Giving them meaning and feelings. Also wrecking our hearts in the process.        
                            arikorei                        FollowUnfollowshirakumo oboroshimura nanabnha eribnha twiceshigaraki tomurabnha tomurabnha shigarakibnha shirakumobnhamy hero academiabnha vigilantes chapter 61bnha vigilantes 61himiko togabnha togaall mightam I really going to start crying over this?yep I amkinda repeating my old tags but ehhhor was that from the chatbnha manga spoilersbnha spoilersALSO PEOPLE SINCE THE NOTIFICATION THINGY WOULDN'T WORK IF I REPLIED TO A COMMENTHORIKOSHI MAY NOT WRITE VIGILANTESBUT HE DOES GO OVER IT AND APPROVE ITSUGGEST IDEAS OR TAKE THINGS OUTAND HE'S THE ONE WHO CREATED SHIRAKUMO AND PROBABLY THE ENTIRE BACKSTORYSHIRAKUMO DID SHOW UP IN THE MAIN SERIES VIA MENTION AND FLASHBACK615 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Humans and Traumatic Brain Injury        Hey everyone, sort of wanted to hop on the “Humans are Space Orcs” Bandwagon and give it a shot. Was thinking about all the crazy things that happen to humans that they shouldn’t survive. Krill had never actually met a human. Of course he had heard
about them. As a trauma doctor at the second largest medical facility in the
quadrant, they received many visitors, and their stories, from far across the
galaxy.  . The humans weren’t a new topic of discussion, they had been
around for a while, and were slowly beginning to spread outward from their
homeworld. Every day more and more species were bringing stories of the
strange predators. It used to be the stories were told second hand, a friend
of a friend sort of thing, but more and more were coming in with supposed
stories of personal encounters. While the humans weren’t a new topic of discussion, they were
certainly a popular one. Every week it seemed another visitor was bringing them
another thrilling story of the crazy deathworlders. Krill doubted many of the stories. As s medical professional he
relied on hard science fast and was not prone to flights of fancy.But one faithful solar cycle he witness something that would
change his opinion forever.It was a slow day, most transports and stock ships had
transferred out the day before taking crews and accidents along with them.Krill floated aimlessly through the halls checking on patients
and occasionally sending a memo to a colleague. All this was easily done with
four independent limbs and four separated cortical hemispheres.The lights in the building flashed suddenly red. Radio signals
pulled against his lateral receptors as he turned to race down the hallway. The
radio signals morphed into a voice, “Doctor, we have an emergency SOS from
the USS Stabby requesting immediate medical assistance.”The words used were unfamiliar to Krill as he took the next
hallway at speed. “Species?”“Scans indicate it is a human freelance ship.” If it weren’t for his medical training, he might have stopped in
shock, “Repeat?”“Humans. I’m sending a biological map now.”The radio signals morphed, and the lateral cortical zone of his
right posterior unit decoded the image. The human was an odd creature. Ten unit
tall bipedal endoskeleton with two attached cortical hemispheres heavily carbon
based running by a circulatory pump and a complex set of smooth muscle tubes.
With advanced medical training and four cortical hemispheres, he knew enough at
that moment to preform most any emergency medical operation necessary.Upon seeing the biomap, he was almost 100% sure those stories
had been false. Floating to a stop in the main medical unit he waited with two
supporting staff as they listened to the roar of the ships engines approach
from the sky.Sanctum’s rings! Their engines were loud.The doors ahead burst open, and three of the creatures rushed in
pushing a fourth in a wheeled chair. Long waves of electromagnetic radiation
indicated a burning red color painting the front of the fourth creature. As a second thought he quickly flipped on his universal
translator.“It’s gonna be alright captain, you’re going to be fine, just
don’t move your head.”Krill quickly noted the universal medical patch on the human’s
right upper limb. It must be an emergency if they were forced to bring him planeside,
but blocked as he was, he could hardly see the fourth figure painted in slow wave’s
neck immobilized by a stiff foam collar. A figure beside was helping to hold the
creature in an upright sitting position. Stopping in the
center of the room, the two men moved to make way.  He had never
seen a sight so gruesome….. or if he had it had only been during postmortem examinations.
He hoped the humans were not capable of picking up the high amplitude shrill he
let off upon sight.The human male sat very still on the chair head tilted slightly
back. Blood had dripped from his right ocular socket around the edges of a
sharp metal rod protruding from its center.Around him the other humans were frantic letting out terrified
little wales as they looked on.A couple quick calculations.The rod would have pierced cortical tissueThe human should be dead.He had to be. If medical school had taught him anything, it was
that brain injury was impossible to surviveQuickly Krill threw off his horror and moved forward expecting
to find the human’s circulatory pump nonfunctional, but a quick scan showed the
organ to still be pumping and doing so at a slow rather of 66 beats.How could this be?“Hey doc?”Krill nearly leaped from his skin as the human spoke tight
lipped and very still other eye opening to roll towards him blurry and out of
focus.Another squeak of horror “Could you help me out here, I think I got something stuck in my
frontal lobe.”He suddenly didn’t know what to do with his hands. What madness
was this! Not only was the human NOT dead, but he was SPEAKING!Impossible!“Captain, please, don’t talk.” The other human begged “Just listen to me for a sec….. and stop freaking out, I’m the
one with this damn thing sticking out of my brain….”The group around him grew quiet.Krill moved forward. Doing a slow examination.“Do you feel pain?” He asked in shocked curiosity.The human’s one good eye squinted thoughtfully, “Um….no.”“How can….”The other doctor looked at him, “The human brain can shut off
pain when needed. He will feel it more when the shock wears off.”“You can shut off pain?”“Thank the Lord.” The eyeless human muttered quietly.“How did….”“How did I get an accidental lobotomy?” “What is a lobotomy?”“Um we will talk about it later.” ***            Turns out Krill
would rather not have known what a lobotomy was…. Barbaric humans.            But still he
was fascinated. Never had he met a species that was capable of surviving a
brain injury, and surely not one to this magnitude. Any species other than a
human would have perished on the instant. The shock of such a trauma alone
would have been enough to kill, but instead the human’s brain had shut down the
pain and calmed the human even despite the damage.            After treating
the wound, Krill had performed a complex surgery to remove the object. The amount
of brain damage would have been extensive in any other species, but their ship’s
medic seemed relieved upon seeing the images.             The eye socket
had been broken, the eye had been mutilated, and the optic nerve had been
severed. The human would lose use of that eye, but that didn’t seem to bother
the human, it was already functioning with a robotic leg.            Who would have
thought the stories were true, who would have thought he would be shipping off
with a group of humans in the next week.            Who would have
thought the ability of a human to survive traumatic brain injury?         
                            starr-fall-knight-rise                        FollowUnfollowhumans are space orcsearth is space australiahumans are weird4,478 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
I Need Someone (누군가 필요해)DAY6 (데이식스)
                            superlizothings                        FollowUnfollowIf you haven't listened to this yetdo yourself a favor and give it a tryi might have played it on repeat since morning and i might have cried each timehits you right in the feels tbhi'm glad i stan day6they're incredibleday6I need someoneaudioeveryday6october530 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            A Stupid Way to come up with Original Characters and Stories (That Somehow Works)        Find a character from a work you admire. Any media will do, but Children’s media works the best.Ask yourself a few questions about the character in question. I don’t have a complete list, and the questions are likely going to vary, and most of this is coming off the top of my head, but yeah, here are a few suggestions.Was there anything about this character that ticked you off? Maybe this character did something that you thought was ooc? Or maybe this character is too perfect and could use a few more flaws.Does the medium or genre prevent the character from performing certain actions? Furthermore, do certain aspects of the characters life, including sex, gender, social status, and age prevent this character from acting in a certain way?Is there something you want to see the character do that you know will never happen in the show?And finally, is there anything you want to change about this character?Rant to yourself or to tumblr about everything the show apparently did wrong. Constantly switch between getting mad at yourself for nitpicking a show you love and being mad at the work itself for not being 100% perfect. Scream into a pillow, make yourself some hot cocoa, eat a full dinner, and then take a hot shower. Get out a sketchpad or a word document or anything else you use to brainstorm and start drawing and or writing about the character in the show. But write the character the way you think they should be, as opposed to the way their presented in canon. Take into account that changing some aspects of your character will effect the story in some pretty big ways, especially if what you changed is an action the character performed. Maybe that Magical Princess ran away at a young age under the stress of becoming queen before joining a gang and ultimately becoming a crime boss? Maybe that Alien supervillain can be reformed by showing them the good things about the planet Earth. When you change an aspect of a story, justify the change by having it affect every other aspect of the story. Whatever you do, though, don’t handwave the change. Instead embrace it… those changes are where the heart of your story lies.Don’t be afraid to add in elements from other works of fiction other than the one you’ve chosen. Most of the plot elements of Gravity falls and Rick and Morty, for example, are just similar enough to make a meeting between Ford Pines and Rick Sanchez possible. Look over your work and note just how far you’ve drifted from canon. If you’ve changed the idea enough, it should feel kinda alien to the original work. If it’s too similar, then if might be a good idea to repeat the previous steps.Some of the things to note include tone, genre, level of obscenity, and target demographic. Considering how fanworks typically go, we almost unconsciously make dark shows light and fluffy and light and fluffy shows dark and gritty. This can be a good thing when done right.The humour of the work will also depends on the type of humour you feel comfortable writing. Sometimes your humour will be almost exactly like the original work, and sometimes it’ll be drastically different. Aim for the latter.If you added in elements from another work of fiction, then certain patterns are inevitably going to be formed. using the Rick and Morty/ Gravity Falls fandom above, one can’t help but make Ford and Rick foils of each other; two interdimensional science dorks, but one has a stronger sense of morality. The character reactions between the two of them is dripping with potential that we’ll never see in canon, because these two shows air on different networks and are aimed at different target demographics.If necessary, repeat the process again, but this time apply this to your version of the character. Continue until your happy with what you have.Finally, rename the characters, and if you’re an artist, re-draw them as well. The new names and designs should reflect the character you wrote, not the character you were inspired by. And bam, you just made something original. Now obviously, this isn’t the only way to make characters or write stories… artists tend to draw from real life just as often as they reference other works of fiction. But the great thing about this process is that it depends entirely on your own personal interpretation of not only the work of fiction in question, but also of how the world around you works. I believe that we, as humans, are natural complainers and nitpickers, constantly believing ourselves to be the sole authority on how the world should work. On one hand, it might be easy to just rant about it and call it a day, but I believe these rants hold quite a lot of creative potential. Writing isn’t about coming up with something wholly new and original… story telling is pretty much limited to the human experience, and we’ll always fall back on something familiar (note the tropeless tale)… instead, its about writing about the familiar in a new way.Thoughts?        
                            enlightenedrobot                        FollowUnfollowWritingOriginal CharactersOCWriting ReferenceTVtropesStar vs the Forces of EvilGravity FallsSteven UniverseInvader ZimRick and Morty3,036 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
© Tumblr, Inc.HelpAboutAppsDevelopersThemesJobs
    LegalTermsCopyright
            Privacy          EnglishDeutschFrançaisItaliano日本語TürkçeEspañolPусскийPolskiPortuguês (PT)Português (BR)Nederlands한국어简体中文繁體中文 (台灣)繁體中文 (香港)Bahasa Indonesiaहिंदी
