            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionSchool ChoiceState PolicyVouchers and Tax Credits
                            A Federal Scholarship Tax Credit: The Only Fifty-State School-Choice Option
                                By Thomas W. Carroll                                                                                                                            
		Thomas W. Carroll
            With a President who doesn’t fear the teachers unions and Republican control of the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives, the opportunity for school choice has never been stronger. A consensus is developing that the quickest and most effective route to a school-choice victory for all fifty states is a federal scholarship tax credit. This idea could be included in the major tax-reform overhaul expected this spring.
Indeed, a 2015 bill, introduced by Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida) and Representative Todd Rokita (R-Indiana), is an example of just such an approach. It proposes a federal tax credit for K–12 scholarships that is independent of state programs—much like federal tax credits for buying electric vehicles.
Some school-choice advocates have assumed that federal tax credits would be an “add on” to larger scholarships financed by state tax credit scholarships. That’s one way to do it. But there’s no reason a federal scholarship couldn’t stand on its own. And if it did, it would unlock school choice for children in every state in the land.
Here’s how it could work. If you pay federal taxes and donate to any eligible, existing scholarship fund—for example, the Children’s Scholarship Fund—you get to reduce your tax bill by the amount of your donation. Any such bill would set an income threshold for who can use the scholarships funded by the tax-credited donations (in the Rubio-Rokita case, up to 2.5 times the poverty level, or about $60,000 for a family of four), place a cap on what size donation would be eligible for a tax credit, and potentially limit the total combined amount of tax credits allowed for all taxpayers in a calendar year ($20 billion, for example, the amount of federal funds President Trump has proposed for expanding school choice).
Any good federal school-choice tax credit program would also have three other features. First, it would allow a K–12 scholarship fund to provide full scholarships to students in states without their own programs, and to “top up” scholarships in states that have them already. The absence of such flexibility would prevent the program from reaching all fifty states, and would fail to aid millions of students who would otherwise benefit.
Second, it would permit fuller and more generous scholarships for children in need. This would have the salutary effect of stimulating the supply of private-school options, even making possible the reopening of formerly shuttered Catholic and other schools. In the Bronx, for example, the supply of Catholic schools simply is not adequate to meet the demand of Hispanic and other immigrants. The interest is very high, but the ability to pay is not. Large scholarships would transform the educational landscape in the Bronx virtually overnight.
Finally, in a nation as diverse as the U.S., federal policies shouldn’t micromanage, so the program would be as flexible as possible to account for America’s many variations.
Not only is such a federal school-choice tax credit doable—it’s the only way President Trump can effectively bring school choice to families in the blue states that voted for him in 2016 and others that might in the future. No other solution can immediately benefit every American student. A competitive grant program, for example, would at most affect a half-dozen states. And categorical block grants that can be turned into school vouchers require state-by-state approval, meaning “choice” states would likely allow, but “non-choice” states would not.
A good federal tax credit, on the other hand, impacts everyone and doesn’t require state approval, shielding it from teachers unions and state and local pols who would otherwise try to muck it up. And it skirts Blaine Amendments in state constitutions that have no power over federal policies.
In short, if Trump wants a fifty-state school-choice victory and he wants it soon, the federal tax-reform bill that can be acted upon as early as this spring is the best vehicle to get this done. It would fund K–12 scholarships all across the country, and would offer an instant legacy by improving quickly the lives of millions of American students.
— Thomas W. Carroll
Thomas W. Carroll is president of the Invest in Education Coalition based in New York.
This post originally appeared on Flypaper.
					Last updated February 2, 2017
					License this Content
			Thomas W. CarrollAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Necessity, Not Nicety: What We’ve Learned About District-Charter Alliances
            February 1, 2017
            Next Article
            The Patriots and the ‘Unpopular Stuff’ of Excellence
            February 3, 2017
We Recommend You Read
		Why a Trump School Choice Initiative is Unlikely to Succeed
		by Michael J. Petrilli
		Let’s Hear It for Educational Freedom!
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		Four Things to Know about Tax Credit Scholarships for School Choice
		by Kristin Blagg
                                    Thomas W. Carroll	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
