     Skip to Main Content
                                        Dreamwidth Support
            Known Issues
            If you have a question about how to do something on Dreamwidth, you can read or search the FAQs. If you can't find an answer, we'd be happy to help.You can also check the dw_maintenance community for temporary or breaking issues.Current Issues:A small number of people have had problems with their bank declining the credit card charge from our new payment processor when trying to make a payment. If your card is declined, please call your issuing bank for more information about why.Posting Dreamwidth links to Facebook: Facebook has added all dreamwidth.org URLs to their blacklist of sites that cannot be linked to from Facebook. If you're having trouble linking to your Dreamwidth account from your Facebook account because of it, you'll need to contact Facebook support.Crossposting to LiveJournal will continue to fail intermittently as LiveJournal's abuse detection systems block us. We're doing what we can to fix it, but our available options are severely limited.If you are importing your journal from LiveJournal and receive an error saying that you must agree to the Terms of Service, that error is being generated by LiveJournal, not by us! You'll have to log in to your LiveJournal account and accept the Terms of Service in order to import your journal.Extension ConflictsIf you use the LastPass browser extension, it may save and automatically fill entry titles on the update form. If so, you can disable automatic filling by going to the Preferences and unchecking "Automatically Fill Login Information".Common problems:The following is a list of the most common issues that users encounter on Dreamwidth.  You may also wish to look at the Current Issues FAQ category, which has an expanded list of current issues.  If you're experiencing one of these bugs, you don't need to open a request to report it. We already have it logged into our bug tracker, and we'll be fixing it as quickly as we can.CaptchaSometimes the text-based captcha service fails to load or respond to a correct answer.  If that happens to you, please reload the affected page and try again.Importer Common import failure issues Embedded media may not work on imported entries. Icon keywords with some UTF-8-encoded characters are failing to import properly. Tags you've deleted on the remote site may import along with tags that are used on your entries.Crossposter Incorrect password errors Security settings might change on editing the post.Icons Icon keywords are not working correctly.Profile Some HTML tags that users enter onto the profile will not properly display (such as table backgrounds and outlines).Entries/Comments Some HTML tags that users enter in entries or comments will not properly display.Inbox/Comment Emails It is not yet possible to receive emailed notifications of comments you receive without that comment also being sent to your inbox.Last updated 26 July 2020
            Ask a Question
            If you can't find the answer to your question, you can open a support request for more help.
            If you're looking for your current or past requests, you can use our History tool to search for them.
            Did You Know?
            Dreamwidth Support is primarily run by volunteers. Do you have some spare time? Help someone! The High Scores page lists who helps out the most.
            Frequently Asked Questions
            We've got answers to hundreds of questions. You can search the FAQ for what you're looking for.
                What HTML tags can I use on Dreamwidth?
                How do I make a link to another Dreamwidth account, or an account on another service?
                What Dreamwidth-specific markup/HTML tags can I use?
                What are Dreamwidth's different text formats?
                What is a cut?  How can I hide part of my entry behind a cut?
                What are the extra services available?
                What HTML can I use in my entry?
                How do I use Dreamwidth's image hosting? How do I manage my images once they've been uploaded?
                How do I post an image in an entry?
                How do I make an entry sticky, so it's always at the top of my journal?
                » view all FAQs
    Log in
            Account name:
            Password:
             Remember me
            Other options:
              Forget your password?
              Log in with OpenID?
      ×
                    menu
  Log in
Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
InterestRegionSite and AccountFAQEmailIM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
