            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Blog
                            EdTech Market is Growing–If You’re Disruptive
                                By Michael B. Horn                                                                                                                            
		Michael B. Horn
            An article by Katie Ash in Education Week about a new report by the investment bank, Berkery Noyes,  caught my eye recently because of its analysis about the education  technology market. According to the piece, “companies focused on  technology-based instruction and tools for data collection and analysis  are thriving in the K-12 market.”
But beneath this, there are some important layers of nuance that  seems to clarify what many education technology companies are seeing on  the ground.
On the one hand, a whole series of education technology companies say the current budget crises are hurting their  businesses. According to the article, if you are in the business of  providing such things as supplemental content, then that is indeed the  likely reality of your world.
Our own theories would suggest that companies offering one-off  learning games or “the best” math activity that complements the main  curriculum—in other words, companies that do not offer a full course  worth of curriculum—will struggle to sell into public schools because  their business model will remain challenged in the current environment.  (Of course, companies like Motion Math and Bent Castle Software (with their Numbers League app) may have found a way around this with their low-cost, direct-to-consumer mobile apps strategy–but stay tuned).
On the other hand, several digital learning companies report to me  that the budget crises seem to have driven an up-tick in their  businesses. And according to the report, there’s an explanation for  that. If you’re doing something more disruptive—online learning and  technology-based intervention, for example—those budget crises haven’t  affected you, and as we argued in Disrupting Class, might actually accelerate growth, as this is one factor driving the growth of online learning more generally.
Vivek Kamath, the managing director at Berkery Noyes who specializes  in the education market, adds further fuel to some of our own past  observations when he is quoted in the article as saying that companies  that offer integrated services will likely thrive, whereas those that  are offering limited niche solutions will struggle. As Heather Staker and I wrote in “The rise of K-12 blended learning,”  “In the early days of most new products and services, the leading  providers tend to be vertically integrated and offer products with  proprietary, interdependent architectures. … The dominance of companies  like K12, Inc. and Connections Academy to this point shows that the K–12  online-learning industry is no different.” Our own interviews with  schools for that report revealed that integrated offerings were still  very much in high demand.
Even for the disruptive companies, however, the report does caution  one other thing—which again, is consistent with my recent blog that  asked if we were in the midst of an online learning bubble.  The caution is that companies selling into public school districts and  states are still selling into a highly politicized space with  long-buying cycles and all the rest (others have written about this extensively). And despite all the hype, this reality has not fundamentally changed.
-Michael B. Horn
					Last updated August 25, 2011
					License this Content
			Michael B. HornAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            An Easy Way to Calculate the Rising Cost of Schooling
            August 24, 2011
            Next Article
            One Size Fits Most
            August 26, 2011
We Recommend You Read
		The Innovation Infatuation
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		Embracing Screen Time
		by Education Next
		New Research Answers Whether Technology is Good or Bad for Learning
		by Michael B. Horn
                                    Michael B. Horn	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
