            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogHigher EducationOpinionState Policy
                            Texting Nudges Harm Degree Completion
                                By Jay P. Greene                                                                                                                            
		Jay P. Greene
When behavioral nudges using text messages became the flavor of the month a few years ago I expressed some serious reservations. In general, I was concerned that nudges substitute the preferences of distant experts for those of people who may understand their own situation better, thereby pushing people to do things against their better judgement.  These interventions may appear successful in the short run, especially when we examine near-term outcomes that are over-aligned with the intervention, but they may harm people over the long run.
In particular, I was responding to texting nudges being advocated by Ben Castleman and others to reduce “summer melt” by getting students to complete the FAFSA and enroll in college.  I wrote:
…even if sending text messages is successful at getting more low-income students to complete the FAFSA and enroll in college in the fall, it is unclear whether this ensures a positive outcome. Students who start college but then fail to finish may be hurt by forsaking employment and other training opportunities and taking on significant debt for a credential they never earn. The students who are accepted to college but then decide not to enroll may have just been deterred by an intimidating form, as Castleman suspects, or they may know things about themselves that made them rationally decide not to pursue a degree they are unlikely to complete. The 160-character solution may unwittingly push students into making decisions that are against their better judgment and end up harming them. Castleman has not reported retention and graduation rates from the texting intervention, so we do not know whether this behavioral nudge is helping or hurting students in the long term.
Well, Ben Castleman and Lindsay Page have finally released results on the longer-term effects of their “summer melt” texting nudge and they are pretty clearly negative.  That is, students randomly assigned to receive texts to remind them to complete the FAFSA while they are seniors in high school are significantly less likely to complete an AA or BA degree than those who were not nudged into completing the forms necessary to get financial aid and enroll in college.  As can be seen in Table 10, the treatment group was 1.7 percentage points less likely to complete a BA degree in 4 years (p&lt; .01).  The treatment group was also .8 percentage points less likely to complete an AA degree after 2 years and 1.0 percentage point less likely to complete an AA after 3 years (p &lt; .1).
Castleman and Page then focus on the subset of subjects who were in the uAspire program and for whom they had outcomes after 6 years.  At the end of 6 years the students who were randomly assigned to receive texting nudges were 2 percentage points less likely to have earned an AA degree (p &lt; .1) and they were no more likely to have earned a BA degree. (See Table 12).
Castleman and Page also report results on whether students already enrolled in college are more likely to complete their degrees if they are randomly assigned to receive texts reminding them to renew the FAFSA so they can continue receiving financial assistance.  As shown in Table 18, students reminded to renew the FAFSA are no more likely to complete an AA or BA degree.
So, the longer-term results of these texting nudges are generally null or negative despite initially encouraging results that the intervention got more students to complete a form and enroll in college.  The problem is likely to be exactly what I suspected.  Students were being pushed into doing things that were against their own better judgement.
Researchers and foundation officials may think everyone should enroll in college but they don’t know each student’s circumstances and are very poorly positioned to know what is best for others.  Students and the advisors (family, counselors, educators, etc…) who know them and with whom they have authentic relationships understand the context better and are more likely to make good decisions.  Technocrats are inclined to manage things from afar, but this approach is very likely to end up hurting students.
The early, positive results for texting nudges received an enormous amount of attention, including an endorsement from Bill Gates and being featured on NPR’s Hidden Brain. Given that we now know that this type of nudge intervention may harm students, I hope there is a comparable amount of attention given to the release of the longer-term negative results.  There is no shame inherent in an intervention failing, but there are serious problems if we only tout temporary successes while ignoring long-run damages.
To their credit, Castleman and Page appear to be turning their attention in their newer research to “higher-touch” interventions that may cost more but may also have a better chance of providing guidance better suited to each student’s situation.  Higher-touch interventions also seem to acknowledge that success for students typically requires much more than a reminder or some information.  To succeed students need character traits that will help them make better decisions for themselves over and over as life presents an endless string of challenges.  To shape character requires human interaction and meaningful relationships.  That’s something that a “bot” or text message simply cannot do.
— Jay Greene
Jay P. Greene is endowed chair and head of the Department of Education Reform at the University of Arkansas.
This post originally appeared on his blog.
					Last updated January 18, 2019
					License this Content
			Jay P. GreeneAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Academic Innovation: The Obligation to Evolve
            January 17, 2019
            Next Article
            Social and Emotional Learning is Easy to Love, Which Should Make Us Nervous
            January 22, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		The Forgotten Students
		by Michael B. Horn
		College Needs a Rethink
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		Democrats Just Voted AGAINST Free College
		by Steve Klinsky
                                    Jay P. Greene	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
