            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogCurriculumOpinionState Policy
                            A Strong Case for a Knowledge-Centric Curriculum
                                By Chester E. Finn, Jr.                                                                                                                            
		Chester E. Finn, Jr.
            Don Hirsch has done it again. Never mind that he’s eighty-eight. Why Knowledge Matters: Rescuing Our Children from Failed Educational Theories, his fifth book on education reform—there were at least five earlier ones in his original field of English literature, criticism, and composition—is as clear and trenchant as Cultural Literacy was in 1987. And it is arguably even more needed, as there’s ample evidence that the “knowledge” part of K–12 education has been backsliding even as we’ve seen slight improvement on the skills side.
There’s the curricular narrowing associated with our reading-and-math obsession and the accountability regimes attached thereto. There’s the perverse effect of Google and other technologies leading us to assume that we “can always look it up.” And most perniciously—it is the theme of Why Knowledge Matters—there’s what Hirsch terms “the tyranny of three ideas” that steer educators in the wrong direction.
Here, in short form, are the mistaken ideas:
• Early education should be age-appropriate and seen as part of a “natural development process.” (“Early education” in Hirsch’s world isn’t preschool; it’s kindergarten and the first several grades of school.)
• Early education should be individualized as far as possible.
• The main aim of education is to develop critical thinking and other “general skills.”
Wrong, wrong, and wrong, as Hirsch musters ample evidence from psychology and social science to prove. What kids mostly need in the early grades is a common, knowledge-centric curriculum (they’ll learn more, too, since they’ll find it so much more interesting). It’ll boost their reading scores; prepare them to succeed in middle school, high school, and beyond, where U.S. test scores (and other metrics) crash; and equalize opportunity in American society in ways that no anti-poverty or compensatory education program can possibly do.
This assessment isn’t coming from an impartial observer. I’m on the board of Don’s Core Knowledge Foundation and helped launch the Knowledge Matters Campaign. I also lent him a bit of help with this book as a longtime friend and admirer. Ever since Diane Ravitch and I happened upon his seminal 1983 article in the American Scholar and encouraged him to turn it into the book that became Cultural Literacy four years later, I’ve found his informed ideas about what ails American education persuasive and sound—far more than those of just about any other thinker, in fact.
Readers of this book will also be exposed to a riveting and well-documented object lesson as Hirsch recounts the sorry fate of academic achievement in France after that country abandoned its longstanding national curriculum. Read it and see for yourself.
Yes, you will likely be provoked by Don’s heterodox thinking about many of reform’s most prominent standards-and-accountability initiatives; by his earnest advocacy of the kind of standardized state or national curriculum that many politicians assume to be a “third rail” proposition; and by his insistence that for knowledge truly to be acquired, the curriculum has to be systematic and cumulative rather than a random assemblage of “units.” Though he sees potential in the “commonness” of the Common Core, he argues that true learning gains will only follow if states turn more demanding ELA standards into a mandate for knowledge-rich curricula and if test makers understand that “close reading” of texts could make things worse unless those texts are integrated with such a curriculum. Otherwise, they will lead to even more class time given to counterproductive efforts at skill building rather than inculcating knowledge. Moreover, kids will be even less prepared than they are today to handle the demands of the upper grades and thereafter.
I don’t know whether this will turn out to be Don’s last book. Informed as it is, however, by almost four decades of experience and research on these issues, it’s probably his best.
– Chester E. Finn, Jr.
This first appeared on Flypaper.
					Last updated August 25, 2016
					License this Content
			Chester E. Finn, Jr.Author Bio				
            Previous Article
            Ten-year Trends in Public Opinion From the EdNext Poll
            August 23, 2016
            Next Article
            6 Tips From Personalized Learning Innovators Leading Change
            August 26, 2016
We Recommend You Read
		Curriculum Becomes a Reform Strategy
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		The Social-Emotional-Learning Movement and the Self-Esteem Movement
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
                                    Chester E. Finn, Jr.	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
