            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogHigher EducationOpinionState PolicyTechnology
                            The Disruptive Playbook for Bootcamps to Upend Higher Education
                                By Michael B. Horn                                                                                                                            
		Michael B. Horn
Will bootcamps and other last-mile providers disrupt higher education?
Ryan Craig, an investor and writer thinks so. His most recent book, A New U: Faster + Cheaper Alternatives to College, makes a compelling case that the disruption is already underway.
As the person who likes to be ahead of the curve on forecasting disruptive innovations in education, reading the book caused me to write that “A New U is the book I wish I had written.”
But disrupting traditional colleges and universities is a tall order. For bootcamps to do so, they will have to do more than initially serve students who are not being served by traditional higher education with a more affordable, convenient offering that is perceived as primitive and with a technology enabler that allows them to improve even as they make money and don’t cause the majority of traditional colleges and universities to compete directly. After establishing this foothold, they will have to go “up-market,” and serve more of higher education beyond technology and an on-ramp into a career.
Against that backdrop, Richard Price and Alana Dunagan recently published an important paper, “Betting on bootcamps: How short-course training programs could change the landscape of higher ed,” that outlines five different scenarios for the future of bootcamps. Parsing these scenarios helps provide a window into whether and how bootcamps will—or will not—disrupt higher education.
Scenario 1: In the first scenario they present, bootcamps get stuck and fail to disrupt higher education. As Price and Dunagan note, even if an upstart provider properly adopts a disruptive stance, that strategy leads only to 37% of market entrants establishing a successful growth company, according to Clayton Christensen’s seminal book, The Innovator’s Dilemma. Although that rate of success is more than 6 times better than a startup that chooses to compete head-on with incumbents, it’s hardly a guarantee of success. In particular, the authors note that there are several things that could limit the growth of bootcamps, from employers not buying into the bootcamps being unable to serve new fields beyond technology.
Scenario 2: Democrats and Republicans alike are expressing interest in extending federal dollars to bootcamps in an effort to have them serve low-income students. As Price and Dunagan wrote, accessing federal dollars could either incentivize bootcamps to chase enrollments regardless of outcomes—which would likely hurt bootcamps odds of disrupting higher education in the longer run—or it could represent a place to experiment with new funding models focused on outcomes that could set bootcamps on an exciting and expansive trajectory. Policy wonks beware.
Scenario 3: One way bootcamps could serve wider swaths of the market is by expanding into lifelong learning—that is, they create an organization that not only helps equip people with the skills for a first job in a career, but then continues to serve them throughout their careers. Taking this tack could also help students build the conceptual foundations that some worry graduates of bootcamps don’t have. For this approach to work, Price and Dunagan argue that employer partnerships around upskilling employees that allow bootcamps to reduce acquisition costs will be critical so bootcamps can preserve and grow profit margins. I can imagine a second way that bootcamps could make this model work, as they become a one-stop education shop to serve their alumni and grow with them over time.
Scenario 4: The flip of scenario three is a scenario in which bootcamps start educating employees in fields outside of technology where there is clear employer demand and a shortage of labor supply. Moving outside of technology could be messier because the skills at the heart of successful employees aren’t always so clear, the authors wrote—but for those bootcamps that can master it, the upside could be tremendous.
Scenario 5: A combination of the above scenarios occurs in which bootcamps achieve breadth and depth and disruption ensues. Price and Dunagan paint a grim picture of what disruption might look like for traditional colleges and universities, which would unfold gradually. Consistent with research from my forthcoming book, Choosing College, the authors suggest that there would likely continue to be some demand for a residential college experience. They provocatively suggest, however, that in this scenario “this experience will no longer reside in the public conscience as the default college experience” but instead as “a particular offering in a larger, more modular and unbundled higher education system whose focus is on helping learners earn and learn, as opposed to the existing pattern of learn and then later, maybe, earn.”
It’s a provocative vision and a compelling roadmap of what has to occur if bootcamps are to disrupt traditional colleges and universities, that sets up a clear set of road signs to watch to see if bootcamps are indeed going to make a run at disruption.
Michael Horn is a co-founder of and a distinguished fellow at the Clayton Christensen Institute for Disruptive Innovation.
This post originally appeared on ChristensenInstitute.org.
					Last updated May 20, 2019
					License this Content
			Michael B. HornAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            In the News: New Democratic Divide on Charter Schools Emerges, as Support Plummets Among White Democrats
            May 17, 2019
            Next Article
            Is School Segregation Really Getting Worse?
            May 22, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Accreditation’s Insidious Impact on Higher Education Innovation
		by Michael B. Horn
		As Google Steals its Education Thunder, What Can Microsoft Do?
		by Michael B. Horn
		Virtual Reality Digs Into Brick-and-Mortar Schools
		by Michael B. Horn
                                    Michael B. Horn	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
