Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home
Teacher Resource 
&gt;
Lesson 
Plans Center &gt;
Science 
&gt;
Biology 
&gt;
Animals
Teacher Resources
Lesson Plans
Report Card Comments
Subject Matter
Teacher Articles
Teacher Dictionary
Teacher Methods &amp; Theory
Teacher Newsletter
Teacher Timesavers
Teaching Tips
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
Animal Lesson Plans
Animals 
Teaching Theme
Cyber-Starters, 
Animals, Vol. 2
All 
About Pets Lesson Series
Cyber-Starters, 
Animals, Vol. 3
Endangered 
Animals Lesson Series
Cyber-Starters, 
Farm Animals
Animals 
Worksheets
Animal 
Block Letters
Cyber-Starters, 
Animals Workbook
Farm 
Animals Theme Workbook
Endangered 
Animals Lesson Series
North 
American Animals
Flying 
Animals
Animals 
of the Ocean Lesson Series
A Fish Tale- Demonstrates 
how fish cells respond to fresh and salty water. 
A Guinea Pig Makes An 
Excellent Classroom Pet- 
Animal 
Adaptations- This activity enables students to get a better understanding 
of adaptations and their relationship to the environment by constructing 
an animal of their own! 
Animal 
Kingdom Overview - Basic differences between plants and animals.
Animal Behavior- 
Students will observe stimulus-response behavior. 
Animal Behavior: "Groggy 
Goldfish"- To observe the behavior of goldfish in water of varying 
temperatures. 
Animal Life Histories 
Derived From Morphology- Students will begin to learn the mechanisms 
of natural selection by deducing information from the physical appearance 
of the animal. 
Animal 
Group Review - Characteristics of animal groups that the children 
have been studying including reptiles, amphibians, and insects. 
Animals: Here and Now- 
Have a basic understanding of the animal kingdom and the various classifications. 
Animals and Their Coverings- 
To review and recall information about invertebrates and vertebrates, 
cold-blooded and warm-blooded animals and their coverings. 
Animals 
and their Habitats - Students will know plants and animals have structures 
that serve different functions in growth, survival, and reproduction. 
Animals 
that Hibernate- The students will be able to use the computer to research 
facts about hibernation. The students will be able to discover facts about 
animals that hibernate and eat in the winter. 
Be A "Peder-Reader": 
A Discovery Activity- To learn about the millipede's physical structure 
and characteristics by observing its behavior in given activities. Pupils 
will hypothesize whether they think the millipede will make an interesting 
pet for them or not. 
Bernoulli's Principle 
and Winged Flight- The objectives are to see how the decrease in air 
pressure which occurs when air is moving (relative to air which is not 
moving or is moving more slowly) allows birds to fly. 
Bird Beaks- The 
main objective of this Mini-teach is to show students that many different 
birds can live in the same geographical area because they are adapted 
to eat different organisms. 
Blind 
as a Bat - Students will learn about the concept of echolocation during 
a week long unit on bats. 
But, Why SEX?- To 
show the idea of sex offering genetic variability therefore allowing evolution 
to proceed at a faster rate when necessary. 
Careers 
in Vet.&amp; Animal Science - The students will be able recognize careers 
in the field of animal science and veterinary science. 
Characteristics 
of Mussel Species - Students will be able to identify 5 species of 
various mussels, by sets of physical characteristics as they use a dichotomous 
key. 
Classification of an 
Echinoderm- To understand how the starfish relates to its classification. 
Classification of an 
invertebrate: Sponge- To become familiar with primitive animals. 
Cool Coral Reefs- 
Identify, color, and label a world map and the location of the coral reefs. 
Dinosaurs: Read All 
About Them!- The main objective of the Mini-teach is to introduce 
students to library research as an integral part of scientific research. 
Dissection 
of owl pellets- Students will be able to examine owl pellets and what 
their diet consisted of, specifically rodents. They will further their 
understanding of simple food chains as well as bone structure and identification. 
Embryology: From Egg 
To Chick- This lesson illustrates similarities of biological functions 
in all animals. 
Features 
Of Mammals - Students will be able to understand that mammals have 
distinctive features which help us identify them. 
How and Why Chameleons 
Change Colors- Given a chameleon, the students will observe the color 
changes and explain the possible conditions that cause this reptile to 
change colors. 
If 
You Were Any Animal - Choose any animal, research this animal and 
create a Power Point presentation containing all information found. 
Insect Classification- 
Demonstrate the ability to classify any given insects by using a scientific 
insect classification key. 
Insects: Grasshoppers- 
Students will learn the characteristics of a grasshopper and the functions 
of the grasshopper external body parts. 
Insect Inquiries- 
The main objective of this lesson is to develop in the learner a curiosity 
about the insect world. Students will collect and observe insects native 
to the area. 
Know Your Cousins: Monotremas, 
Marsupials, and Placentals- It identifies some mammals. Students should 
be able to recognize characteristics of mammals. Students should be able 
to categorize mammal groupings. Students should be able to describe how 
mammals grow inside the mother's body and resemble their parents at birth. 
Life 
Cycle of a Frog - Students will demonstrate through the sequencing 
of cards the correct order of development. 
Making Your Dog Your 
Best Friend- This lesson is aimed for students of all grades to show 
them that hands, voice and heart is the basis of dog training and through 
demonstration and hands on experience, students will be able to teach 
a dog simple commands and to play a game. 
Name 
the Animals - The student will be able to identify the animals from 
the book "Panda Bear, Panda Bear, What Do You See?" 
National 
Zoo Virtual Field Trip 1 - TLW observe animals on live web cam and 
discuss similar and different features among animals. 
Nocturnal 
Animals- Using graphic organizers, students identify the characteristics 
of nocturnal animals. Arthur's First Sleepover by Marc Brown are sued 
for an introduction. 
Owl Pellets- Relate 
the contents of the owl pellet to the human skeletal system. 
Reconstructing A Fossil 
Pterosaur- Make inferences about the mode of locomotion, feeding habits, 
and adaptations of Scaphognathus crassirostis. 
Sea Activities- 
The students will learn that the sea water is salty, how to extract salt, 
and convert seawater into fresh drinking water. 
Sharks- The objective 
of this lesson is to teach the interrelationship between marine life forms. 
Teeth Identification 
in Omnivores, Herbivores and Carnivores- The main objective of this 
lesson is to demonstrate the differences in teeth structure and how it 
determines what a specific animal eats. 
Testing Fats in Food- 
The main objective of this Mini-teach is to provide students with the 
opportunity to test the presence of fat in foods. Students will become 
more aware of their daily diet. 
The Acetate Animal Hunt- 
Students should be able to determine which variations (adaptations) would 
allow an organism to survive and reproduce in a certain environment. 
The Amazing Starfish- 
The main objective of this mini-teach is to familiarize the students with 
the amazingly simple but complex characteristics of an Echinoderm. 
The Earthworm- To 
acquaint students with earthworms. 
Toothpick Worms- 
The objective of this lesson is to let students experience the role of 
color in camouflage. 
What Can You Learn From 
A Mealworm?- To practice collecting metric data using mealworms. 
What 
Kind of Animal? - Understanding what certain animals are that they 
may not be familiar with. 
Where's 
Walrus and Other Animals - The student will be able to identify and 
animal and that animals habitat. 
Wonderful Worms- 
Primary children will be able to identify living and non-living things. 
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
