  Member-supported news for Southern California
          Close
      Member-supported news for Southern California
      Listen Live
        News
        Programs
          Featured Programs
                AirTalk
                FilmWeek
                Take Two
                The Frame
          All Programs
              Programs A-Z
              Program Schedule
              Podcasts
              Archive
        Events
          KPCC In Person
              KPCC In Person
              Upcoming Events
              Past Events
          Get connected
              KPCC Events Newsletter
        Support Us
          Membership
                Become a Sustainer
                Become a Member
              About sustaining membership
              Update your credit card
              Member benefits
          Ways to Support
                Annual Gala
        About Us
          Connect with KPCC
              Contact us
              Become a source
              Share a news tip
          Learn more about us
              About KPCC
          People
              Staff Directory
              Executive leadership
              Board of Trustees
              Regional Advisory Council
              Careers
          @KPCC
          KPCC
        Donate Now
      Donate
      Menu
      Close
    Back
              Listen LiveNo matter where you are or what device you use to listen to KPCC, we've got you covered.
              Sign up for alerts
        News and culture through the lens of Southern California.
      Hosted by A Martínez
        Airs Weekdays 2 to 3 p.m.
    49:43
LA Art Show, Gentrification tensions in El Sereno, Smosh Town burgers
      Become a KPCC Sponsor
  Popular now on KPCC
  VIEWED
  DISCUSSED
        Call For Administration's COVID-19 Vaccine Contracts To Be Disclosed 
        A Coronavirus Vaccine Could Kill Half A Million Sharks, Conservationists Warn
        Despite Surge In Volunteers, Some Swing States Still Need Poll Workers
        Judge Rules Against Texas Limit Of One Drop-Off Site Per County For Absentee Ballots
          Judge Rules Against Texas Limit Of One Drop-Off Site Per County For Absentee Ballots
          Despite Surge In Volunteers, Some Swing States Still Need Poll Workers
          A Coronavirus Vaccine Could Kill Half A Million Sharks, Conservationists Warn
          Call For Administration's COVID-19 Vaccine Contracts To Be Disclosed 
      Become a KPCC Sponsor
        The 5300 block of Templeton Street in El Sereno, where several homes have been the target of anti-gentrification graffiti.
        KPCC/ Lori Galarreta
  Take Two
  |
  January 23, 2019
    Listen to story
      49:43
Download this story 35MB
  For the second day in Take Two's new time slot, we travel around Los Angeles, visiting the convention center downtown, where the country's longest-running art show is getting underway this week. We also meet with an El Sereno resident to talk about gentrification fences and the tagging they often inspire. Plus, we visit Gabriel's Auto Repair Shop in Pasadena to sample the Smosh Town burgers that are made there after hours.
School Funding
( Starts at 1:23 ) 
When the deal between United Teachers Los Angeles and LAUSD was unveiled yesterday, the union announced that the LA school board has agreed to vote this month on a resolution that calls for the governor and legislature to put a cap on new charter schools. Charter schools have faced scrutiny from members of the teacher’s union on up to Governor Gavin Newsom, who has pledged to push legislation to increase accountability for the state’s 12-hundred charters.
Guest:
	Kelly Gonez, an LAUSD board member who has taught at charter schools
L.A. Art Show
( Starts at 9:16 ) 
The L.A. Art Show is underway this week at the convention center downtown. Now in its 24th year, it's the longest-running venue for art in the U.S. and one of the largest art events in the world. We walk the show floor and find out why L.A. is becoming such a big player in the global art scene.
Guest:
	Mat Gleason, art curator
        Workers set up installations for the L.A. Art show.
        KPCC/ Leo Duran
Gentrification tensions in El Sereno
( Starts at 22:04 ) 
There's a spot on the east side of L.A. that's surrounded by green space. To the east lies Ascot Hills park, to the north Elephant Hill and nestled in between is the neighborhood of El Sereno. It may not be all that well known to other Angelenos, but some recent tensions there are making headlines. Since October, people have reported graffiti on their homes —specifically tagging wooden slat fences on recently remodeled homes. It's been described as "anti-gentrification."
Guest:
	Nadra Nittle, journalist and long-time resident
OC Homeless Count
( Starts at 17:49 ) 
The annual homeless count is underway in many Southern California counties this week. Yesterday, we heard what was happening on the ground in Los Angeles and in Ventura. Now we turn to Orange County and its "everyone counts" census. KPCC’s Jill Replogle was out on the streets with volunteers early this morning and sits down with A Martinez to give a sense how the count is progressing in the OC.
Guest:
	Jill Replogle, KPCC Orange County reporter
Income sharing agreements
( Starts at 29:57 ) 
A new bill introduced in the California Assembly aims to give students the option of paying for college by sharing their incomes after graduation. Under the proposal, the University of California and California State University systems would each develop pilot programs for so-called Income Sharing Agreements.
Guests:
	Jessica Thompson, Institute for College Access and Success
	California Assemblymember Randy Voepel
UC &amp; CSU Students May Pay Tuition Based On Future Income https://t.co/MLkSQ2w1WY&mdash; Asm. Randy Voepel (@RandyVoepel) January 10, 2019  -->https://twitter.com/RandyVoepel/status/1083154001678364672
Owens Valley
( Starts at 40:30 )
The history of Owens Valley and Los Angeles has been one of conflict and spanning several decades over water rights in the region. But now, in what looks like a peace-making move, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power has agreed to relinquish Owens Valley commercial properties back to the city. The proposal is to sell back the land to the struggling communities along Highway 395 - But is this enough to rectify the original sin the department?
Guest:
	Professor Jon Christensen, UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability
By day an auto repair shop, by night a burger joint
( Starts at 45:42 ) 
By day, Gabriel's Automotive in Pasadena does smog checks at its bustling shop along Hill Avenue. But once the power tools have been put away, the grills come out. Tuesdays through Saturdays, from 7 to 10 p.m. (or until the meat runs out), Smosh Town serves up its version of a smash burger.
Guest:
https://www.instagram.com/p/Bs-67o6lZyO/ 
	Elina Shatkin, LAist food editor
  Find a specific episode from Take Two's archive
        January
        February
        March
        April
        May
        June
        July
        August
        September
        October
        November
        December
        1
        2
        3
        4
        5
        6
        7
        8
        9
        10
        11
        12
        13
        14
        15
        16
        17
        18
        19
        20
        21
        22
        23
        24
        25
        26
        27
        28
        29
        30
        31
        2006
        2007
        2008
        2009
        2010
        2011
        2012
        2013
        2014
        2015
        2016
        2017
        2018
        2019
        2020
    Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
    blog comments powered by Disqus
  Enjoy Take Two? Try KPCC’s other programs.
  See all of our programs
        AirTalk
        With Larry Mantle
        Weekdays 10 a.m.-12 p.m.
        Lively and in-depth discussions of city news, politics, science, entertainment, the arts, and more.
            Latest Oct.9
              Potential For Election-related Unrest Prompts Law Enforcement Preparation
        FilmWeek
        With Larry Mantle
        Friday 11 a.m. - noon
        Reviews of the week's new movies, interviews with filmmakers, and discussion.
            Latest Oct.9
              FilmWeek: “The Glorias,” “Time,” “Yellow Rose” And More
        Take Two
        With A Martínez
        Weekdays 2 to 3 p.m.
        News and culture through the lens of Southern California.
            Latest Oct.9
              State of Affairs, International Girl's Day is Sunday, Weekend Preview
        The Frame
        With John Horn
        Temporarily on hiatus so that our staff can help out our colleagues in the KPCC newsroom and on our other shows.
        Movies, music, TV, arts and entertainment, straight from Southern California.
            Latest Mar.27
              For Marc Maron, Timing Is Everything
  What's popular now on KPCC
          Call For Administration's COVID-19 Vaccine Contracts To Be Disclosed 
          A Coronavirus Vaccine Could Kill Half A Million Sharks, Conservationists Warn
          Despite Surge In Volunteers, Some Swing States Still Need Poll Workers
          Judge Rules Against Texas Limit Of One Drop-Off Site Per County For Absentee Ballots
    KPCC's  coverage is a Southern California resource provided by member-supported public radio. We can't do it without you.
    Your contributions power KPCC.  Give today.
      The Voice of Southern California
        Support the voices you trust. Donate now.
        Local
        US &amp; World
        Arts &amp; Entertainment
        Crime &amp; Justice
        Take Two
        AirTalk
        Off-Ramp
        The Frame
        Program Schedule
        Programs A-Z
        KPCC In Person
        About KPCC
        Contact Us
        Staff Directory
        Careers
        Donate Your Vehicle
        News
        Programs
        Events
        Support
        About
        Our Partners
        Terms &amp; Conditions
        Privacy
        Feedback
        © 2020 Southern California Public Radio
          Play
          Pause
          /
              Download
            Mute
            Unmute
            X
