https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/news/en/
This page is archived and is not being updated. For most up-to-date information, please visit the News Releases page.
Access
Emergencies
Menu
Disease outbreaks - news, press releases, features
2019
WHO Director-General reiterates commitment to Ebola response despite another attack
9 March 2019 - WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus today visited an Ebola treatment centre in Butembo, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, that was attacked by armed groups last week and again earlier today.
WHO expresses concern over damage to Ebola treatment facilities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
28 February 2019 - WHO is deeply concerned about the recent attacks on the Médecins Sans Frontierères (MSF)-run Ebola treatment centres on 24 February in Katwa and on 27 February in Butembo in DRC. WHO and partners are working to ensure the safety of the patients and staff.
Recommended composition of influenza virus vaccines for use in the 2019-2020 northern hemisphere influenza season
21 February 2019 - The periodic replacement of viruses contained in influenza vaccines is necessary in order for the vaccines to be effective due to the constant evolving nature of influenza viruses, including those circulating and infecting humans.
A programme of care for Ebola survivors
20 February 2019 - As he does every month, Faustin Kalivanda, a father of four, returns to the Beni General Hospital for a check-up. But this isn't a routine check-up. Kalivanda has survived Ebola and was under treatment at this very hospital until November.
Social science training enhances community engagement in health emergencies in 11 countries of the European Region
6 February 2019 - The SocialNET training, a global initiative of WHO, was the first of its kind in the European Region and was held in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan on 10-14 December 2018.
Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States in Nigeria declare end of cholera outbreaks
21 January 2019 - In a synchronized event, the Commissioners of Health in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States recently declared the end of the cholera outbreak. It has been over 2 weeks since the last cases were detected.
Women join hands to oust Ebola from Democratic Republic of the Congo
11 January 2019 - For the past 12 years, Mama Mwatatu has hosted a call-in radio talk show called “Women and Development”. Recently, she teamed up with WHO's community engagement team to get the answers to more technical questions that were coming from her audience.
News, press releases, features archive
This page links to all technical and general information on pandemic and epidemic-prone diseases as well as outbreaks
Pandemic and epidemic diseases
You might also be interested in
The ICG was established in 1997, following major outbreaks of meningitis in Africa, as a mechanism to manage and coordinate the provision of emergency vaccine supplies and antibiotics to countries during major outbreaks. Working closely with vaccine producers, through WHO and UNICEF, and following disease trends, the ICG monitors its vaccine security global stock levels for cholera, meningitis and yellow fever to ensure availability of sufficient supply to respond to disease outbreaks when they occur.
You are here:
