Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home &gt; 
Legal/Privacy Information
Teacher Directory
Educational Games
Educational Research
Printable Page Makers 
Professional Development 
Student Safe Search Engines
Teacher Software
Teaching Glossary
Teacher Web Polls
Teacher Web Site Maker 
Worksheet Makers
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
Terms of Use for TeAch-nology.com
This site ("Site") is owned and operated by Teachnology, 
Incorporated. The contents of this "Site", including 
the title, TeAch-nology.com logo, original text, images, 
audio, and video, are copyrighted and should not be distributed, 
modified, reproduced, or used, in whole or in part, without the 
prior written consent of Teachnology, Inc.
Privacy Policy
In general, you can visit this "Site" 
without telling us who you are or providing any information about 
yourself. The only time www.teach-nology.com receives identifying 
information that could be deemed private, is when you opt-in to 
our e-mail newsletter. In case you wish to take your name off 
a mailing list, or want to update your information, (i.e., change 
your address), you may do so at any time.
Trademark Information.
TEACH-NOLOGY - The art and science of teaching 
with technology is a United States registered trademark licensed 
to Teachnology, Inc. Acrobat and the Acrobat 
logo are trademarks of Adobe Systems, Incorporated. All other 
products and brand names are trademarks and/or registered trademarks 
of their respective companies. Teachnology, Inc.disclaims 
any and all rights in these marks, third party companies, and 
products.
Third Party Content
www.teach-nology.com publishes a variety 
of free content that is submitted by outside users. Teachnology, 
Inc. requests your assistance in avoiding any possible violation 
of copyright law regarding the content of these pages. The author 
has made every effort to give proper credit where necessary. However, 
if you believe any of this material is yours or is being used 
inappropriately, please contact 
us so the situation can be addressed immediately.
Third Party Companies and Products
www.teach-nology.com provides this information 
only as a convenience to users and www.teach-nology.com 
makes no representation whatsoever regarding the content of any 
other web sites. When you access a non-TeAch-nology.com 
site, please understand that it is independent from www.teach-nology.com 
and that www.teach-nology.com has no control over the 
contents on that web site. www.teach-nology.com makes no 
representations regarding the quality, safety, or suitability 
of any products by third party companies. All third party products 
must be ordered directly from the vendor. All licenses and warranties, 
if any, are made between you and the vendor.
Third Party Advertising
We use Google 
and other third-party advertising companies to serve ads when 
you visit our web site. These companies may use information (not 
including your name, address, email address or telephone number) 
about your visits to this and other web sites in order to provide 
advertisements on this site and other sites about goods and services 
of interest to you. You may opt out of the use of this information 
by Google by visiting the Google 
ad and content network privacy policy.
Third Party Cookies
In the course of serving advertisements to this 
site, our third-party advertiser may place or recognize a unique 
"cookie" on your browser.
Feedback
Any feedback you provide at this "Site" 
shall be deemed to be non-confidential. www.teach-nology.com 
and its affiliates shall be free to use such information for 
any purpose on an unrestricted basis.
Disclaimer
www.teach-nology.com intends for the information 
and data contained in the "Site" to be accurate and 
reliable. However, since the information and data have been compiled 
by www.teach-nology.com from a variety of sources, THE 
MATERIALS IN THIS SITE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES 
OF ANY KIND EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.
Limitation of Liability
Teachnology, Inc. shall not be liable for 
any special or consequential damages that result from the use 
of, or the inability to use, the materials in this "Site," 
even if Teachnology, Inc. has been advised of the possibility 
of such damages. Applicable law may not allow the limitation or 
exclusion of liability or incidental or consequential damages, 
in which case the above limitation or exclusion will not apply 
to you.
Ownership of User Generated Content with Our 
Software
Any content created in part or whole through the 
use of any of our software may appear on any of Teachnology, 
Inc.'s web sites at any time. When using any of Teachnology, 
Inc.'s tools users are granting the right to re-use, distribute, 
remix, tweak, and build upon their work.
Update of Terms and Conditions Herein
www.teach-nology.com may, from time to time, 
revise these Terms and Conditions by updating this posting. 
You should therefore periodically visit this page to review the 
current Terms and Conditions, so you are aware of any such 
revisions to which you are bound.
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
