	Browse
	Search
                    Quizzes
                    Games
                    On This Day
                        Login
   Subscribe  Now
            Entertainment &amp; Pop Culture
            Geography &amp; Travel
            Health &amp; Medicine
            Lifestyles &amp; Social Issues
            Literature
            Philosophy &amp; Religion
            Politics, Law &amp; Government
            Science
            Sports &amp; Recreation
            Technology
            Visual Arts
            World History
            Quizzes
            Games
            On This Day
            Biographies
            Demystified
            Lists
            #WTFact
            Companions
            Image Galleries
            Spotlight
            Entertainment &amp; Pop Culture
            Geography &amp; Travel
            Health &amp; Medicine
            Lifestyles &amp; Social Issues
            Literature
            Philosophy &amp; Religion
            Politics, Law &amp; Government
            Science
            Sports &amp; Recreation
            Technology
            Visual Arts
            World History
            Britannica ClassicsCheck out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives.
            Britannica ExplainsIn these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions.
            Demystified VideosIn Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions.
            This Week in HistoryIn these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history.
            #WTFact VideosIn #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find.
					Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
					Nigerian feminist and political leader
			Article
	Info
	Print
	Cite
	Feedback
             Feedback
				Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article
			     (requires login).
	         Select feedback type:
		         Select a type (Required)
		         Factual Correction
		         Spelling/Grammar Correction
		         Link Correction
		         Additional Information
		         Other
				 Submit Feedback
             Thank you for your feedback
             Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
                 Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work!
	Share
        SHARE
        Facebook
        Twitter
			Home
						Lifestyles &amp; Social Issues
						Human Rights
Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
		Nigerian feminist and political leader
	WRITTEN BY
			The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
			Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree....
			See Article History
				Alternative Titles:
				Frances Abigail Olufunmilayo Thomas, Funmilayo Anikulapo-Kuti
	    Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, original name Frances Abigail Olufunmilayo Thomas, also called Funmilayo Anikulapo-Kuti,  (born October 25, 1900, Abeokuta, Egbaland [now in Nigeria]—died Lagos, Nigeria), Nigerian feminist and political leader who was the leading advocate of women’s rights in her country during the first half of the 20th century.
            Britannica Explores
            100 Women Trailblazers
            Meet extraordinary women who dared to bring gender equality and other issues to the forefront. From overcoming oppression, to breaking rules, to reimagining the world or waging a rebellion, these women of history have a story to tell.
 Her parents were Christians of Yoruba descent. She was the first female student at the Abeokuta Grammar School (a secondary school), which she attended from 1914 to 1917. After teaching briefly at the school, she studied in England (1919–23), where she dropped her English names and shortened her Yoruba name to Funmilayo. Having resumed teaching at Abeokuta, she married Israel Oludotun Ransome-Kuti, an Anglican clergyman and teacher, in 1925.In 1932, when her husband became principal of the Abeokuta school, she helped organize the Abeokuta Ladies Club (ALC), initially a civic and charitable group of mostly Western-educated Christian women. The organization gradually became more political and feminist in its orientation, and in 1944 it formally admitted market women (women vendors in Abeokuta’s open-air markets), who were generally impoverished, illiterate, and exploited by colonial authorities. In 1946 the ALC changed its name to the Abeokuta Women’s Union (AWU) and opened its membership to all women in Abeokuta. Ransome-Kuti became the first president of the AWU (1946) and headed its successor organizations until her death. Under her leadership the AWU became a national organization, renaming itself the Nigerian Women’s Union (NWU) in 1949 and the Federation of Nigerian Women’s Societies (FNWS) in 1953.The AWU initially campaigned against price controls, which drastically limited the incomes of market women, and for fair treatment of market women by the government. It also protested a special tax on women imposed by the local ruler, Sir Ladapo Ademola II. From 1947 the organization led large demonstrations against Ademola’s government, which led to his temporary abdication in 1949. The broader goals of the AWU included greater educational opportunities for women and girls, the enforcement of sanitary regulations, and the provision of health care and other social services for women. Ransome-Kuti pursued these initiatives with the intention of raising living standards for women and ultimately eliminating the causes of poverty.
Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. 
Subscribe today
Ransome-Kuti served several terms on the local council of Abeokuta between 1949 and 1960. In 1951 she ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the regional assembly as the candidate of the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC), which she had helped found in 1944. In 1953 the FNWS became affiliated with the Women’s International Democratic Federation, and Ransome-Kuti was elected a vice president of the organization. She subsequently lectured in several countries on the conditions of Nigerian women. After the NCNC rejected her bid for a second candidacy for the assembly in 1959, she ran as an independent, which split the NCNC vote and ensured the opposing party’s victory. She was subsequently expelled from the NCNC and formed her own party, the Commoners’ People’s Party, which was disbanded one year later. By this time her political influence in Nigeria and her following among women in Abeokuta had declined significantly.In the early 1970s she changed her surname to Anikulapo-Kuti to further identify herself with Yoruba culture, thereby following the example of her son, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, a popular musician and a fierce critic of Nigeria’s military governments from the 1960s. In 1977 some 1,000 soldiers stormed the family property in Lagos, which Fela had transformed into a commune that he called the Kalakuta Republic. During the assault, soldiers dragged Funmilayo by her hair and threw her out a second-story window. She died of complications from her injuries the following year.
This article was most recently revised and updated by Brian Duignan, Senior Editor.
        Learn More in these related Britannica articles:
                        Nigeria: Political process
                        Women such as Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti (the mother of the musician Fela and human rights activist and physician Beko) actively participated in the colonial struggle, and several women have held ministerial positions in the government. Although Nigerian women may wield influence and political power, particularly at the familial and…
                        Yoruba
                        Yoruba,  one of the three largest ethnic groups of Nigeria, concentrated in the southwestern part of that country. Much smaller, scattered groups live in Benin and northern Togo. The Yoruba numbered more than 20 million at the turn of the 21st century. They speak a language of the Benue-Congo branch…
                        Anglicanism
                        Anglicanism,  one of the major branches of the 16th-century Protestant Reformation and a form of Christianity that includes features of both Protestantism and Roman Catholicism. Anglicanism is loosely organized in the Anglican Communion, a worldwide family of religious bodies that represents the offspring of the Church of England and recognizes…
		    History at your fingertips			
    Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox!
            Email address
        By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice.
       Thank you for subscribing!
       Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox.
	        Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
Quick Facts
	            bornOctober 25, 1900Abeokuta, NigeriadiedLagos, Nigeriarole inwomen’s rights movementnotable family members  son Fela Kuti
			        Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
			        Additional Information
				More About
				Additional Reading
				External Websites
            Rain Queens of Africa - Biography of Funmilayo Anikulapo-Kuti
            The University of Missouri-Kansas City - Biography of Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
            UNESCO - Women in African History - Biography of Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
            Norwegian Council for Africa - Biography of Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti
            Nigerian Communications Commission - Biography of Funmilayo Ransome Kuti
				Article History
				Article Contributors
      Inspire your inbox –
      Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers.
                Enter your email
                Subscribe
            By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica.
            Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email.
       Thank you for subscribing!
       Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox.
        Stay Connected
        Facebook
        Twitter
        YouTube
        Instagram
        Pinterest
            Newsletters
                About Us &amp; Legal Info
                Partner Program
                Contact Us
                Privacy Notice
                Terms of Use
            ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
close
.marketing-slider .close-btn {
  color: white;
}
.marketing-slider .preview {
    background-color: #dd574b ;
    color: #2a313b;
    padding-left:60px;
}
.marketing-slider .preview .orange-circle {
    height: 250px;
    position: absolute;
    width: 70px;
    background-image: url('https://cdn.britannica.com/marketing/marketing/thistle-white.svg');
    background-position: -85px 0px;
    background-size: 150px;
    background-repeat: no-repeat;
    left: 0;
    top: 8px;
    opacity: 0.5;
}
.marketing-slider .offer .md-button-gradient {
   font-size: 12px;
   background:#F87307; 
}
    A lively and informative new podcast for kids that the whole family will enjoy!
