      Heraclitus
Dr William Large
      Last
week you were
introduced to the first beginnings of Greek philosophy, and I tried to
show how
relevant this philosophy is to you, since your own present day world
picture is
to some extent a product of it. I tried to show you how the way the
Presocratics thought about the world is much the same as ours, not only
in the
beginning of the development of scientific and rational thinking, but
more
importantly as the laying of the foundations of the fundamental
language which
we use to express our basic experience of the world; a language that I
called metaphysics. I also put forward the
claim that this view of the world, which is still today our world-view,
is
greatly different from the mythical and religious conception of the
world that
you find in the first verses of Genesis, for example, or the poems of
Hesiod.
      In the next two weeks,
we shall look at
two of perhaps the most important Presocratic philosophers, Heraclitus
and
Parmenides. They are important for us because they were significant
influences
on the thought of Plato, but also because they offer two very different
versions of philosophy, which is still the main fault line within
philosophy
today.
      Heraclitus was born in Ephesus
at the end
of the 6th and beginning of the 5th century BC His writings are even
more
gnomic than the already obscure writing of the Presocratics as whole.
Again,
like the other Presocratics, we only know of Heraclitus through the
summaries
and quotations of his works made by other philosophers long after his
death.
      One of these
philosophers, who is the
greatest source of our understanding of Heraclitus, is Plato himself,
because he
saw one of the main aims of his own philosophy was to defeat the
scepticism
that he believed was the inevitable consequence of Heraclitus’ way of
thinking.
Because Plato saw Heraclitus as his opponent, he tended to give only a
one-sided view of his philosophy. But because this one-sided view is
the way
that Heraclitus has passed down into tradition, because of the fame and
influence
of Plato himself, it is worth, first of all, examining this
interpretation.
      At the heart of Plato's
interpretation of
Heraclitus is the fragments concerning the river, which some of you
might have
heard before, since it is the most famous of Heraclitus’ images.
      For, according to Heraclitus, it is not
possible to step into the same river, nor is it possible to touch a
mortal
substance twice in so far as its state is concerned.[1]
      Plato himself describes the same image as
follows:
      Heraclitus says somewhere that all things
are in movement and nothing stays put, and likening the real to the
flowing of
a river, he says that one could not step twice into the same river.[2]
      Now how does Plato, and
those after him,
who took his interpretation of Heraclitus to be right one, understand
this
image of the river? They understand Heraclitus to be saying that the
world we
see with our senses is constantly changing, like the river flowing past
the
onlooker. All the things that exist are coming into existence or going
out of existence.
To our uneducated person it might appear that existence is stable and
permanent. I look at the chair in front of me and then I look at it
again, and
it still appears to me as the same chair. But this is an illusion, for
even in
that small period of time it has undergone imperceptible changes. And
this is
true not only for this individual chair, but for all existing things
and for
the universe itself in which these things exist.  To
use Aristotle’s example in the  Physics,
reality is like a rock being worn
down by drops of water, although in the moment in which we are looking
at the
stone nothing appears to be changing, when we return months or even
years later
the rock has been hollowed out by the water. What appears stable on the
surface
to the uneducated human eye conceals continual change.[3] The physical material world is neither stable nor
permanent; it is
the world of becoming and movement. It is another dialogue by Plato,
the Symposium, where we can find have
a excellent description of this unstable world of
change:
      Even during the period for which any
living
being is said to live and retain his identity - as a man, for example,
is
called the same man from boyhood to old age - he does not in fact
retain the
same attributes, although he is called the same person: he is always
becoming a
new being and undergoing a process of loss and reparation, which
affects his
hair, his flesh, his bones, his blood and his whole body. And not only
his
body, but his soul as well. No man's character, habits, opinions
desires
pleasures pains and fears remain always the same: new ones come into
existence
and old ones disappear.[4]
      This seems a plausible
explanation of
reality. So why would Plato believe that the consequences of holding it
to be
so dangerous to the ambitions of a rational account of the universe?
Because,
if this flux of change were the only possible description of existence,
then
knowledge would not be possible, since knowledge depends on permanence
and
stability. It appears that the necessary outcome of the doctrine of
flux is
scepticism. How would it be possible to define anything, if as soon as
I called
it a name, it changed into something else? A disciple of Heraclitus,
Cratylus,
took this doctrine so far as to assert that the only credible position
would
therefore be silence.[5] How could one know something truly if it were always
changing?
Common sense would not have a problem here, since it lives in the world
of
change as though it were permanent and stable. But the knowledge of
which Plato
speaks, which according to him is the highest desire of the human soul,
is
scientific and philosophical knowledge. This knowledge can only be true
knowledge if what it asserts is not merely true for one moment of
reality, but
for all time. Thus, he needs to show that Heraclitus’ description of a
constantly changing physical universe cannot be the description of what
reality
is. He does this not by discounting that the physical universe is
changing,
which would be to return to the ignorance of the common man, but saying
that
knowledge is not dependent on this sensible reality of change, but
another
realm of existence altogether, which is the realm of the Forms or the
Ideas,
and which is, on the contrary, eternal and immutable. We shall examine
this
theory later in this course.
      But has Plato given us
the whole story of
Heraclitus? I think not. He is only giving us one side. For although
one side
of Heraclitus’ philosophy is that everything is changing, the other
side is
that within this change there is unity and it is this speculative
synthesis of
diversity and identity, or order and chaos, as we would say in our
modern
jargon, which is entirely missing in Plato’s account. This speculative
synthesis is Heraclitus’s doctrine of the logos
(remember this word from the first lecture?).
Unity within change and change within unity, this is the pattern or the
law of
the universe for Heraclitus. He wants to say that this pattern is not
visible
to everyone. ‘Nature’, he says ‘loves to conceal itself'’.[6] It is for this reason too that Heraclitus writes so
enigmatically
and obscurely. Nature’s concealment means that it is not open to
everyone to
know its truth.  Heraclitus writes, “Most
people do not understand the things they meet with, nor do they know
when they
have learned, but they seem to themselves to do so.”[7] Again it is a question of looking deeper into things
than we
normally do. First of all we need to go beyond the false stability of
common-sense, and realise that beneath the apparent stability of things
there
is only becoming, but then we need to look even further, into the
becoming as
well and realise that all existent things in the world are this one and
the
same becoming which is constantly changing and this one and the same
becoming
is the universe.
      The one mistake we can
make here is to
think that the difference between the one and becoming is a difference
between
two different levels of being, which would be precisely to read Heraclitus through Plato’s eyes. This
would mean that becoming would be one level of being, corresponding to
the
physical world, and the unity of becoming would be another level of
being,
corresponding to the logos, to
thought. But Heraclitus is not a dualist. He has no sense of a world
down here,
which would be finite and changeable and another world beyond this
world, which
would be eternal and immutable. As we shall see, this division between
two
worlds does not appear in Greek philosophy until Parmenides and is only
consolidated as a world-picture by Plato (this kind of world-picture
has, of
course, important consequences for the development of Christianity).
For
Heraclitus there is only the one world: the one universe, the one
cosmos which
is at one and the same time changing and the same. One can imagine it
as
follows: from the perspective of separate things in the universe
everything is
in flux and in motion, but from a different perspective, from the
perspective
of the whole, which is the sum of all these different things, it is the
same
which changes, but even though it is changing, it still the one and the
same.
This is a very paradoxical and difficult thought, and Heraclitus does
not make
it any easier for us in the manner in which he describes it:
      Things grasped together: things whole,
things not whole; being brought together, being separated; consonant,
dissonant. Out of all things one thing, out of one thing all things.[8]
      The oneness of the universe is not to be
though through the image of a fixed and frozen identity, but as the
unity of
opposing forces. Becoming is not only to be understood as one thing
changing
into another, but also as the conflict between one thing and another.
One thing
changes into something else, because of the force of another thing. A
rock
slowly changes its shape by the pressure of the water that is flowing
across it.
From one perspective, the world then appears to be disordered and all
things
are constantly at war with one another. But from another perspective,
the
perspective of the one, all opposing forces in the world balance each
other
out, and out of this strife is created harmony and equilibrium. Unlike
the
Pythagoreans, this harmony for Heraclitus is not external or beyond the
world
of opposition and strife; it is this world seen from another
perspective. Again
Heraclitus can only express this difficulty idea through an image: 
      They do not understand how, while
differing
from it is in agreement with itself. There is a back turning
connection, like
that of a bow or a lyre. [9]
      The one, the law, the
unity, the logos,
the sense, direction of the universe is not something external to it,
but
immanent. The logos and becoming are one and the same thing, looked at
from a
different aspects. The one is not above becoming; it is becoming, just
as
becoming is not below the one, but is the one. There is a verse of
Wordsworth’s
poem Tintern Abbey that seems to be
to capture a part of what Heraclitus obscurely communicates to us of
the
mysterious and mystical unity of all things:
      And I
have felt a presence that disturbs me with the joy of 
      elevated thoughts;
      a sense sublime of
something far more deeply interfused, 
whose dwelling is the light of setting
suns, and the round ocean,
      and
the living air, and the blue
sky, and the mind of man
      a motion and a
spirit, that impels all thinking things, all objects of
      all thought and
rolls through all things[10]
      [1] Fragment 91, from Heraclitus,
ed. &amp; trans. by T.M. Robinson, (Toronto: University of Toronto
Press, 1987)
p. 55.
      [2] Cratylus 402a
      [3]Aristotle, Physics
253b9.  Referred to by W.K.C. Guthrie, The Earlier Presocratics and the
Pythagoreans, The History of Greek Philosophy, Vol. 1 (Cambridge:
CUP,
1962), p. 451
      [4] Symposium, 207d
      [5] Cf., op. cit. Guthrie, p. 450
      [6] op. cit. Heraclitus,
Fragment 123, p. 71.
      [7] op. cit. Heraclitus,
Fragment 17
      [8] ibid., fragment 10, p. 15.
      [9] ibid. Fragment 51, p. 37.
      [10] Wordsworth, Tintern Abbey.
back to WLpage
