          Skip to content
          Accessibility
              Home
              Products and Features
              For Developers
              For Customers and Partners
              Initiatives and Research
              Get In Touch
              Accessibility
                Home
                Products and Features
                For Developers
                For Customers and Partners
                Initiatives and Research
                Get In Touch
              Close navigation drawer
        Initiatives and Research
      Google’s support of accessibility extends beyond products to include research, education, and design efforts.
              Accessible Web Initiatives
              Google actively promotes an accessible web by serving on standards and advisory committees. We're currently involved with the organizations below, and we'll continue to update this site as we make progress in our offerings.
                  FCC Video Programming Accessibility Advisory Committee (VPAAC)
                Created by the FCC to develop recommendations for increasing accessibility to video content in various forms, the VPAAC included an appointee from Google, which Naomi Black and Ken Harrenstien shared over a two-year term. Read more about the VPAAC &gt;
                  FCC Consumer Advisory Committee (CAC)
                The purpose of the CAC is to make recommendations to the FCC regarding consumer issues, including accessibility. Eve Andersson served as a member of the CAC for a two-year term. Read more about the CAC &gt;
                  Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
                The WCAG is one of the most widely-accepted international standards for accessibility. Two Google employees are involved in the WCAG. Loretta Guarino Reid, a senior software engineer, is one of the editors of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0. Shawn Lauriat, a senior software engineer, serves as a member of the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group.
                  Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities
                To further our commitment to accessibility, we have launched a global initiative called Google Impact Challenge: Disabilities. The program advances ideas and emerging technologies that increase independence and opportunity for people with disabilities. Learn more about the Google Impact Challenge for Disabilities &gt;
                    Tech Transformation
                    Length of video: 1 minute 11 seconds
                            Open in new window
              User Experience
              One of Google's core principles is "Focus on the user and all else will follow." The Google User Experience (UX) team believes that usability and accessibility go together. We integrate accessible design thinking throughout the entire product development cycle.
Our UX Researchers work with people from all backgrounds and with a variety of abilities in order to understand what matters to our users in their daily lives. Based on these insights, we aim to design products that are inclusive and consider the needs of all users. People who are interested can sign up to participate in user studies and get rewarded for their time.
                    A Day with Jeff—
Technology and Essential Tremor
                    Length of video: 12 minutes 50 seconds
                            Open in new window
                          Hear audio described version
                    A Day with Danny—
Technology and Cerebral Palsy
                    Length of video: 11 minutes 32 seconds
                            Open in new window
                          Hear audio described version
              Accessibility Trusted Tester program
              Our Accessibility Trusted Tester program is one way that we gather feedback about Google products. Testers try new Google products before the general public, then provide feedback directly to Google engineering teams.
              If you're passionate about providing feedback and improving accessibility, we invite you to learn more and apply for the Accessibility Trusted Tester program.
                  Accessibility communities
                    Join the conversation and connect with others about accessibility-related topics.
                    Join Accessibility forum
                    Join Eyes-free email list
                Research and Education
                  Faculty Research Awards Program
                  Through our Faculty Research Awards program, we support academic research that has the potential to directly impact the lives of people with disabilities globally. Since the program began in 2005, we've provided funding to dozens of accessibility-related research projects in topic areas including Speech, Human-Computer Interaction, Mobile, and Education Innovation. The full list of Research Awards recipients can be found on the Google Research Blog.
                  Education Initiatives
                  In order to raise awareness about accessibility and promote accessible development, we're involved in the following initiatives: 
In the Teaching Accessibility working group, we work with industry partners to integrate accessibility into the Computer Science curriculums at universities.
We provide free, open-source Web and Android accessibility testing tools to developers (Chrome Accessibility Developer Tools and Android Accessibility Testing Framework).
We provide a free online course, Introduction to Web Accessibility, open to anyone in the world. 
We publish papers such as "Enhancing Android Accessibility for Users with Hand Tremor by Reducing Fine Pointing and Steady Tapping" by Yu Zhong, Astrid Weber, Casey Burkhardt, Phil Weaver, and Jeffrey P. Bigham in order to share learnings with others who develop accessibility solutions.
              Projects supported by Google
ASL-STEM Project Richard Ladner, University of Washington
MobileASL via Android Eve Riskin, University of Washington
NavPal: Mobile Navigation Aid for the Visually Impaired M. Bernardine Dias, Carnegie Mellon University
  Back to top
          Follow us
              @googleaccess
            Home
            Products and Features
            For Developers
            For Customers and Partners
            Initiatives and Research
            Get In Touch
            About Google
            Privacy
            Terms
          Change language or region
              English
              Deutsch
              English (United Kingdom)
              español (Latinoamérica)
              español
              français
              italiano
              日本語
              한국어
              Nederlands
              polski
              português (Brasil)
              русский
              ไทย
              Türkçe
              中文 (简体)
              中文 (繁體)
