            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Blog
                            The Education Policy Angle on “Fleishman Is In Trouble”
					“Homework!...The cost-benefit of after-school homework.”
                                By Ira Stoll                                                                                                                            
		Ira Stoll
For a certain high-profile literary crowd in Manhattan and beyond, the fun novel of the summer is Taffy Brodesser-Akner’s debut, Fleishman Is In Trouble. The editor of the New York Times book review, Pamela Paul, tweeted about it this past weekend. Monica Lewinsky tweeted about it.
Brodesser-Akner is a Times reporter best known for lengthy profiles of celebrity characters such as actress-entrepreneur Gwyneth Paltrow and figure skater-felon Tonya Harding. Her book, published by Random House on June 18, is about sex, divorce, money, gender, and the perilous intersection of aging and ambition.
So what, if anything, does all of that have to do with education policy research?
Sure enough, there is an angle. It’s a brief enough passage to be quotable in full:
Miriam Rothberg was the closest the kids’ school had to royalty. Miriam didn’t even have to serve on the Parents Association. She and her money funded just about every single school initiative, which put her in this constant kind of advisor role for all the committees. She had so much power that she’d actually gotten homework eliminated completely—completely! homework!— in the lower school after “urging” the nervous, anemic principal to read through a three-hundred-page document she’d hired an education PhD from Barnard to assemble about the cost-benefit of after-school homework.
Three sentences, but they pack a policy punch. Though Barnard College does not grant an “education PhD,” the rest of the story has a ring of plausibility, or is close enough to qualify as satire rather than sheer fantasy. Homework is certainly a contentious issue among parents and researchers. An article in the Winter 2019 issue of Education Next, “The Case for (Quality) Homework,” reviewed the evidence and concluded, “In sum, the relationship between homework and academic achievement in the elementary-school years is not yet established, but eliminating homework at this level would do children and their families a huge disservice.” It also noted “media reports of parents revolting against the practice of homework.”
As for the ability of major donors to purchase academic research and to use it to influence school policy at “independent” schools — well, from the context, it sounds like the fictional Miriam Rothberg was pursuing what Grover J. “Russ” Whitehurst, in another Education Next context (“Should Schools Embrace Social and Emotional Learning?”), memorably called “policy-based evidence-making.” That is a hazard in the field.
As for donor clout, it’s safe to say that just as public schools have interest-group politics involving politicians, teachers unions, and parent-voters, independent schools are not without politics of their own. A 1992 paper, “Emerging Issues in K-12 Independent School Governance,” by Pearl Rock Kane reported, “the consumerist attitude toward independent schools has replaced the familial feeling that once characterized the relationship.” Kane, who died earlier this year, was for nearly 40 years the director of the Klingenstein Center for Independent School Leadership, which is at Teachers College, Columbia University. She also conducted a terrific interview with Milton Friedman (“Choice and Freedom”) that appeared in the Winter 2003 issue of Education Next. Though Kane’s distinction between a “consumer attitude” and a “familial feeling” may feel a bit too neat and sharp (a topic for the rest of Brodesser-Akner’s book), there’s probably also something accurate about that description, both for better and for worse.
Ira Stoll is managing editor of Education Next.
					Last updated July 19, 2019
					License this Content
			Ira StollAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Does the Baumol Effect Explain Rising College Costs?
            July 18, 2019
            Next Article
            A Rising Economic Tide + Reform + Resources = Better Results
            July 22, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		When Public Opinion on Policy Is Driven by Misconceptions, Refute Them
		by Morgan S. Polikoff
		EdNext Podcast: What Studies Really Show about Social and Emotional Learning
		by Education Next
		Boston Charter Study Tells Story About Limits of Test Scores
					“It is all too common for researchers to misinterpret the policy implications of these experiments, even when they are properly conducted.”
		by Jay P. Greene
                                    Ira Stoll	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
