            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionStandards, Testing, and AccountabilityState Policy
                            Low-Performing Students No Longer Making Gains on NAEP
                                By Susanna Loeb                                                                                                                            
		Susanna Loeb
The results from the 2017 National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) are out. These assessments are the only assessment of student achievement that allow for comparisons across all the states, across some large school districts, across a range of subgroups, and over time. This year more caution is warranted given the change to online administration. Nonetheless, NAEP provides our best indication of national trends.
What do the new data show? In summary, very little change. The increasing scores and decreasing achievement gaps evident in the first few years of the century have leveled off. Math results are unchanged in both 4th and 8th grade, and while reading results are one point higher in 8th grade than they were in 2015, they were two points lower in 2015 than in 2013. The positive trends in scores, especially for mathematics, during the first few years of the 21st century have leveled off and the scores are roughly the same as they were a decade ago, though we haven’t lost the gains from that last boost. The changes evident for states are tempting to latch onto – no states increased their 4th grade reading but nine states saw decreases. Nonetheless, more than half of those decreasing states were among the handful of states to show progress in 4th grade reading on the last round of NAEP assessments. Some changes from year to year are not due to embedded improvement but instead to chance differences across cohorts. Those ups and downs are part of an unusually stable trend. Not only haven’t average scores improved, racial/ethnic and income gaps haven’t closed. The beginning of the century again saw a small closing of racial and ethnic achievement gaps, but over the over the last eight years NAEP shows little movement, though no increases.
Substantial stability in math and reading is the key finding from this round of assessments, but one pattern in the data is worth keeping an eye on: the spread of the achievement distribution. The gains in test performance in the early 2000s were driven by particularly strong gains for the lowest performing students. This pattern held for both 4th and 8th graders and for both reading and math. However, that trend appears to be reversing. In 2015 scores in mathematics decreased for low- and mid-performing 4th graders compared to 2013, and this year we again see a decrease for lower performers in 4th grade math, as well as in reading, while such a decrease is not evident for higher performers. Moreover, higher performers in 8th grade saw increasing scores while middle and low performers did not. This spread in achievement differences across students is not necessarily problematic. Students vary in their academic strengths. Those that falter in one area may excel in another. Yet some reading and math skills are increasingly necessary to thrive and to contribute to others. To the extent that this pattern reflects a reduced focus on low-performing students it may signal decreasing opportunity for the most struggling students to gain the skills they will need as then enter adulthood. Such a trend warrants closer inspection.
— Susanna Loeb
Susanna Loeb is the Barnett Family Professor of Education at Stanford University, faculty director of CEPA Labs, and a co-director of Policy Analysis for California Education.
This post is part of a series from Education Next analyzing the 2017 results from the National Assessment of Educational Progress. Click here to check out the series, and stay tuned throughout the week of April 10 for more analysis
					Last updated April 10, 2018
					License this Content
			Susanna LoebAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Who Is in Special Education and Who Has Access to Related Services?
            April 9, 2018
            Next Article
            5 Thoughts on the Teacher Strikes
            April 11, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Could the Disappointing 2017 NAEP Scores Be Due to the Great Recession?
		by C. Kirabo Jackson
		Latest NAEP Results: Obama Administration Fails U. S. Students
		by Paul E. Peterson
		A Disappointing National Report Card
		by Martin R. West
                                    Susanna Loeb	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
