            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            How Harvard Hurts Small Colleges
                                By Michael B. Horn                                                                                                                            
		Michael B. Horn
Over a quarter of existing colleges will likely fail—that is, close, merge, or declare bankruptcy—in the next 15 years. But a more massive set of failures over a longer timeline isn’t out of the question—closer to Harvard professor Clayton Christensen’s prediction that 50% of all colleges will fail in the next decade.
There will be several drivers of the failures—a broken business model, a demographic cliff, and disruptive innovation in the form of faster and cheaper options.
But an additional driver that falls under the heading of broken business model is the role that Harvard and other well-endowed colleges and universities will play in the struggles of small colleges that have historically had strong reputations.
As Holden Thorp, provost at Washington University in St. Louis, and Buck Goldstein, entrepreneur in residence at UNC-Chapel Hill, write in Our Higher Calling: Rebuilding the Partnership between America and Its Colleges &amp; Universities, over the last couple of decades, elite private institutions have dramatically increased financial assistance based on need, such that roughly 100 institutions claim to have need-blind admissions.
Despite the rising sticker price at Harvard—full tuition plus room and board now cost over $70,000—according to Harvard, 90% of American families would pay “the same or less to send their children to Harvard as they would a state school.” For students whose families make less than $65,000, Harvard doesn’t expect their parents to contribute any money. Families making between $65,000 and $150,000 a year will generally contribute between 0 –10% of their income.
And Harvard is not an exception among its peers.
This financial aid dynamic has placed significant pressure on small colleges that lack large endowments.
Posting high sticker prices—Newbury College, which recently announced it will close at the end of the academic year, charged over $47,000 in tuition plus room and board in its most recent year, for example—in an environment where there are higher quality options that are more affordable feels untenable.
So institutions with small endowments discount tuition. But they often do so based on merit, not need, so as to try to maintain the academic “quality” of the incoming class for ranking purposes so they can preserve the desirability of attending their campus. That leaves even more revenue on the table for institutions because presumably some of the recipients of that aid could pay more than they do.
This practice of offering tuition discounts to remain affordable is increasingly untenable in an environment of rising costs where the institutions can’t rely on the endowment, alumni gifts, or other sources to make up the difference in revenue.
Most of the nation’s thousands of colleges and universities arguably fall into that category, as most colleges lack the endowments that places like Harvard, Yale, Stanford, and Princeton have. Just 11% of universities hold roughly 75% of the $500 billion in endowment wealth in the United States, which means most institutions fall into the “have not” category.
And although the total amount of alumni giving to universities is up—it ticked in at $11.37 billion in 2017, which was up 14.5% from the year prior—the number of alumni who give has fallen. Fewer younger donors give. Only 5% of alumni from public universities donate, and just 18% of private university alumni give.
What that means is fewer people are giving bigger gifts—like Michael Bloomberg’s $1.8 billion gift to John Hopkins—and most of those gifts are going to well-off elite institutions (there are some exceptions, but not many).
This kicks off a cycle where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.
That doesn’t mean that Harvard should be doing anything different from what it is doing. Expanding access to those who can’t afford Harvard is good.
But its actions—and those of its peers—will contribute to more college failures over time.
— Michael Horn
Michael Horn is a co-founder of and a distinguished fellow at the Clayton Christensen Institute for Disruptive Innovation.
This post originally appeared on ChristensenInstitute.org.
					Last updated January 29, 2019
					License this Content
			Michael B. HornAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            A Response to “Texting Nudges Harm Degree Completion”
            January 28, 2019
            Next Article
            How Researchers and Policymakers Can Support Better Practices in Schools
            January 30, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Accreditation’s Insidious Impact on Higher Education Innovation
		by Michael B. Horn
		The Disruptive Playbook for Bootcamps to Upend Higher Education
		by Michael B. Horn
		What Jobs Do Learners Hire Education To Do After High School?
		by Bruno V. Manno
                                    Michael B. Horn	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
