            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        EdNext Podcast
                            EdNext Podcast: Why Some Schools Are Responding Well to the Pandemic
					“There’s just something magical about being live.”
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
EdNext Podcast · Ep. 203 – June 3, 2020: Why Some Schools Are Responding Well to the Pandemic
			The CEO of the Silicon Schools Fund, Brian Greenberg, joins Education Next Editor-in-chief Marty West to discuss how some schools have transitioned well to distance learning during the Covid-19 pandemic, and others have struggled.
Successful schools, Greenberg says, “had such deep relationships with these kids and such a moral purpose in what they were doing, it felt unconscionable to just take a week or a month or three months off and come back and see where the kids had landed.”
By contrast, “if you’re in a highly rule-bound organization where there is not a sense of teamwork, where there’s not trust, where there’s not an overall commitment to high quality, I would go as far as to say it is impossible to make the jump to distance learning with any quality.”
Greenberg’s post, “What We’ve Learned from Distance Learning, and What it Means for the Future,” is available now.
The EdNext Podcast is available on iTunes, Google Play, Soundcloud, Stitcher and here every Wednesday.
— Education Next
					Last updated June 3, 2020
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            EdNext Podcast: Why Fewer Teens Are Working Summer Jobs
            May 28, 2020
            Next Article
            EdNext Podcast: How Students Are Kept Out of the Best Public Schools
            June 10, 2020
We Recommend You Read
		“This Is Going to Be the Hardest Fall We’ve Had Maybe in the Modern History of Education.”
					Silicon Schools CEO on how schools can make a high-quality jump to distance learning
		by Brian Greenberg
		EdNext Podcast: Jeb Bush on Adjusting to Distance Learning During the Pandemic
					“This is the time for innovation to rise up,” Bush says.
		by Education Next
		EdNext Podcast: Results of the 2020 Education Next Survey of Public Opinion
					 Amid a pandemic, a big jump in openness to online learning
		by Education Next
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
