            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogCharter SchoolsOpinionSchool ChoiceState PolicyVouchers and Tax Credits
                            Should Charter Schools Be Pressured to Reduce Suspensions?
                                By Michael J. Petrilli                                                                                                                            
		Michael J. Petrilli
            At the National Charter Schools Conference last week, Secretary of Education John King challenged U.S. charter operators to rethink their approach to discipline and “lead the way on professional reflection and growth.” Though I’ve frequently expressed my worries about the rush to reform the nation’s approach to school discipline, the secretary’s comments were measured and constructive. I was particularly struck by his insistence that there not be any “hard and fast rules or directives.” (He might want to share the speech with his own Office for Civil Rights, which could be renamed the Office for Hard and Fast Rules and Directives.)
Helping charter schools examine and improve their discipline practices is praiseworthy; making them change their approach via top-down dictates is not. (Though I’m really talking about suspensions; expulsions are a different matter, as we do need to worry about open-enrollment public schools pushing kids out.) In my view, it’s totally inappropriate for regulators—especially the feds, but also school authorizers—to get heavy-handed on the suspensions issue, for at least five reasons:
1. The school discipline data collected by the Office for Civil Rights are notoriously fishy; attaching stakes to them will make them even more so because people work to report the data they prefer rather than reality.
2. There’s a big risk that discouraging schools from suspending kids will result in more disorder in the classroom (though in-school suspensions could keep that from happening).
3. More disorder is disastrous for all kids, but especially poor children of color. They make up the vast majority of the nation’s charter school population and have not a minute to spare if they are going to have a shot at college and career readiness.
4. More disorder is expressly not what most parents want when they choose charters (or any schools, for that matter).
5. Because school discipline is so nuanced and so deeply embedded in a school’s culture and practices, it’s precisely the type of issue where charter schools are supposed to have autonomy.
There’s a reasonable case, then, for simply making suspension data transparent to the public and to parents, who can decide which schools to shun and which to patronize. But I’m worried about how it has played out in Washington, where the D.C. Public Charter School Board (DCPCSB) has asked schools to “defend” their suspension numbers. To charters that suspend a high percentage of students, that means dragging their boards in front of DCPCSB for what feels like a Star Chamber proceeding. That sure feels like an effort to change their behavior.
Why is that OK? Why not interrogate them over their curriculum choices too, or their class sizes, or their teacher evaluation systems?
As Jay Greene argued the other day, these kind of authorizer practices resemble those of the bureaucracies that have long stifled traditional public schools. It represents a peremptory attitude and impinges on autonomy and parental choice.
The students who will lose are the poor kids of color who come to school wanting to learn, follow the rules, and work hard. For decades, our big city districts have said to them, “You are not our priority.” I don’t want charter schools to do the same.
* * *
So that’s my take. But what do others think? In the coming days, we will publish reactions to Secretary King’s speech by practitioners and policy analysts involved in the charter school movement. If you’d like to sound off on charter discipline, shoot me a note. Here’s hoping for a constructive dialogue.
—Mike Petrilli
This post originally appeared on Flypaper.
					Last updated July 8, 2016
					License this Content
			Michael J. PetrilliAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            In the News: The Sobering Evidence of Social Science
            July 7, 2016
            Next Article
            Are Teacher Salaries Flat Because of Changing Workforce Demographics?
            July 11, 2016
We Recommend You Read
		Red States and Blue Cities: The Precarious Politics of Charter Schooling Today
		by Michael J. Petrilli
		NYT Hatchet Job on Charters
		by Jay P. Greene
		State ESSA Plans May Use Federal Funds to Start New Charter Schools
		by Michael J. Petrilli
                                    Michael J. Petrilli	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
