            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionStandards, Testing, and AccountabilityState Policy
                            Are Test Scores Good Proxies for School Quality?
                                By Matt Barnum                                                                                                                            
		Matt Barnum
            In a series of blog posts (I, II, III, IV), Jay Greene argues against the “high-regulation approach” to school choice. I’m going to focus on the final two posts, in which Greene argues that student achievement tests are poor proxies for school quality and that they’re not correlated with other measures of quality.
I think Greene is right to a large extent. But he undersells the value of tests.
It’s pretty clear that the ability of a school or teacher to increase students’ standardized test scores is associated with long-run outcomes. Let’s dig in to some evidence:
• The well-known Chetty study used a rigorous quasi-experiment to show that teachers with high value-added scores (which are based on standardized tests) produced higher income, greater college attendance, and lower teen pregnancy among students. (In the comments of his post, Greene acknowledges this study but describes the effects as small. I disagree, considering we are describing the effects of a single teacher at a single grade level.)
• A different Chetty study reports that “students who were randomly assigned to higher-quality classrooms in grades K–3—as measured by classmates’ end-of-class test scores—have higher earnings, college attendance rates, and other outcomes.”
• Hanushek finds that international academic achievement (as measured by PISA scores) was predictive of economic growth, while academic attainment was not. Specifically: “The level of cognitive skills of a nation’s students has a large effect on its subsequent economic growth rate. Increasing the average number of years of schooling attained by the labor force boosts the economy only when increased levels of school attainment also boost cognitive skills.” This appears to contradict Greene’s claim that “attainment is a more meaningful indicator of long-term benefits than achievement test results.”
• Dynarski shows that class size reduction in the Tennesee Project STAR experiment led to short-term achievement gains and long-run attainment gains. Notably, they find that “the short-term effect of a small class on test scores is an excellent predictor of its effect on adult educational attainment. In fact, the effect of small classes on college attendance is completely captured by their positive effect on contemporaneous test scores.”
• Dobbie and Fryer find that attending the Harlem Children’s Zone leads to increased achievement on both high-stakes and low-stakes exams, as well as lower (self-reported) rates of teen pregnancy among girls and incarceration among boys. Greene mentions this study, pointing to the non-significant attainment findings, but does not mention the pregnancy and incarceration effects.
• Deming examines Texas’s test-based accountability system and show that for students at low-performing schools, it led to increased achievement, college attendance, degree attainment, and income earning. Another interesting finding from Deming: “Low-scoring students in schools that were close to achieving a [higher school accountability] rating were actually more likely to graduate from high school despite experiencing significant declines in earnings.” This suggests that, in some cases, attainment may not be a good proxy for school performance.
The Deming finding is a particularly important result because, in contrast to most previous studies, the achievement was measured on a high-stakes exam. It’s clear that we know a lot more about low-stakes assessments than high-stakes ones, though. The evidence suggests that attaching stakes to tests can produce some unintended consequences, but there is reason to believe that it can also lead to gains on low-stakes exams. We could do with a lot more evidence on the relationship between high-stakes tests and long-run outcomes.
Let’s now turn to a second point that Greene makes. “The evidence is increasingly clear,” he writes, “that test scores are only weakly correlated with all of these other desirable outcomes from schools.”
I agree. He points to some examples in school choice studies. This also appears in the teacher quality literature. Jackson shows that teachers’ value-added scores are only weakly correlated with their impacts on non-cognitive outcomes (absences, suspensions, and grades). A study from Jennings and DiPrete produces similar results. Gershenson finds no correlation between teachers’ value-added scores and their impact on student attendance.  And to turn back to school choice for a moment, Imberman finds that charters in an unnamed urban district had no effect on student tests scores—but had large positive effects on discipline and attendance.
I would finally note that achievement tests are not uniform in quality, which may help explain some of the disparate results. As the new generation of supposedly more rigorous Common Core–aligned tests gain hold, it will be important to do additional research on these questions.
To sum up: 1) low-stakes tests appear to measure something meaningful that shows up in long-run outcomes; 2) we don’t know nearly as much about high-stakes exams and long-run outcomes; and 3) there doesn’t seem to be a strong correlation between test-score gain and other measures of quality at either the teacher or school level.
The implications of all this for school choice regulation, however, is a question for another day.
– Matt Barnum
Matt Barnum is the policy and research editor at the Seventy Four. This blog entry first appeared on Flypaper.
					Last updated October 15, 2015
					License this Content
			Matt BarnumAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Education Savings Accounts Are For More Than Just Private School Tuition
            October 14, 2015
            Next Article
            So Far Only Ohio is Backing Off A High Standard for Proficiency
            October 16, 2015
We Recommend You Read
		The Disconnect Between Educational Measures and Life Outcomes
		by Jay P. Greene
		Three Thoughts on the Ugly New PISA Results
		by Frederick Hess
		Boston Charter Study Tells Story About Limits of Test Scores
					“It is all too common for researchers to misinterpret the policy implications of these experiments, even when they are properly conducted.”
		by Jay P. Greene
                                    Matt Barnum	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
