https://www.montgomerycollege.edu/academics/online-learning/distance/advantages-and-disadvantages-online-courses.html
Advantages and Disadvantages of Online Courses
MC is proud to welcome students from 160 different countries around the world. Learn
                                 more about enrolling as an international student.
Ten Advantages of Online Courses
What are the advantages of an online course?
There are probably many more advantages to Internet-based courses, but I think you
                           get the idea. The point is that we live in an ever-changing world that is ripe with
                           new possibility. The ability to learn new information or a new skill whenever you
                           want and wherever you want offers far greater opportunities for education than ever
                           before. The scope and reach of education broadens to far greater horizons that perhaps
                           ever imagined.
Ten Disadvantages of Online Courses
How could there possibly be any disadvantages of online courses? Read on.
Only you are responsible for your learning. I can't force it on you. I can't make
                                          you study. I can share a little knowledge and experience, show you a few tools and
                                          hope you get it. The spark and desire to pursue your dreams must be yours.
So, in a philosophical sort of way, the real disadvantage to an Internet-based course
                                          is that you might not own up to it. You might not take responsibility for your studies
                                          and your goals. You might get way behind and never catch up.
Above used with permission from Sean Chamberlin, Fullerton College
Enroll at MC
Register for winter classes. All winter classes will be fully online in a five-week session.
Register for spring classes. Most spring classes will be fully online until at least spring break. Spring classes
                              will be held in seven-week and 15-week sessions. See the frequently asked questions to learn more.
