            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Courts and LawGovernance and LeadershipNewsThe JournalVol. 13, No. 4
                            More School Dollars!
					School finance claims shuffle back to life
                                By Joshua Dunn                                                                                                                            
		Joshua DunnMartha Derthick
            In their ideal world, school finance reformers would not rely on state-level lawsuits but would look to a reconstituted U.S. Supreme Court, with a liberal majority, to overturn San Antonio v. Rodriguez, the landmark decision of 1973 that declined to strike down Texas’s system of school finance as a violation of equal protection. Were educational equity to be guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution, a whole new world of litigation would be open to them, and interstate as well as intrastate differences and inadequacies could be attacked in federal courts. In the meantime, legislators and governors in Texas and Kansas face yet another round of lawsuits.
The Texas Constitution’s education clause requires the legislature “to establish and make suitable provision for the support and maintenance of an efficient system of public free schools.” Relying on this meager textual material, school finance lawsuits have reached the Texas supreme court five times, with the last decision coming in 2005. Since then, enterprising attorneys have flooded the lower courts with four separate cases. One of them, Texas Taxpayer and Student Fairness Coalition v. Williams, has already been ruled on by a trial court judge and will almost certainly reach the supreme court. In this case, more than two-thirds of Texas’s 1,032 school districts joined in claiming once again that the state does not adequately fund education.
Following a similar script from cases in other states, the plaintiffs claimed that the state could not increase education standards without also increasing funding. This claim proved to be catnip for trial court judge John Dietz. In a meandering, near stream-of-consciousness statement delivered with his ruling, he talked about the wonders of education and how it is obvious that if the state wants higher standards it has to pay more, because “there is no free lunch.” Resolutely leaving no vapid cliché behind, he went on to expound, “It is a fact that the more educated we are, the greater our income will be. The greater our income as a state, the fewer citizens need public assistance. With greater income, the lower the crime rate.” How education can cure virtually every social ill while not being subject to diminishing marginal utility he doesn’t explain.
In Kansas, in response to a supreme court order, the legislature drastically increased funding in 2006, to no discernible educational effect. But as the economy declined, Kansas had to cut spending, and it included education in the cuts. This prompted a large coalition of school districts, which enroll more than 40 percent of the state’s students, to file suit in 2010 claiming that the decline in state revenue could not justify decreasing spending on education. In January 2013, a three-judge district court panel ruled in Gannon v. State that the legislature’s spending reductions were unconstitutional. As in Texas, the panel called upon weepy clichés. The state, it said, was “experimenting with our children” and depriving them of “opportunities” that “do not repeat themselves.” The panel enjoined the state from providing less than $4,492 in per-pupil aid. The import of this decision is that economic reality can have no effect on budgetary decisions. Presumably, even if Kansas’s total tax revenues were less than this amount, the judges would still demand that the legislature provide it.
In response to this ruling, the state appealed, and Kansas governor Sam Brownback successfully asked the state supreme court to order mediation between the state and the complaining school districts. If mediation fails, the supreme court will hear the case in October.
Most striking about both the Texas and Kansas cases are the broadly encompassing constituencies the plaintiffs represent. If students in two-thirds of the school districts in Texas and 40 percent of the students in Kansas are being deprived of an adequate education, then a political incentive would exist to save them from educational immiseration and protect school spending, even under adverse economic conditions. The histories of the Texas and Kansas supreme courts make us doubt they will resist the treacly rhetoric of the trial courts and return these questions to the legislatures and governors, where they belong. We expect rather that the cases will continue to shuffle abroad in state courts, like the ghoul in a late-night horror show that, in a different context, Justice Scalia said refused to die, even after being repeatedly killed and buried.
Joshua Dunn is associate professor of political science at the University of Colorado–Colorado Springs. Martha Derthick is professor emerita of government at the University of Virginia.
					Last updated June 12, 2013
					License this Content
			Joshua DunnAuthor BioMartha DerthickAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            What We’re Watching: How to Solve the Teacher-Pension Problem
            June 4, 2013
            Next Article
            What We’re Watching: NCLB Sanctions and Student Achievement
            June 17, 2013
We Recommend You Read
		Paycheck Protection
					Court upholds Michigan law forbidding public schools from collecting union dues through payroll deductions
		by Joshua Dunn
		Ballots Not Barristers
					Arizona case shows limits of litigation
		by Joshua Dunn
		Narrow Opening for School Choice
					But Blaine Amendments stand, for now
		by Joshua Dunn
                                    Joshua Dunn	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
