Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home
Monthly Teacher Resources
Teacher Resources
Computers
Countries and Continents
Holidays
English Language Arts 
Math
Monthly Teacher Resource Guide
Science
Social Studies
Crafts
Sites For Teachers
Teacher Glossary
Teacher Jokes
Teacher Dictionary
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
Monthly Teacher Resource Guides
Teachers absolutely love this section of our site. We look at every month 
by highlighting holidays, events in history, and daily helpers for your 
classroom. Did we mention that we have tons of lessons and printables for 
all the holidays?
Be sure to check our gold (50,000+ 
K-12 high quality printables) and platinum (Instantly 
create puzzles and printables) membership. Our gold program is one of 
the largest single teacher resources ever assembled.
January Teacher Resource 
Guide - The coldest month of the year in the northern hemisphere, 
is a time when many people usually stay indoors as much as they can and 
try to stay warm.
February Teacher 
Resource Guide - February, the shortest month of the year at 28 
days, is also the only month whose length sometimes changes from one year 
to the next.
March Teacher Resource 
Guide - March is the month when the first whiffs of Spring start 
to be in the air in the northern hemisphere, a time of fresh breezes, opening 
buds, the last snow thawing, and the first migrating birds coming back from 
the south in many areas of the world.
April Teacher Resource 
Guide - Famed for its showers, which are said in the common English 
proverb to "bring May flowers," April is one of the warm, pleasant 
months of Spring in the northern hemisphere - a time when blossoms are opening, 
birds are singing, the grass is turning green, and the winter's snow already 
seems like a distant memory.
May Teacher Resource 
Guide - May is a late Spring month in the northern hemisphere when 
the fields are aglow with flowers, the skies are blue, and the temperatures 
are warm without summer heat - a month that has inspired poets and has been 
enjoyed by nearly everyone throughout history.
June Teacher Resource 
Guide - June is a warm, lush month in the northern hemisphere, a 
time when crops and gardens are growing, trees are in their full summer 
foliage, and there is still enough rain so that the grass has not yet been 
"summer-killed" by the heat of late July and August.
July Teacher Resource 
Guide - Symbolized by a smoldering red ruby as its birthstone, July 
is the peak of summer in the northern hemisphere - the time of the highest 
average temperatures, when the sun glares from the sky with white heat, 
people flock to beaches and go on vacation, and mighty thunderstorms sweep 
across the landscape like black-hulled ships rowed by oars of lightning. 
August Teacher Resource 
Guide - August north of the equator has the reputation of being 
one of the year's hottest months - if not the hottest.
September Teacher 
Resource Guide - The ninth month of the modern calendar - still 
called the 'seventh month' as a holdover from the days when the Roman year 
started in March - September is the end of summer and the start of autumn 
in most of the northern half of the globe (while Spring is just starting 
in Australia and South America).
October Teacher Resource 
Guide - Garlanded in spectacular red and yellow leaves, noted for 
its mild days and crisp, frosty nights, October is the month of Halloween, 
jack-o'-lanterns, and migrating birds heading southward for warmer climates. 
November Teacher 
Resource Guide - Along with March, November is one of the two windiest 
months in the northern hemisphere.
December Teacher 
Resource Guide - December, the last month of the year, is also the 
month with the shortest days in the northern hemisphere - and the longest 
ones south of the equator.
Monthly Printable 
Calendars - Helpful calendars that you can print out and write on.
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
