            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Blog
                            States Can Foster Economic Opportunity by Promoting High-Value Credentials
                                By Kathleen Mathers                                                                                                                            
		Kathleen MathersQuentin Suffren
			A worker with a certification in food services typically earns a median wage of only $20,180.
A computer support specialist with a Cisco Certified Network Associate credential enjoys a median salary of $56,275, while a worker with a certification in food services typically earns a median wage of only $20,180. This is critical information students and families need to make informed choices about their education and career paths.
Unfortunately, such information can be hard to come by. States can collect these data, but many of them do not. At ExcelinEd, we discovered that only 28 states currently tally which industry-recognized credentials students are earning at the K-12 level. And nearly half of the 50 states lack the ability to understand which students are earning credentials and whether those credentials are aligned with high-value job opportunities. That leaves millions of families in the dark about credentials that can open doors to economic opportunity.
Even in states that do collect data on credential attainment, the picture is also bleak: Just 19 percent of credentials earned across all states are in-demand by employers. And many of the most commonly earned credentials are low-level general career-readiness certificates that hold little to no value in the labor market.
To put that in perspective: four out of every five credentials earned by students are NOT prioritized or sought by employers in hiring. It’s a mistake to encourage students—especially those for whom a credential may be their ticket to the middle class—to earn credentials that do not lead to a good job.
These credential can play an important role. The roads to economic security and self-sufficiency look far different today than they once did. Significant economic shifts—spurred both by technological advances and the lingering impacts of the Great Recession—have fundamentally altered education and work. Postsecondary degrees are often a gateway for students to access good jobs, but there are other pathways learners can take to get there, including non-degree opportunities like industry-recognized credentials.
States and communities across the country have begun to recognize the significance of industry-recognized credentials in the new economy. Twenty-six states include them in their high school accountability systems, and others are considering counting such credentials toward their postsecondary attainment goals. There are thousands of these credentials available, however, and identifying which lead to occupations that can sustain a family, grow a business, and fuel an economy is complex.
The choices states make about which industry-recognized credentials “count” will either encourage learners down a meaningful career path or unwittingly steer them toward low-wage, low-skill jobs. Just as technology has shifted the economy, we must upgrade from providing learners with a folded map that overwhelms them with options to GPS guidance that pinpoints the most productive routes to prosperity.
At Education Strategy Group, we are helping states and communities set a high bar for determining the value of a credential: connecting learners to jobs that are not only plentiful but also pay a family-sustaining wage. This demands that K-12, postsecondary, workforce development, and industry leaders collaborate to identify and validate the credentials that lead to such opportunities.
Based on our research and engagement with a group of state and national experts, we recommend all states take specific steps to help more students earn credentials with labor market value: That includes:
Identifying in-demand, high-skill, high-wage occupations and associated credentials;
Validating those findings with employers and finalizing a statewide list of priority credentials;
Incentivizing priority credential attainment through funding strategies for schools and colleges, articulated postsecondary credit for high school earners, and rigorous accountability systems;
Reporting and monitoring priority credential attainment with reliable, verified data
As organizations, Education Strategy Group and ExcelinEd are committed to helping states and communities get this right. There is an economic and social imperative to do so. At Education Strategy Group, we recently released a series of tools and resources to catalyze work across the country and we are engaging directly with six states to strengthen their identification and validation processes. At ExcelinEd, we work with states to bring their data on credentials to the forefront of public reporting and accountability systems, develop policies that promote attainment of high-value credentials, and help families make more informed choices.
Everybody wins when students have multiple pathways that position them for success in college and career. But we know that simply increasing the number of students who earn any credential is at best short-sighted. The end goal of our education and training systems must provide a high likelihood of long-term success.
Let’s ensure credential attainment policies clearly signal the high-value credentialing pathways, so we can provide students with clear direction toward economic opportunity. Doing so will pay dividends for states, communities, and learners.
Kathleen Mathers is a principal at Education Strategy Group. Quentin Suffren is National Director of Policy for ExcelinEd.
					Last updated September 20, 2019
					License this Content
			Kathleen MathersAuthor BioQuentin SuffrenAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            ‘Adjunct Underclass’ Author Responds To Review
            September 19, 2019
            Next Article
            Straight Up Conversation: Microsoft Chief Talks Augmented Reality in Schools
            September 23, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Balancing College and Career Readiness
		by Andy Smarick
		A New High School Movement Rises
		by Bruno V. Manno
		The Metric That Matters Most: Ask Kids, “Are You In?”
					The first and most important relationship most children have with a civic institution is with a school.
		by Robert Pondiscio
                                    Kathleen Mathers	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
