            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogGovernance and LeadershipOpinionUnions
                            Please, Let Research Inform the Union Debate
                                By Katharine Strunk                                                                                                                            
		Katharine StrunkJosh CowenDan Goldhaber
Collective bargaining and teachers’ unions are making headlines. The U.S. Supreme Court just heard oral arguments in the case of Janus v. AFSCME, which could substantially limit public-sector union membership and financial support. At the same time, teachers in West Virginia made national headlines by organizing a statewide strike over persistently low pay.
Janus and West Virginia touch on issues within a long-standing debate: the role of organized labor, specifically teachers’ unions, in public education. As social scientists who study unions and their collective bargaining agreements (CBAs)—contracts that determine much of district policy like compensation, staffing, and disciplinary issues—we believe research can and must help inform this debate.
Until a decade or two ago, we might have attributed the absence of research within the teachers’ unions/CBA debate to a dearth of rigorous evidence about their workings and influence on school operations and outcomes. But this is no longer an excuse—research is being contributed not only by us but by experts across the country. So, this week we have brought together some of our colleagues to help us take a deep dive into what research on CBAs and unions has found, ranging from union impacts on student outcomes, to unions’ political activity, to the benefits and drawbacks of reforms intended in part to weaken unions and their long-fought priorities.
But first, we are kicking off this week by sharing a little bit of what we’ve learned over the past decade-plus of studying teachers’ unions and CBAs. For all the rhetoric we hear every time teachers strike or CBA issues are raised, what CBAs actually are and how they influence operations and outcomes remains pretty poorly understood. Most recently, we have embarked upon a study of how CBAs change over time in three separate states. Our research team has collected at least two contracts from nearly all districts in California, Michigan, and Washington over the past ten years. This work has taught us a lot about what CBAs are and how they matter to public education.
The first lesson learned is that almost all CBAs do at least a few things: Almost all protect teacher seniority in determining who can transfer or fill a vacancy during layoffs; most pay teachers according to salary schedules that reward experience and education level; more flexible pay related to teacher performance and/or to recruit teachers to hard-to-staff subjects is prohibited in the vast majority of teacher contracts; and most CBAs protect paid preparation time, document grievance and disciplinary procedures, and provide mandatory minimum class sizes. You can read a whole lot more about what’s in CBAs in two new papers we’ve published in the journal Educational Policy, here and here.
The second thing we know is that, to some extent, the perception that CBAs don’t change much over time is well-founded. Katharine and Brad Marianno show that even during the Great Recession, which had profound effects on the public sector, teacher contracts didn’t change much overall. Where they did, especially in financially strained districts, it appears that unions negotiated new protections in places like the school schedule, grievance procedures, and non-teaching duties when their teachers had to take a cut in pay. We also know from ongoing work, to be presented this week at the Association for Education Finance and Policy (AEFP), that even after recent changes to what CBAs could and could not contain, contracts in Michigan and Washington remained relatively stable over time.
Third, while the specifics in CBAs in particular districts tend to persist over time, there are differences across districts in what shows up in them. Our papers in Educational Policy show that CBAs in larger districts tend to regulate far more elements of district decision-making, and CBAs in urban areas are more restrictive with respect to what administrators can and cannot do than in smaller or non-urban areas.
Learning more is important due to emerging evidence that what’s in CBAs can influence important outcomes. Dan and his co-authors find that CBA seniority transfer provisions are associated with how long different types of teachers stay in more disadvantaged schools: Contracts that prioritize seniority in involuntary transfers are more likely to see veteran teachers leave disadvantaged schools. Whether these patterns or other CBA impacts on district policy are a good or a bad thing depends on one’s perspective, but these findings also suggest that there may be more direct effects on student achievement or the cost-effectiveness of schooling. It is difficult to nail down these type of relationships because, like CBAs, many things differ from one district to the next, but new evidence by Katharine and colleagues shows that districts with more restrictive CBAs are less efficient (as defined by returns to student achievement per dollar spent).
These are just the latest pieces of evidence, and only those studies to which one or more of us has contributed since we last wrote about this in RHSU two years ago. Our colleagues that are guest-blogging later this week will share more of the recent research. But, collectively, this work matters because debates like those in West Virginia, at the Supreme Court, or in other states and districts across the country—debates about teacher rights and responsibilities—have been happening for years and are no closer to resolution. Research, especially now that we have so much more of it than we’ve had in the past, must inform these debates.
— Katharine Strunk, Josh Cowen, and Dan Goldhaber
Katharine O. Strunk is a professor of education policy and the Clifford E. Erickson Distinguished Chair in Education at Michigan State University, and co-director of the Michigan State University Education Policy Innovation Collaborative (EPIC). Joshua Cowen is an associate professor of education policy and the founder and co-director of EPIC. Dan Goldhaber is director of the Center for Education Data and Research at the University of Washington.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated March 13, 2018
					License this Content
			Katharine StrunkAuthor BioJosh CowenAuthor BioDan GoldhaberAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Simplifying Grants for College Students: Who Wins and Who Loses?
            March 12, 2018
            Next Article
            Teacher Collective Bargaining and Student Learning
            March 14, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Both Teachers and the Public Back Janus Decision by Supreme Court
		by Paul E. Peterson
		What Lies Ahead for Teachers’ Unions After Janus?
		by Bradley D. Marianno
		Do Strikes Signal Union Strength?
		by Leslie Finger
                                    Katharine Strunk	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
