https://www.who.int/health-topics/coronavirus
Coronavirus
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus.
Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.  Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness.
The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is to be well informed about the COVID-19 virus, the disease it causes and how it spreads. Protect yourself and others from infection by washing your hands or using an alcohol based rub frequently and not touching your face.
The COVID-19 virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, so it’s important that you also practice respiratory etiquette (for example, by coughing into a flexed elbow).

Stay informed:

To prevent infection and to slow transmission of COVID-19, do the following:
COVID-19 affects different people in different ways. Most infected people will develop mild to moderate illness and recover without hospitalization.
Most common symptoms:
Less common symptoms:
Serious symptoms:
Seek immediate medical attention if you have serious symptoms.  Always call before visiting your doctor or health facility.
People with mild symptoms who are otherwise healthy should manage their symptoms at home.
On average it takes 5–6 days from when someone is infected with the virus for symptoms to show, however it can take up to 14 days.

Publications
Considerations for implementing and adjusting public health and social measures in the context of COVID-19
This document is an update to the interim guidance published
on 16 April 2020 entitled “Considerations in adjusting public
health and social measures...
Considerations for school-related public health measures in the context of COVID-19

Operational considerations for COVID-19 management in the accommodation sector: interim guidance
UN COVID-19 Response: Launch of policy brief on covid-19 and transforming tourismQuestions and Answers:Q&A: Staying at hotels and accommodation establishments...
Considerations for public health and social measures in the workplace in the context of COVID-19

News
Joint Statement on Data Protection and Privacy in the COVID-19 Response
Over US$ 2 billion raised to support equitable access to COVID vaccines with additional US$ 5 billion needed in 2021
Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator commitments reach US$ 5.1billion following new contributions, including at Paris Peace Forum
Ending the neglect: inaugural webinar on the new road map, COVID-19 and the road to recovery
