            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogState PolicyTechnology
                            In the News: Inside the $28,000-a-year private school where children of tech workers learn to become the next Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
BASIS runs 25 charter schools, and there are always a few BASIS charter schools listed among the top public schools in the U.S. These are free public schools with no admissions requirements. They admit students by lottery. But in addition to the public charter schools there are a small handful of private BASIS schools that charge $25,000 or more in tuition.
For Business Insider, Melia Robinson spent a day at the private school BASIS runs in Silicon Valley, taking photos and talking with students and teachers. Most of the students Robinson talks with are children of immigrants who work in tech and who want their children to get good jobs in tech.
For more on BASIS charter schools, read June Kronholz’s feature story, “High Scores at BASIS Charter Schools” in the Winter 2014 issue of EdNext. She wrote
BASIS schools are open admission. They operate on a shoestring budget: the Arizona schools operate on about two-thirds of the average funding for a child in a traditional public school. Classes are large: up to 30 students in middle school. Technology is “akin to cuneiform tablets,” Scottsdale’s head of school, Hadley Ruggles, told me.
The BASIS curriculum and its hard-charging teachers go a long way toward explaining the schools’ success. Fifth graders take Latin and can expect 90 minutes a day of homework. Middle schoolers have nine hours a week of biology, chemistry, and physics. Algebra starts in 6th grade; AP calculus is a graduation requirement. The English curriculum separates literature and language, or critical thought; high schoolers take both. There are year-end comprehensives; fail even one and it means repeating the grade.
Richard Whitmire wrote about the role BASIS schools were playing in attracting suburban families to charter schools in “More Middle-Class Families Choose Charters” in the Summer 2015 issue of EdNext
— Education Next
					Last updated February 6, 2018
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Building Knowledge to Improve Degree Completion in Community Colleges
            February 5, 2018
            Next Article
            Straight Up Conversation: Build UP Founder Mark Martin
            February 7, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Narrow STEM Focus In Schools May Hurt Long-Term
		by Jay P. Greene
		In the News: Arizona Charters Lead 2017 Best High Schools Rankings
		by Education Next
		Time to Help Teachers Generate and Use Their Own Evidence on Digital Tools
		by Betheny Gross
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
