Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home &gt;
Teacher Resources 
&gt;
Social Studies 
&gt;
Native Americans
Teacher Resources
Computers
Countries and Continents
Holidays
English Language Arts 
Math
Monthly Teacher Resource Guide
Science
Social Studies
Crafts
Sites For Teachers
Teacher Glossary
Teacher Jokes
Web Quests
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
Teacher Guide to Native Americans
The history of Native Americans is as old as the continent of North 
America. The only real indigenous peoples of North America are 
the Native Indians. This review will not touch upon a very sensitive 
subject concerning the treatment of the Native Americans by the groups 
of white men but it is important to realize what happened to the Native 
American people.
European Settlers
It is hard to accurately document the total number of tribes that 
were present in North America when the first European settlers made 
the trip across the Atlantic Ocean. The record-keeping software was, 
nonexistent! A good estimate would be well over 300 unique and individual 
tribal groups. In the year 2008 there are more than 4 million Native 
American individuals both in the Continental 
United States and Canada. 
All of these Native Americans can trace their history back to their 
respective Indian tribes from both of these countries. Some of the 
more popular tribes and some that you may have even heard of include 
the Arapahoe, Navajo, Cherokee, Sioux and Seminole.
Complete 
Thanksgiving Workbook
Background 
Sites
Bulletin 
Board Pictures
Native 
American Lesson Plans
Native 
American Theme, Vol. 1 Workbook
Native 
American Theme, Vol. 2 Workbook
Native 
American Worksheets
November 
Monthly Helpers
Thanksgiving 
Fun Workbook
Ultimate 
Thanksgiving Set
Native 
American Theme Worksheet Series
These 30 worksheets focus on themes related to Native Americans. 
Each one has a short reading passage and then 8 questions about the 
passage.
See 
All The Printables
Great Plains Buffalo - The Native Americans of North America utilized their 
natural resources in a manner that has never been duplicated on the North 
American continent. For example, the Great Plains Buffalo that once numbered 
over 10 million was so beloved and every single part of that animal was 
used in one way or another. To say that nothing went to waste would be a 
vast understatement. The Native American Indians deeply respected this animal 
for not only it's meat but also as a spiritual being that was revered by 
all the tribes that came in contact with this wonderful animal. It was the 
white man's greed for the furs or pelts that almost made Great Plains Buffaloes 
an extinct species. What the Native Americans had created with their 100% 
utilization of the buffalo from snout to tail was almost completely destroyed 
by the arrival of rifle sharpshooting hunters.
Expansion - The history of Native Americans can be looked at as an experiment 
in both expansion and lack of understanding from the European settlers. 
It is hard to understand what was going on in the minds of the American 
settlers especially the ones migrating from the original 13 Eastern Colonies 
westward all the way to California. The truth is that no one who is alive 
today was alive during the battle with the Indians and the resulting forced 
reservation living accommodations for these original indigenous Native Americans. 
What we do know is that the entire continent that Americans call home was 
once all Native American Indians.
Native 
American Lesson Series
These 30 worksheets focus on themes related to Native Americans; 
each worksheet is different from the other volume. Each one has a 
short reading passage and then 8 questions about the passage.
See 
Entire Series
Respectful People - To say that the Native American Indians were mistreated 
is a fair statement and one that can be expanded upon with open discussion 
and relevant factual information. The Native American Indians acted as any 
other population of people would have done when their beloved land and food 
sources as well as natural resources were being taken from them. They fought 
and fought well. The pride of the Native American Indian for family, tribe 
and earth is spectacular and inspiring. Many lives on both sides were lost 
during the expansion tactics of the United States original settlers until 
peace eventually came through Geronimo's ultimate surrender.
Divide and Conquer - The history of Native Americans can be summed up in 
three simple words, divide and conquer. If every single Native American 
warrior from every North American tribe would have joined forces during 
the first conflict with the European settlers, quite possibly America and 
Canada would be quite different locations. As it stands the Native Americans 
now have very important rights that are only superseded by certain United 
States and Canadian Federal laws. If given the choice between being free 
or living on reservations the Native American Indians would have certainly 
selected choice number one.
The 
Ultimate Thanksgiving Worksheet Set
This wonderful series of lessons and reading comprehension worksheets 
helps students understanding the ins and outs of Thanksgiving.
See 
Printable Series
Wado - One thing each and every American and Canadian can say to the surviving 
Indian tribal populations is wado which means thank you in the Cherokee 
native tongue. Please see below only a handful of the Native American Indian 
tribal names so that you may become familiar with some of the people's that 
once roamed free in this great land that is now the United States of America 
and Canada.
Thanksgiving 
Fun Workbook
There are 25 worksheets in a variety of formats including mazes, 
word problems, myths/facts, word search, poems, haiku, border paper, 
spelling, writing prompts, and handwriting.
Print 
Now
Abenakis - Native New Englanders
Alabamas - Alabama
Algonquins - Ontario/Quebec area of Canada.
Apaches Relatives of the Navajos, the Apache Indians are best-known for 
their fierce military resistance against the Mexicans and Americans, under 
the leadership of warriors like Geronimo and Cochise.
Apalachees Original people of northern Florida, the Apalachee Indians were 
driven west and their descendants live in Louisiana today.
Arapahos the Arapaho Indians were originally farming people, but once horses 
were introduced to the Americas, they began to follow the buffalo herds 
like the Cheyenne and Sioux.
Related Teacher Resources That Are Worth A Look:
Comparing 
Tribes VENN Diagram
Create 
Your Own Native American Board Game
Kindergarten Theme: 
Native American Indians
Native American Conquest
Native 
Americans Today
Native American WebQuest
Native 
  Americans, Pilgrims, and Me
Native Americans 
Facts for Kids
The Wampum Chronicles
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
