            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            Plain Talk and School Reform
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
Yesterday, the American Educator published a new essay where I look back over some of what I’ve learned in the course of three decades in and around school reform. In the piece, I touch upon some of the takeaways from my recent book, Letters to a Young Education Reformer, and what they mean for teachers. I’m often struck, after all, by just how massive the divide between educators and education reformers has become. I think both sides bear some of the blame for this, and that both can do much more to bridge it.
But doing so recognizes that we’ve created a world where it’s hard to have the discussions that can help bridge that divide. Accomplished educators tell me they’re frequently afraid to utter simple truths: that dramatic increases in test scores or graduation rates can indicate fraud as well as excellence. That efforts to “reform” school discipline by reducing punishment can make schools less safe. That too many parents aren’t doing their part to ensure that their children succeed in school. That evaluation and training can amount to little more than a mindless distraction. And that many policies governing accountability, school improvement, and teacher evaluation are often goofily designed and ultimately destructive.
They say they’re hesitant to say these things because, when they do, they’re lambasted as apologists, excuse-makers, or part of the problem. And for the life of me, I can’t understand why.
After all, these are statements that contain much truth. And I’d like to think we’d encourage educators and parents to speak up, because it’s only by hashing this out that we can distill the wheat from the whining.
As I put it in the American Educator piece:
Reformers and practitioners will inevitably see things differently. But what frustrated teachers can miss is that this is OK, even healthy. Educators are looking from the inside out, and reformers from the outside in. In all walks of life, there are doers and there are talkers. Doers are the people who teach students, attend to patients, and fix plumbing. Talkers are free to survey the sweep of what’s being done and explore ways to do it better.
Ultimately, serious and sustainable school reform needs to be profoundly pro-doer. When talkers wax eloquent about students trapped in dysfunctional systems, they often forget that many teachers feel equally stymied. The bureaucracy that reformers decry can also infuriate and demoralize the teachers who live with it every day. Educators see when policies misfire and where existing practices come up short. Talkers have the time to examine the big picture, learn from lots of locales, and forge relationships with policymakers. Talkers have the distance to raise hard truths that can be tough for educators to address simply because they strike so close to home. But it’s ultimately the doers—the educators—who have to do the work, which means talkers need to pay close attention to what educators have to say. There’s a crucial symbiosis here: teachers and talkers need each other.
Look, I’ll offer a confession: I’m not an especially nice guy. When I suggest that talkers and doers need to listen to those who see things differently, that policymakers are well-served by humility, or that reform needs to work for teachers as well as students, it’s not because I want everyone to get along. It’s because education improvement is hard work. Doing it well is at least as much about discipline and precision as it is about passion. What I’m counseling is not niceness but professionalism. This means listening more deliberately and speaking more selectively. It’s tough to listen, though, when we’re constantly shouting at one another.
It may not fit the tenor of the times. But I’ve learned, if we’re to do better going forward, that we all need to respect the limits of policy, ask more of parents, and appreciate the symbiosis of talkers and doers—while also always remembering that in schooling, it’s the doing that counts.
The problem is that we have a world of education reform so fueled by passion—and a vision of how things should be—that there can be little patience for frustrating questions and inconvenient concerns. I think, for instance, of the former Bush administration official who used to answer critiques of No Child Left Behind’s famous 100% proficiency decree by asking, “So, whose child are you ready to leave behind?”
One of the big lessons I’ve learned over the years is that schooling is always more complicated and contextual than we might like it to be. Test scores matter, but not nearly as much as we’ve tended to suggest. Educators can and should do better, but they can only do so much. Policy matters, but good execution matters much more.
All of this can too easily get lost in our heated policy debates—especially when all parties need to issue a steady stream of policy proposals, declarations, and definitive studies in order to generate media attention and justify foundation support. When I think back over my years in education reform, one constant is frustration that so many lofty, well-meaning proposals have disappointed in practice. It may not be a sexy insight, but I’ve increasingly come to think that this is because we’ve discouraged practitioners from talking plainly about practical challenges—and made it hard for them to be heard when they do.
— Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated December 15, 2017
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Some Advice for Champions of Social and Emotional Learning
            December 13, 2017
            Next Article
            New Evidence on School Choice and Racially Segregated Schools
            December 18, 2017
We Recommend You Read
		Straight Up Conversation: The Grade’s Alexander Russo on Media Coverage of Education
		by Frederick Hess
		Why Education Policy’s Big Listening Moment Doesn’t Involve Much Listening
		by Frederick Hess
		Of School Reform, Pyrrhic Victories, and Warning Signs
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
