  Member-supported news for Southern California
          Close
      Member-supported news for Southern California
      Listen Live
        News
        Programs
          Featured Programs
                AirTalk
                FilmWeek
                Take Two
                The Frame
          All Programs
              Programs A-Z
              Program Schedule
              Podcasts
              Archive
        Events
          KPCC In Person
              KPCC In Person
              Upcoming Events
              Past Events
          Get connected
              KPCC Events Newsletter
        Support Us
          Membership
                Become a Sustainer
                Become a Member
              About sustaining membership
              Update your credit card
              Member benefits
          Ways to Support
                Annual Gala
        About Us
          Connect with KPCC
              Contact us
              Become a source
              Share a news tip
          Learn more about us
              About KPCC
          People
              Staff Directory
              Executive leadership
              Board of Trustees
              Regional Advisory Council
              Careers
          @KPCC
          KPCC
        Donate Now
      Donate
      Menu
      Close
    Back
              Listen LiveNo matter where you are or what device you use to listen to KPCC, we've got you covered.
              Sign up for alerts
    00:50
      Become a KPCC Sponsor
    MORE FROM THIS CATEGORY
  Education
          Enrollment Is Dropping In Public Schools Around the Country
        October 9, 2020
          Kids In New York City Go Back To School For In-Person Classes
        October 1, 2020
          Many Arkansas Teachers Refuse In-Person Classes Amid COVID-19 Concerns
        September 28, 2020
    POPULAR NOW ON KPCC
          Call For Administration's COVID-19 Vaccine Contracts To Be Disclosed 
        October 10, 2020
          A Coronavirus Vaccine Could Kill Half A Million Sharks, Conservationists Warn
        October 10, 2020
          Despite Surge In Volunteers, Some Swing States Still Need Poll Workers
        October 10, 2020
      Become a KPCC Sponsor
    Education
Mixed feelings as Inglewood schools leader leaves for San Francisco
        State Assemblyman Mike Gipson, left, and State Senator Isadore Hall, center, talk to Inglewood Unified state administrator Vince Matthews. Matthews is leaving the district to become superintendent in San Francisco. 
        Adolfo Guzman-Lopez/KPCC
  Adolfo Guzman-Lopez
  |
  March 30, 2017
    Listen to story
      00:50
Download this story 0MB
  Vince Matthews, the trustee appointed in 2015 to run the Inglewood Unified School District, told staff on Wednesday that he’s stepping down to become superintendent of San Francisco's public schools.
Matthews was the fourth state appointed trustee since 2012 when the school board and superintendent lost decision-making authority after requesting a state bailout loan to avoid bankruptcy.
“This was an extremely difficult decision, but I needed to take this opportunity to be closer to my family while returning to the district where I began both my student and teaching career,” Matthews said in a written statement released by the California Department of Education.
Matthews, who’s African American, appeared to have the support of many black elected and civic leaders in Inglewood.
“He’s strengthened our financial systems, he’s strengthened our academic programs,” said Inglewood Unified School Board member D’Artagnan Scorza.
Scorza said Matthews took into account the elected school board’s proposals.
“We now have a trauma initiative that’s addressing adverse childhood experiences throughout the district," Scorza said. "We’ve launched My Brother’s Keeper throughout the district; we’ve launched a new school and district newsletter." 
Matthews’ departure comes as Inglewood Unified faces several fiscal challenges on its way by back to repaying the state’s loan, securing its finances and learning. State officials will consider returning local control to a school board once some or all of those have been met.
“Two years was not enough,” said Miriam Morris, whose first grade son attends an Inglewood elementary school.
“I feel like we’ve made some really great strides, but there’s still a ton of work left to do and some big decisions that’ll need to be made in the next couple of years and I just want to know that we’re going to have a leader who’s going to take us there.”
She and others said one of those big decisions is how to spend construction bond funds to renovate dilapidated schools.
The other big decision involves how to stop students and their families from leaving the school district. The school district has lost 13 percent of its student enrollment in the last five years, a figure three times as high as that for L.A. County.
Morris helped start a Spanish language dual immersion program that she and Matthews said attracted some families who would have opted for charter schools or schools outside Inglewood.
“If you have a good product, people will come to it,” said Chris Graeber, a field representative for California Professional Employees, the union that represents Inglewood Unified’s non-teaching staff.
“The public now has the power to shop [for schools]. We have members who get their hair done and there are people passing out flyers for charter schools. Inglewood is doing none of that.”
A charter high school is set to open in the fall, which at full capacity will enroll 650 students. Matthews had said the school district stands to lose $6.5 million in student funding if all those students come from existing Inglewood schools’ enrollment.
California’s State Superintendent of Schools Tom Torlakson said he’d appoint an interim trustee during the selection process to pick Matthews’ replacement.
  Related links
        Vince Matthews picked to lead Inglewood schools 
        Don Brann apologizes for remarks
        State trustee out
        Loss of local control
    Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
    blog comments powered by Disqus
    KPCC's Education coverage is a Southern California resource provided by member-supported public radio. We can't do it without you.
    Your contributions power KPCC.  Give today.
      The Voice of Southern California
        Support the voices you trust. Donate now.
        Local
        US &amp; World
        Arts &amp; Entertainment
        Crime &amp; Justice
        Take Two
        AirTalk
        Off-Ramp
        The Frame
        Program Schedule
        Programs A-Z
        KPCC In Person
        About KPCC
        Contact Us
        Staff Directory
        Careers
        Donate Your Vehicle
        News
        Programs
        Events
        Support
        About
        Our Partners
        Terms &amp; Conditions
        Privacy
        Feedback
        © 2020 Southern California Public Radio
          Play
          Pause
          /
              Download
            Mute
            Unmute
            X
