				Us Weekly Magazine
				News
Stylish
Entertainment
Royals
Moms
Pets
Food
Podcasts
VideoMoreNews
Stylish
Entertainment
Royals
Moms
Pets
Food
Podcasts
Video
Celebrity Directory
Photos
Wellness
Woman Crush
Love Lives
Buzzzz-o-Meter
Newsletter Signup
Subscribe
Hot Pics
Give a Gift
Subscriber Service
Shop With Us
Shop Special Issues
Download current issue for just $5.99
Accessibility Statement
					Download Current Issue 
											Subscribe to the magazine
					Stylish				
		Bette Midler’s Hulaween Party to Celebrate 20th Anniversary: See Her Best Costumes!
				By Rachel McRady			
									October 20, 2015
			Bette Midler is preparing to celebrate her 20th annual Hulaween party. Jim Spellman/WireImage; Robin Platzer/FilmMagic; Jamie McCarthy/WireImage
						Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
		More News
							This Fierce Leopard Cardigan Will Show You What Fall Fun Is All About						
							Nail the Oversized Trend With This Affordable Flowy Blouse						
							We Found a Cardigan Just Like J. Lo’s $995 Coach One for Under $30 Using StyleSnap						
				More News			
						It’s that time of year again! Chances are you’ve already had at least one mandatory viewing of Hocus Pocus and are prepping your most creative ensemble for maximum revelry come all Hallows’ Eve. That also means that Bette Midler’s annual Hulaween costume party is right around the corner. 
			PHOTOS: Celebs in matching Halloween costumes
		Read article
This year, the two-time Oscar nominee, 69, will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of her festive Halloween party. Every year the event benefits the New York Restoration Project, and has raised millions of dollars in the past two decades. 
			PHOTOS: 2014 celebrity Halloween costumes
		Read article
At this year’s event, which takes place on Friday, Oct. 30, Midler will receive the Green Goddess Award, and the theme will be “Hell Night on Hulaween Island.” The costume contest will be judged by famed designer Michael Kors. 
The long-standing tradition all goes to support Midler’s “vision for a cleaner, greener NYC.” 
			PHOTOS: Controversial celeb Halloween costumes
		Read article
Naturally, the host and Hocus Pocus star has a history of having the best costumes. In honor of the party’s 20th anniversary, take a look back at her best outfits:
Ron Galella, Ltd./WireImage
1998
Paging Nurse Midler! The Beaches star looked like a chic Red Cross volunteer in her cute candy striper outfit in 1998. 
KMazur/WireImage
1999
Giving Ariel a run for her money! Midler dressed like a fabulous blue and blush-colored mermaid in 1999. 
			PHOTOS: Best Today show Halloween costumes
		Read article
2005
Flower power! To show the NYRP some extra love, Midler dressed like a giant pink flower in 2005. 
2006
And what does a flower need? Some H2O! Following up her flower costume, Midler wore a giant watering hose headdress in 2006. 
Michael Loccisano/FilmMagic
2008
What’s cookin’ good lookin’? Wearing a blood-splattered chef’s coat and hat, Midler went as a murderous cook in 2008.
Will Ragozzino/Getty Images
2009
It’s not exactly clear what Midler’s inspiration was for her 2009 costume, but a pink corset, sequin and feather-covered robe, and plume headdress can only equal fab! 
2010
Midler looked like a woodland fairy/peacock in 2010, when she wore a large feathered headdress with a brown dress, printed to look like a tree trunk. Saving the planet and looking glam at the same time!
Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images
2011
Dia de los Midler! Giving Halloween a little Dia de los Muertas twist, Midler dressed like a gothic bride, posing with a glittery skeleton, of course. 
Ben Gabbe/Getty Images
2013
Meet you in the French Quarter! Midler looked like the Grand Marshall of a New Orleans parade in 2013, with her black and red-fringed umbrella and black, lace-covered gown. 
Walter McBride/WireImage
2014
Sexy Winifred Sanderson! School was in session last year when Midler wore a skintight black sequin gown with a witch’s hat and a cute red lip. Boooooook!
Tell Us: Which of Bette Midler’s looks is your favorite?
			For access to all our exclusive celebrity videos and interviews – Subscribe on YouTube!
		More News
							This Fierce Leopard Cardigan Will Show You What Fall Fun Is All About						
							Nail the Oversized Trend With This Affordable Flowy Blouse						
							We Found a Cardigan Just Like J. Lo’s $995 Coach One for Under $30 Using StyleSnap						
				More News			
            Close widget
            Moms Like Us!        
            Collapse widget
		Us Weekly has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services.
			Part of the American Media Entertainment Group.© American Media, Inc. 2020Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Ad Choices
Data Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Media Kits
FAQ
Subscribe
Sitemap
Digital Access
Give a Gift
			Manage Cookies
			Part of the American Media Entertainment Group.Powered by WordPress.com VIP
