          Feedback
        How to use Google Feedback
              Activate Google
              Feedback
              Describe the
              issue
              Highlight
              Black out
              Preview
              Submit
              View your
              feedback
              Step 1: Activate Google Feedback
                You can activate Google Feedback by clicking the Send feedback or Report
                a bug options on Google products.
                Next step: Describe
              Step 2: Describe the issue
                Once Google Feedback is activated, you will see a grayed-out image of the
                page you are on with a Google Feedback dialog box. This allows you to fill
                in a description of your feedback. If you’re reporting a problem, a good
                description would include the following pieces of information:
                what you were doing when the problem occurred
                what you expected to happen
                what actually happened
                Next step: Highlight
              Step 3: Highlight
                Click Highlight to begin highlighting the parts of the page corresponding to
                your feedback.
                Either move your mouse pointer over the page and click the automatic highlights
                that appear, or click anywhere on the page and drag the mouse pointer over the
                sections you want to highlight.
                If you highlight something by accident, click the remove icon () in the top right corner
                of the highlighted area to remove the highlight.
                If the Google Feedback dialog is covering something you want to highlight,
                click and drag on the border of the dialog to move it out of the way.
                Next step: Blackout
              Step 4: Black out
                If the page contains your name, address, or other private information, you might
                prefer not to send those parts of the page. By clicking Black out, you can
                hide parts of the page before sending your feedback.
                You can either move your mouse pointer over the page and click the black box that
                appears, or click anywhere on the page and drag the mouse pointer over the sections
                you want to black out.
                To black out part of a highlighted area, click outside the highlighted area and
                drag across the part you want to black out.
                If you black out something by accident, click the remove icon () in the top right corner
                of the blacked out area to remove the blackout.
                Next step: Preview
              Step 5: Preview
                Click Next to see the report that you’re about to send. You may edit your
                description before you send your feedback. Google Feedback collects the
                following information along with your screenshot:
                your email address
                the URL and title of the page you’re visiting
                the browser and operating system you’re using, as well as any browser
                extensions you have installed
                the HTML structure of the page you’re visiting
                additional product data
                When you’re ready to send your feedback, click Submit.
                Next step: Send
              Step 6: Submit
                To ensure we get your feedback, please do not close the window until you see the
                confirmation message. To close Google Feedback, just click OK.
                You’re done and thank you for your feedback!
              Step 7: View your feedback
                You can view your feedback on the My Reports page. There you can
                check the information that you have sent using the feedback tool available in many
                of Google's web products.
              Google
              Privacy &amp; Terms
