            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            Why We Get Tech-Enabled Personalized Learning Wrong
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
People seem to have a lot of concerns about personalized learning, and not enough opportunities to voice them. I say that because, every time I think we’ve exhausted this thread, someone else chimes in with something new. Today, I share a note from Steve Peha on the value of recognizing the limits of technology and digital curriculum mapping. Steve founded Teaching That Makes Sense, a consulting firm that specializes in literacy and technology; is author of Be a Better Writer; and has written about ed tech in places like the Washington Post and Psychology Today. Here’s what he had to say:
Rick,
You recently wrote, “Every time I run one of these notes on personalized learning, I figure that we’re done.” While you may never be done, I think the notes have sparked an important conversation.
I was struck by the insight from Amplify CEO Larry Berger regarding the “engineering” model of personalized learning: “I spent a decade believing in this model—the map, the measure, and the library, all powered by big data algorithms. Here’s the problem: The map doesn’t exist, the measurement is impossible, and we have, collectively, built only 5% of the library.”
Larry’s right, the map doesn’t exist. Why? Because digital representations of curriculum paths and skill mappings within traditional school subjects can’t account for the varied ways kids learn.
Take reading, for example. Many K-2 readers just get by with decoding. En route to 3rd grade, where fluent chapter-book reading is expected, they stumble. They’re not stumbling on fluent chapter-book reading per se; they’re stumbling on an idiosyncratic mix of minimally learned precursor skills. Sometimes, middle schoolers suddenly, it seems, can’t read. But what they actually can’t do is handle the amount and type of reading required—something a digital curriculum map can’t easily account for.
Kids get stuck often. Not because they’re in the wrong place on a map, but because the map has no place for them to be. We’ve become so focused on adaptive curriculum delivery that we’ve paid little attention to the curriculum kids need and how they learn it.
After decades of magical thinking, technology’s promise in education remains dramatically unfulfilled. This calls for a dramatic shift in our thinking from what we want technology to do to what it actually does.
Of course, technology does many things. But four functions matter most:
1. Enabling us to do things we can’t
2. Automating things that would otherwise require attention
3. Accelerating getting things done
4. Amplifying impact
Whether we’re talking about washing machines, weed whackers, or word processors, all we can expect from technology is the opportunity to leverage these four functions. The same is true with personalized learning. The question isn’t, “How can a system teach kids to read?” It’s, “What can a system enable, automate, accelerate, and amplify that helps kids learn to read?”
This is where technology is limited in its ability to personalize learning. Students often grasp the most challenging things in “Aha!” moments not easily connected to mastery of prior material because they often occur after extended periods of failure. “Aha!” moments can’t easily be enabled, automated, accelerated, or amplified by technology.
Recall our struggling readers. Phrasing is one technique that helps kids make great progress. However, even though our language uses phrase-structure grammar, we don’t teach phrasing explicitly. This compromises expression, the most reliable indicator of during-reading comprehension—the point at which instruction is most valuable.
Technology isn’t good at detecting phrasing issues or helping kids master this skill across texts. Yet teaching phrasing is almost the simplest thing a human being can do. But it can’t be mapped because it’s needed all the time to different degrees that correspond to text type and text level, so it’s never explicitly taught in automated systems. I’ve heard from many kids learning to read that, when they learn to phrase, a kind of switch flips for them. This is one of those “Aha!” moments that all kids—especially young readers—benefit from.
But making sure kids phrase effectively involves more than digitizing curriculum we think they need, developing activities we think they might learn from, and constructing maps we think represent learning progressions.
We put a lot of thinking into personalized learning, but we don’t bring to it a correct understanding of what technology does and doesn’t do relative to what kids need to learn and how they learn best.
This means focusing technology on aspects of the teaching-learning process that are easily enabled, automated, accelerated, and amplified. It also means we need to stop over-selling personalized learning. Well-trained, well-resourced, and well-paid human beings do a pretty good job of facilitating both personalization and learning. Politically, we’ve abandoned the idea of training, rewarding, and resourcing teachers effectively, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t the right thing to do.
Solving the riddle of personalized learning therefore requires a thorough rethinking of technology-assisted education. But a thorough rethinking is what we must undertake, if for no reason other than that it might spare you, Rick, from having to write more of these notes on personalized learning.
It’s funny. A few years ago, Bror Saxberg and I touched on some of the same points that Steve makes here in our book Breakthrough Leadership in the Digital Age. But we mostly focused on the flip-side of the issue—on how to leverage the things that technology does well. Here, of course, Steve usefully reminds us of the places where technology comes up short. Going forward, we’ll be well-served if we’re able to keep both of these mind.
— Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated July 10, 2018
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            40 Years After the Bakke Decision, What’s the Future of Affirmative Action in College Admissions?
            July 6, 2018
            Next Article
            EdStat: Around the World, There are Approximately 264 Million Children Not in School
            July 11, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Straight Up Conversation: AltSchool Chief Impact Officer Devin Vodicka
		by Frederick Hess
		Straight Up Conversation: My Tech High CEO Matt Bowman
		by Frederick Hess
		Personalized Learning and Ensuring That Students Learn the Tedious Stuff
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
