				The 74
						News
Opinion
Pandemic
Analysis
Videos
Newsfeed
                        Trending Topics
						Coronavirus
EDlection 2020
4Fams
Keeping it 100
The 74 Interview
Union Report
Big Picture
Personalized Learning
						About
Supporters
Jobs
Newsletter
Code of Ethics
                            More from T74
							LA School Report
The Founders
The Alumni
TopSheet
						Contact Us
						Info@the74million.org
						Letters to the Editor
					Newsletter
Jobs
Supporters
About
Contact
The 74’s Code of Ethics
						Follow  us
							©2020 The 74 Media Inc. 
							Terms &amp; Conditions 
							Privacy Policy
						A Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom Interactions
						All States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at All
						It’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students Altogether
						Hipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like Me
						Adams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually Learned
						A School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than Ever
						Porter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the Same
						A Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and Independent
						Steele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their Options
						Integrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of Whiteness
						Students’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity Entrepreneurs
						Hodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’
						Abdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student Exchanges
						Rausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; Wellness
						Collective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can Succeed
						Sharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in Math
						Adams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just Fine
						Analysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual Successes
						4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your Children
						Taheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong
			Next
			Prev
				Opinion7 Days of Genius &amp;nbsp2 Geniuses, 2 Americas: Why I Want My Students to Read Ta-Nehisi Coates But Believe Lin-Manuel MirandaBy Robert Pondiscio | March 3, 2016
					TALKING POINTSWhat lessons for kids of color in @tanehisicoates’ grim view of America &amp; @Lin_Manuel Miranda’s exuberant one?.@rpondiscio: Reckoning with the hard truth of “Between the World and Me," embracing the hope of “Hamilton”
This is one article in a series that examines gifted education, classroom creativity and geniuses in society. (See our full genius archive) The 74 is a proud media partner of the 92nd Street Y's "7 Days of Genius," a global series of events orchestrated to explore "the power of genius to make a positive impact on the world" running March 5-12. See events: 92y.org/Genius.
I have no idea if Lin-Manuel Miranda has read Ta-Nehisi Coates’ “Between the World and Me”; nor am I aware if Coates has seen Miranda’s “Hamilton” on Broadway. But it would be fascinating to listen to the two of them discuss each other’s work and their views on what it means to be young, black or brown, and American today. 
All of us who work in classrooms with children of color would be richer if we could eavesdrop on such an exchange.  
The parallels are striking. Both are young men of color who have created two of the most praised and dissected cultural works of the moment. Both were recent and richly deserving Macarthur Foundation “genius grant” recipients. Each turns his creative lens on our nation. But their respective visions of America signaled through their work, could scarcely be more different. 
We can be a bit promiscuous in our use of the word “genius” but if it applies to anyone it’s Lin-Manuel Miranda. Anyone who can read, as he did, Ron Chernow’s 700-page doorstop biography of Alexander Hamilton and think, “Hip hop musical!” has a mind like few others. 
But where Miranda’s genius burns bright, Coates’ burns hot. He is, by a considerable margin, our most influential contemporary thinker on race. He has made that ongoing conversation both more potent and pointed, arguing, among other things, for reparations to compensate African Americans for the effects of slavery, Jim Crow, and to balance the nation’s moral debt. Miranda’s vision is capacious and generous; Coates’ is focused and prosecutorial.  
It is not an overstatement to say that “Hamilton” is a watershed moment in America’s cultural evolution and in the first rank of plays produced in our history. In less expert hands, a hip hop musical with a rapping Hamilton, Jefferson, and Washington would be “Springtime for Hitler” wince-worthy. But Miranda connects dots that no one else saw, drawing a straight line from America’s revolutionary moment to the contemporary music and idioms of youthful rebellion. The effect is mesmerizing.
It is impossible to think of our founders merely as dead white males once you have seen them embodied by young black and brown ones. On stage nightly, “Hamilton” transfers ownership of America’s narrative and ideals to those whose grip on them has been fraught for more than 200 years. And Miranda’s genius runs in both directions. Your parents and grandparents don’t like rap? They haven’t seen “Hamilton.”  
There’s likely not a history or civics teacher in America who wouldn’t pay dearly to have her students see “Hamilton”. It’s harder, however, to account for education’s romance with Coates, whose book “Between the World and Me” won the National Book Award and is already widely assigned in high school English classes and required reading on college campuses. 
The book, an extended letter to his son, is a powerful jeremiad, however his message seems hopeless, even nihilistic. Coates’ America is structurally and irredeemably racist, and our schools offer no sanctuary. “I came to see the streets and the schools as arms of the same beast,” he writes. “One enjoyed the official power of the state while the other enjoyed its implicit sanction. But fear and violence were the weaponry of both.” 
It is undoubtedly possible to read that as a teacher and think your personal commitment to social justice exempts you from this withering indictment. Coates does not just reject this notion, he sneers at it. 
“It does not matter that the ‘intentions’ of individual educators were noble. Forget about intentions. What any institution, or its agents, ‘intend’ for you is secondary.  No one directly proclaimed that schools were designed to sanctify failure and destruction. But a great number of educators spoke of ‘personal responsibility’ in a country authored and sustained by a criminal irresponsibility. The point of this language of ‘intention’ and ‘personal responsibility’ is broad exoneration. Mistakes were made. Bodies were broken. People were enslaved. We meant well. We tried our best. ‘Good intention’ is a hall pass through history, a sleeping pill that ensures the Dream.”
The Dream — the American Dream — is where Miranda and Coates part company. One says to young people of color it belongs to you; the other says it’s a lie. Perhaps Coates would tell Miranda that his view of “Hamilton” as immigrant American everyman (“Hey yo, I’m just like my country, I’m young, scrappy and hungry”) sheds no light on the black experience. 
Perhaps, he might insist, immigrants are allowed to rise up in America because they don't carry the weight of history on their shoulders the way African Americans do. Would Miranda, the son of immigrants, agree?  Coates might criticize “Hamilton” for a gauzy view of history, and soft-pedaling slavery; Miranda would likely point out the subject comes up in the third line of the show. 
Near the end of “Hamilton”, Miranda, in the title role, sings, 
“I wrote some notes at the beginning of a song someone will sing for me.
America, you great unfinished symphony, you sent for me.
You let me make a difference.
A place where even orphan immigrants
Can leave their fingerprints and rise up.”
Hamilton’s unfinished symphony invokes the Constitutional call to build a more perfect union. This belief in this possibility and the effort to bring it about, is why many of us teach—particularly those of us who work exclusively with children of color.  Thus it stings to read Coates saying, in effect, don’t waste your time. 
Wittingly or not, his message to young people of color is you have had the great misfortune to be born in a country that is determined only to break your black body. 
Coates’ America is “Egypt without the possibility of the Exodus,” in David Brooks’ memorable phrase, “African-American men are caught in a crushing logic, determined by the past, from which there is no escape.”  
For teachers, to see America through the eyes of Ta-Nehisi Coates is to see ourselves as either oppressor or the oppressor’s tool. No other outcome is acknowledged or offered.
For the moment, Miranda seems to have the upper hand in this argument. “Hamilton” is the toast of Broadway; its soundtrack one of the most downloaded rap albums in history.  Its praises sung by AP U.S. History teachers, its lyrics sung from the backseats of minivans. However, Coates may have the last word with our students. 
Works of genius endure. Ten years hence, 50 years hence, Coates’s memoir will arrive in English class unchanged. By that time “Hamilton” will be among the most performed high school musicals in America. Lin-Manuel Miranda’s music and lyrics will remain, but performed by a white cast of teenagers in an American suburban high school, as it inevitably will be, “Hamilton” will sacrifice a bit of the moment and the cultural context that makes it great. 
It will be a challenge for Miranda to ensure that the enduring message of “Hamilton” survives when most of our children’s exposure to his transcendent show will be not on Broadway or iTunes, but onstage in high schools, many of them far from diverse.  Coates’ message will remain potent, persuasive, and uncut. Perhaps this makes him the greater genius. He works in a medium that only time can dilute. The best we can hope for is that he proves to be a poor prophet. 
It is simply not my place to disagree with Coates. I have not lived a day outside of “The Dream” he derides. In the wake of Ferguson, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, and too many others to catalogue, I have no choice but to accept that he has come honestly by his dim view of America. 
However, as a teacher who works exclusively with students of color, I do not have the luxury — none of us do — not to offer some hope to our students on behalf of this country, whose optimistic citizens built our schools and pay our salaries, yet which still has much to answer for. For now, at least we can say this: A diverse nation that produces a Ta-Nehisi Coates and a Lin-Manuel Miranda is one in which something is going very right.  
For all the differences between these two geniuses, both Coates and Miranda deserve to be heard, pondered and debated equally. I will hang my hope here: I want my students to read “Between the World and Me.” But I want them to believe “Hamilton.”
WATCH: A Chicago School Leader Now Officially a MacArthur ‘Genius’
					Submit a Letter to the Editor
				March 3, 2016 Robert PondiscioRobert Pondiscio is a senior fellow at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute and teaches civics at Democracy Prep, a Harlem charter school. He is the author of the new book “How the Other Half Learns” (Avery, 2019).contributors@the74million.org				
				Submit a Letter to the Editor
				TALKING POINTSWhat lessons for kids of color in @tanehisicoates’ grim view of America &amp; @Lin_Manuel Miranda’s exuberant one?.@rpondiscio: Reckoning with the hard truth of “Between the World and Me," embracing the hope of “Hamilton”
					Sign Up for the T74 Newsletter
						Submit
				MOST READParents File Lawsuits to Halt School Face Mask Mandates as Districts Impose Health Rules to Slow PandemicWhen the Point of the Pod Is Equity: How Small Grants Are Empowering Parents of Underserved Students to Form Pandemic MicroschoolsYouth Suicide: The Other Public Health CrisisPhoto Tour: What Back to School Looked Like in 16 Countries Around the World, Where Little About the Classroom (or Family Garage) Feels Familiar Amid the PandemicNew Report Estimates School Closures’ Long-Term Impact on the U.S. Economy at More Than $14 TrillionShut Out of Schools Due to Pandemic, Many Education Researchers Say Their Work Is ‘In Shambles’				
					Read Next
					OpinionA Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom InteractionsOpinionAll States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at AllOpinionIt’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students AltogetherOpinionHipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like MeOpinionAdams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually LearnedOpinionA School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than EverOpinionPorter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the SameOpinionA Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and IndependentOpinionSteele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their OptionsOpinionIntegrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of WhitenessOpinionStudents’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity EntrepreneursOpinionHodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’OpinionAbdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student ExchangesOpinionRausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; WellnessOpinionCollective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can SucceedOpinionSharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in MathOpinionAdams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just FineOpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesOpinion4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your ChildrenOpinionTaheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong				
					You might have missed...
					OpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesOpinionCollective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can SucceedOpinionIntegrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of WhitenessOpinionAll States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at All				
