https://www.who.int/about/who-academy
WHO Academy
Section navigation
Revolutionizing lifelong learning in health.
A revolution is underway in adult learning. New and more effective methods of conveying knowledge and skills to working people. New technologies like artificial intelligence and virtual reality.  Experiential learning approaches that recognize what
    trainees already know while offering a more immersive, effective and impactful learning experience.
Technology-fuelled. Driven by the latest science in how adults learn.  These are the advancements that will empower the world’s growing health workforce to build healthy societies and economies – and to lead the way toward fulfilment
    of the health-related Sustainable Development Goals.
A new focus on learning for impact and building competencies to make the world a healthier place.  This is the thinking behind the World Health Organization’s new WHO Academy, a state-of-the-art training institution that aims to bring the lifelong
    learning revolution to the health sector and reach 10 million learners around the world by 2023.
As a centre for delivering advanced digital and classroom training to health workers and others around the world, the WHO Academy will be a game changer for lifelong learning in health.
Scheduled to launch its first online courses in May 2021 and headquartered at a futuristic campus in Lyon, France, the Academy will be a globally accessible school for the future, combining the latest technologies in digital and remote learning with advancements
    in adult learning science to offer innovative, personalised and multilingual training that meets priority needs.
The WHO Academy is not a separate legal entity but is being set up as an internal WHO division that will be headed by a Chief Learning Officer at the level of a WHO Assistant Director-General. The division will therefore be an integral part of WHO under
    the management authority of the Director-General.

Why a WHO Academy?
With the deadline for the Sustainable Development Goals now less than a decade away, only a handful of countries are on track to meet all of the health-related targets.  Meanwhile, despite huge growth in the global health workforce, there will still
    be a shortfall of 18 million health workers by 2030, with the biggest workforce development challenges falling on the lowest income countries.
The key problem is this:  as the evidence base in medical science doubles every few months – and with that its potential to help countries improve health outcomes – it still takes more than a decade to implement the newest practices and
    normative guidance throughout the global health workforce.
Advancements in adult learning science present new and enormously effective ways to get critical knowledge to front line health workers and others who need it – and to verify the competencies they gain – so they can do their jobs better, increase their impact on improving health, and save lives.
A major reason for this lies in the shortcomings of currently-used training models.  Classroom learning can be limited in capacity and expensive to deliver, while online learning typically lacks opportunities for hands-on practice, collaboration
    and verification of competencies gained.
What’s needed are new ways to speedily get knowledge, evidence and information into the hands of people who can make a difference.  These are the medical professionals and other members of the health workforce, or public health officials, regulators
    and policy makers who play a role in transforming knowledge into practice – or even ordinary people who are caregivers in their own homes and neighborhoods.
Fortunately, the science of adult learning is also advancing at breakneck speed.  This has led to new tools and methods that can achieve greater impact through lifelong learning at a much bigger scale.
Improving the speed, efficiency and effectiveness in which the latest health knowledge and evidence gets to health practitioners worldwide – which is the focus of the WHO Academy – will empower doctors, nurses, public health officials and
    other health workers to accelerate advancements in medical care and practices to patients and communities.


Related links


New! Augmented reality PPE course on the WHO Academy mobile learning app
The app has a new feature that deploys augmented reality (AR) technology to help health workers address a critical challenge that many face every day during the pandemic – staying free of infection while they care for patients.  This 20-minute course demonstrates the proper techniques and sequence to put on and remove personal protective equipment (PPE), which are critical to keeping health workers safe.


News
Launch of the WHO Academy and the WHO Info mobile applications
France pledges US$100 million (€90 million) for WHO Academy
Collaboration between France and WHO to realize the vision of the WHO Academy
Related topics
13th General Programme of Work (GPW)
Health Workforce
WHO Academy request for proposals in adult learning, learning technologies, digital marketing and evaluation services
Call for Experts : WHO Academy Advisory Group
