				The 74
						News
Opinion
Pandemic
Analysis
Videos
Newsfeed
                        Trending Topics
						Coronavirus
EDlection 2020
4Fams
Keeping it 100
The 74 Interview
Union Report
Big Picture
Personalized Learning
						About
Supporters
Jobs
Newsletter
Code of Ethics
                            More from T74
							LA School Report
The Founders
The Alumni
TopSheet
						Contact Us
						Info@the74million.org
						Letters to the Editor
					Newsletter
Jobs
Supporters
About
Contact
The 74’s Code of Ethics
						Follow  us
							©2020 The 74 Media Inc. 
							Terms &amp; Conditions 
							Privacy Policy
						A Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom Interactions
						All States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at All
						It’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students Altogether
						Hipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like Me
						A School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than Ever
						Adams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually Learned
						Porter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the Same
						A Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and Independent
						Steele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their Options
						Integrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of Whiteness
						Students’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity Entrepreneurs
						Hodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’
						Abdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student Exchanges
						Rausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; Wellness
						Collective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can Succeed
						Sharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in Math
						Adams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just Fine
						Analysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual Successes
						4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your Children
						Taheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong
			Next
			Prev
				OpinionPondiscio: Civil Disobedience Means Facing Consequences. School-Sanctioned Walkouts Rob Students of That LessonBy Robert Pondiscio | March 13, 2018
				Students from Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Maryland, march down Colesville Road in support of gun reform legislation on Feb. 21, 2018. (Photo credit: Win McNamee/Getty Images)
					TALKING POINTSStudent civic engagement is to be encouraged, but that doesn’t mean it must meet with official approval. Indeed, it is essential that it does not.If students have permission to walk out, it’s no longer student activism
					If Rose Thomas were in my high school civics class, I’d give her an A.
Thomas is the student council president of Bexley High School in Columbus, Ohio, and a leader of a planned student walkout to protest gun violence in schools. Those who walk out of their classes at Bexley will serve an hour-long detention, the school’s standard penalty for cutting class. But they’re not upset about it. Thomas and her fellow protesters wisely acknowledge that their act of civil disobedience has no point without a punishment, and the district can’t show favoritism for one viewpoint or issue. If Bexley’s principal “doesn’t punish the demonstrators supporting Parkland, ‘he has to [allow] it for every cause,’ ” Thomas explained to The Columbus Dispatch.
If every student had such a solid grasp of the tensions between rights and responsibilities, and an equally clear-eyed view of the moral authority undergirding protest and activism, I’d stop worrying about civics education and retire happily.
Student civic engagement is to be encouraged, even celebrated, but that doesn’t mean it must meet with official approval. Indeed, it is essential that it does not. If students have permission to walk out, it’s no longer student activism at all. It’s a field trip. And that’s part of the teachable moment, too. The message to students should be clear: If this issue is important to you, then it’s worth the consequence. Otherwise, you’re not protesting gun violence, you’re boycotting chemistry class. By its very nature, an act of civil disobedience means the protester refuses to comply with rule, norms, and expectations. Permission, by definition, restores the element of compliance, robbing the protest of any meaning.
In the days since the protests were first announced and organized, schools have wrestled with how to handle the anticipated 17-minute walkout, one minute for each victim killed in the Parkland shooting. Some — unwisely, in my opinion — have overtly said they support staff and students who are protesting; others have announced that no disciplinary action will be taken, which is de facto approval. From a civics education standpoint, however, the best thing schools can do to validate the walkout as authentic student activism is to make it clear that all school discipline standards will be enforced. Then let students decide whether their cause is worth the price, or just an excuse to skip class.
There is no doubt that schools are well within their legal rights to hold students accountable for walking out to protest. Students don’t lose their First Amendment rights during the school day, but courts have generally recognized limits to the exercise of free speech when it “materially and substantially interferes” with the functioning of a school. A mass walkout meets the test, as the American Civil Liberties Union has acknowledged, even as it has cautioned schools not to punish students excessively for participating in the demonstration.
Schools that refuse to enforce standard discipline over the Parkland protest may regret it down the road. The vast majority of schools are publicly financed and government-run. If school officials grant students permission to walk out to protest gun violence (a refusal to enforce disciplinary norms is tantamount to official approval), they must also not punish those who disrupt learning to protest in favor of gun rights, or for or against abortion, police violence, or any conceivable political cause. This includes viewpoints many in a school community might deem repellent. Thus, the only sane policy on the Parkland protest is an aggressively neutral stance — with consequences.
As someone who is deeply concerned about the role of our schools in preparing young people for citizenship, I expect to be cheered by Wednesday’s display of student activism, regardless of whether I agree with its political agenda. But as a civics teacher, my message to students would be that the courage of your convictions carries a price. If your cause is just, you should pay it with honor and dignity.
Just ask Rose Thomas.
Robert Pondiscio is a senior fellow at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute. He is also a senior adviser to Democracy Prep Public Schools in Harlem, New York. He writes and speaks extensively on education and education-reform issues, with an emphasis on literacy, curriculum, teaching, and urban education.
					Submit a Letter to the Editor
				March 13, 2018 Robert PondiscioRobert Pondiscio is a senior fellow at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute and teaches civics at Democracy Prep, a Harlem charter school. He is the author of the new book “How the Other Half Learns” (Avery, 2019).contributors@the74million.org				
				Submit a Letter to the Editor
				TALKING POINTSStudent civic engagement is to be encouraged, but that doesn’t mean it must meet with official approval. Indeed, it is essential that it does not.If students have permission to walk out, it’s no longer student activism
					Sign Up for the T74 Newsletter
						Submit
				MOST READParents File Lawsuits to Halt School Face Mask Mandates as Districts Impose Health Rules to Slow PandemicWhen the Point of the Pod Is Equity: How Small Grants Are Empowering Parents of Underserved Students to Form Pandemic MicroschoolsYouth Suicide: The Other Public Health CrisisPhoto Tour: What Back to School Looked Like in 16 Countries Around the World, Where Little About the Classroom (or Family Garage) Feels Familiar Amid the PandemicNew Report Estimates School Closures’ Long-Term Impact on the U.S. Economy at More Than $14 TrillionShut Out of Schools Due to Pandemic, Many Education Researchers Say Their Work Is ‘In Shambles’				
					Read Next
					OpinionA Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom InteractionsOpinionAll States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at AllOpinionIt’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students AltogetherOpinionHipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like MeOpinionA School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than EverOpinionAdams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually LearnedOpinionPorter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the SameOpinionA Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and IndependentOpinionSteele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their OptionsOpinionIntegrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of WhitenessOpinionStudents’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity EntrepreneursOpinionHodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’OpinionAbdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student ExchangesOpinionRausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; WellnessOpinionCollective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can SucceedOpinionSharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in MathOpinionAdams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just FineOpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesOpinion4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your ChildrenOpinionTaheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong				
					You might have missed...
					OpinionHodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’Opinion4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your ChildrenOpinionSharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in MathOpinionAdams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just Fine				
