            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            Embracing Screen Time
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
            This holiday season we’re taking a break from our regular programming to offer a series of reflective blog entries in the holiday spirit. Instead of political commentary, we’re planning to wrap up 2016 by bringing you good news and promising innovations in K-12 education.
Before you start to feel guilty about all the time your children are spending in front of screens this winter break, consider how much they might be learning from all the screen time.
Games and Apps
In 2015 we posted an article by Greg Toppo on how video games can improve math skills, which was an excerpt from his book, The Game Believes in You: How digital play can make our kids smarter.
In 2014, parent and technology thought leader Marie Bjerede wrote an article for Education Next about the educational app landscape.
That piece was a big picture look and she followed it up with a separate article about apps and websites that offer a less structured way of learning here.
We also asked a few other people who are tech experts, policy wonks, parents, or all three to tell us about their favorite learning apps.
In School
How much time should students spend looking at screens when they are at school? Paul Peterson and Michael Horn decided to crowdsource the answer. They found that teachers believe that students, once they reach high school, should spend about 20 percent of their instructional time on a computer, while for the general public that number is 30 percent and blended-learning experts say 40 percent.
Mike Petrilli argues for the strategic use of on-topic streaming video to boost content knowledge in science and social studies for younger kids here.
And Michael Horn looks at how schools can use virtual reality here.
—Education Next
					Last updated December 23, 2016
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            A School That Works for My Kid
            December 22, 2016
            Next Article
            The Top Ten 2016 RHSU Columns
            December 28, 2016
We Recommend You Read
		Complement and ‘Commoditize’ Teachers, But Don’t Substitute For Them With Tech
		by Michael B. Horn
		New Research Answers Whether Technology is Good or Bad for Learning
		by Michael B. Horn
		In the News: Using Amazon Echo, Google Home to Learn: Skill of the Future or Bad Idea?
		by Education Next
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
