            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionState PolicyTeachers and Teaching
                            Teachers Have the Nation’s Highest Retirement Costs. But They’ll Never See the Benefits
                                By Chad Aldeman                                                                                                                            
		Chad Aldeman
            As teachers have staged walkouts and strikes in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Kentucky, and perhaps Arizona, most of the news coverage has focused on big-picture questions about state education budgets or average teacher salaries. But this misses a large trend going on in the background — teachers, like other workers in the American economy, are forgoing base salary increases in favor of in-kind benefits.
In 2016, I wrote a paper called “The Pension Pac-Man,” attempting to raise awareness of these issues. Using national data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and other sources, I found that teacher salaries hadn’t increased, in inflation-adjusted terms, since the early 1990s. But while base teacher salaries have not risen, total teacher compensation has, driven by large increases in health care and retirement costs. That is, there’s a growing disconnect between what teachers are paid and what their employers pay for them.
This trend has accelerated rapidly over the past 10 years. Across the country, benefit costs are increasing much faster than salaries. At some level, this trend is playing out across the broader American economy as the baby boom generation begins to retire and as health care costs have soared. Over the past decade, civilian employers have paid average annual wage increases of 2.3 percent, their health care contributions have risen by 3.2 percent, and retirement costs have increased by 4.9 percent a year.
Schools have increased their share going toward benefits even faster than other employers have. To see what this looks like visually, consider the following graph. It uses the bureau’s Employer Costs for Employee Compensation data on public school teachers. On average, over the past 10 years, teacher salaries have increased 1.4 percent a year, compared with 4 percent for health insurance and 7.8 percent for retirement.
As a percentage of each worker’s compensation, teacher health care costs are on the high end, but they are not an extreme outlier. In contrast, teachers have by far the highest retirement costs, even compared with other public-sector employees. While the average civilian employee receives $1.92 per hour worked for retirement benefits, teachers receive $7.38 per hour in retirement compensation. As a percentage of the total compensation package, teacher retirement benefits eat up more than twice as much as other workers’ (11.6 percent versus 5.4 percent).
To be clear, the data reflects the employer’s cost to employ someone, not what the employee actually receives. Unfortunately for teachers, the rising costs of their retirement systems do not reflect improved benefits; they’re primarily a function of debt. Within pension systems, there are two types of contributions: the cost needed to provide benefits (called the normal cost) and the cost of paying down debt (amortization costs). The normal cost is the amount of money a pension plan projects it needs to contribute now to pay benefits in future years. The amortization cost is the amount required to pay down accrued debt.
If pension costs were rising because normal costs were rising, that would reflect an improvement in teacher benefits. But that’s not what’s happening: Today, amortization costs, not normal costs, make up the biggest proportion of employer retirement costs. For every $100 paid in salary, states and school districts are paying $12 toward pension debts and only $5 in benefits for current teachers.
This doesn’t even get into the distributional issues in traditional teacher pension plans. All the numbers I’ve talked about so far reflect averages across the entire teaching profession, but pension plan benefits are so backloaded that most short- and medium-term teachers get far less. The promise of a pension benefit pays off for only the 15 to 20 percent of teachers who remain as educators in one state for their entire career.
In other words, teachers are getting squeezed in multiple ways. On one hand, state and local budgets are not providing as much to education as they did 10 years ago. Those cuts are visible and easily quantifiable. It’s much harder for teachers to see that their take-home pay is being diminished due to rising benefit costs.
But these trends can’t continue forever. After all, teachers can’t buy food, afford child care, or pay their mortgages with the promise of future benefits — especially ones that never come.
— Chad Aldeman
Chad Aldeman is a principal at Bellwether Education Partners
This post originally appeared on The 74.
					Last updated April 13, 2018
					License this Content
			Chad AldemanAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Let’s Not Miss the Opportunity In Weighted Student Funding Pilot
            April 12, 2018
            Next Article
            The Costs, Opportunities, and Limitations of the Expansion of 529 Education Savings Accounts
            April 16, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		What Are the Options for States Dealing With Unfunded Pension Liabilities?
		by Chad Aldeman
		Pension Fix Depends On Accurate Counting
		by Chad Aldeman
		Why Teachers Need Portable Benefits
		by Leslie Kan
                                    Chad Aldeman	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
