            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogGovernance and LeadershipOpinionState Policy
                            A State School Board that Works
                                By Michael W. Kirst                                                                                                                            
		Michael W. Kirst
Checker Finn’s reflections on his four-year “sentence” on the Maryland state board of education may well capture frustrations shared by many of those who are called into this form of public service, but my own experiences in California suggest that these frustrations are not inevitable.
I served for 15 years on the California state board of education, most of it as board president. My first and fourth terms were separated by 40 years; Governor Jerry Brown appointed me from 1975-82 and again from 2011-2019. My first two terms were pretty similar to what Finn describes. The elected state superintendent, Wilson Riles, was far more influential than the board, and the governor’s attention tended to be on other issues than K-12 education. The coalition of education interest groups was a formidable force.
But my recent two terms starting in 2011 were a wholly different experience. Governor Brown was immersed in education reform while he was mayor of Oakland. He had tried to take over the Oakland schools and failed, and then started two charter schools. He returned to state office eager to make change.
Brown decided to use the state board of education as his instrument of change. He abolished the ineffectual Office of the Secretary of Education and put the state board in his own office. The executive director of the state board was also the special assistant to the governor for education. I had advised Brown on education since 1974 and was able to work closely with him and the California Department of Education. We hired 11 professional policy analysts for the board, and forged close relations with the influential Department of Finance within the Governor’s office.
California’s approach was systemic standards-based reform using a full array of aligned policies for almost all components of state education policy. We focused on improving classroom instruction with an awareness that better teaching proceeds from inside the schools out. It helped that we had a rapidly rising tide of revenue from state economic growth and a statewide referendum for a tax increase. There were large Democratic party majorities in both houses of the legislature working closely with Governor Brown and state board staff.
A crucial decision was to avoid state policy overload upon local districts by not adopting all the changes promoted by the Obama administration. Unlike in most states, the California state board, not the state education department, is the federally designated state education agency to make decisions concerning federal aid implementation. Some of the Obama administration’s initiatives did not fit with our systemic, aligned approach and others pushed implementation too fast. The California way involves patience, persistence, humility, and continuous improvement. California never received Race to the Top funds or a state waiver. Governor Brown supported quality charter schools and they grew rapidly.
The state legislature realized that California’s complex, interlocking reforms required a lot of delegation to the state board to write regulations and guidance. I limited the ceremonial parts of our board agenda to focus on detailed implementation issues. Legislators came to testify at our meetings to recommend specific regulations.
The policy accomplishments that resulted from our board’s work are documented in great detail in The California Way: The Golden State’s Quest to Build an Equitable and Excellent Education System. It now appears that California will be following the same policy approach for 16 years because Governor Newsom and new State Board President Linda Darling-Hammond have clearly signaled that they want to build upon the current foundation.
Michael W. Kirst is Professor Emeritus of Education and Business Administration at Stanford University. 
					Last updated March 29, 2019
					License this Content
			Michael W. KirstAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            In the News: School Choice and Lotteries in D.C., New Orleans, and Beyond
            March 28, 2019
            Next Article
            In the News: California’s K-12 Enrollment Drops Again, Charter Schools See Increase
            April 1, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Reflections on a Four-Year Sentence
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		Who Signs Your Paycheck?
		by Jonathan Butcher
                                    Michael W. Kirst	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
