            Skip to Main Content
                                                                            Scores
                                                                            News
                                                                                                        Analysis
                                                                                                      NHL Insider
                                                                                                      NHL Draft
                                                                                                      Free Agency
                                                                                                      Trades &amp; Transactions
                                                                                                      Fantasy Hockey
                                                                                                      NHL Awards
                                                                                                      Super 16 Rankings
                                                                                                      Behind the Numbers
                                                                                                      Coaches Room
                                                                                                      NHL Seattle
                                                                                                                    Spotlight
                                                                                                                  Stanley Cup Playoffs
                                                                                                                  This is Hockey
                                                                                                                  Hockey is for Everyone
                                                                                                                  Color of Hockey
                                                                                                                  Hockey Fights Cancer
                                                                                                                  Player Safety
                                                                                                                  NHL Situation Room
                                                                                                                  NHL Green
                                                                                                                  NHL.com/Photos
                                                                                                                  Podcasts
                                                                            Video
                                                                                                        More Video
                                                                                                      Stanley Cup Playoffs
                                                                                                      Most Popular
                                                                                                      Game Recaps
                                                                                                      Situation Room
                                                                                                      Player Safety Decisions
                                                                                                      Live Game Video
                                                                                                      100 Greatest Players
                                                                                                      YouTube.com/NHL
                                                                                                                    NHL Network
                                                                                                                  NHL Network Home
                                                                                                                  Channel Finder
                                                                                                                  Live Game Schedule
                                                                                                                  Best of NHL Network
                                                                                                                  Fantasy Hockey
                                                                            Playoffs
                                                                                                    Playoffs
                                                                                                  Playoffs Coverage
                                                                                                  Bracket Challenge
                                                                            Stats
                                                                                                        Explore
                                                                                                      League Leaders
                                                                                                      By Player
                                                                                                      By Team
                                                                                                      Enhanced
                                                                                                      Milestones
                                                                                                      Standings
                                                                                                      All-Time NHL Results
                                                                                                      Records.NHL.com
                                                                            Schedule
                                                                                                        Schedule
                                                                                                      NHL Draft
                                                                                                      Stanley Cup Playoffs
                                                                                                      Future Events
                                                                                                                    Spotlight
                                                                                                                  Betting Lines
                                                                                                                  NHL Awards
                                                                                                                  This Date in NHL History
                                                                                                NHL® Betting Lines powered by:
                                                                            Players
                                                                                                        Spotlight
                                                                                                      Player Search
                                                                                                      League Leaders
                                                                                                      2020 Draft Rankings
                                                                                                      All-Time Trophies &amp; Winners
                                                                                                      100 Greatest NHL Players
                                                                                                      Hall of Fame
                                                                            App
                                                                            Tickets
                                                                                                    Tickets
                                                                                                  NHL Tickets
                                                                                                  NHL Ticket Exchange
                                                                            Fantasy
                                                                                                    Fantasy
                                                                                                  NHL.com/Fantasy
                                                                                                  NHL Fantasy on Ice Podcast
                                                                                                  Top 250 Rankings
                                                                                                  Top 100 Forwards
                                                                                                  Top 50 Defensemen
                                                                                                  Top 25 Goalies
                                                                                                  Offseason News Roundup
                                                                                                  Fantasy Pool Cheat Sheet
                                                                                                  NHL Hat Trick Challenge
                                                                                                Play FanDuel
                                                                            Shop
                                                                                                    Shop
                                                                                                  NHL Shop
                                                                                                  Auctions
                                                                                                  Jerseys
                                                                                                  Men
                                                                                                  Women
                                                                                                  Kids
                                                                                                  Collectibles &amp; Photos
                                                                                                  Photos.com
                                                                                                  NYC NHL Store
                                                                                                  Get NHL Credit Card
                                                                                                Game Used Pucks
                                                                            Teams
                                                                                                            Eastern Conference
                                                                                                                    Atlantic
                                                                                                                            Boston
                                                                                                                            Buffalo
                                                                                                                            Detroit
                                                                                                                            Florida
                                                                                                                            Montréal
                                                                                                                            Ottawa
                                                                                                                            Tampa Bay
                                                                                                                            Toronto
                                                                                                                    Metropolitan
                                                                                                                            Carolina
                                                                                                                            Columbus
                                                                                                                            New Jersey
                                                                                                                            NY Islanders
                                                                                                                            NY Rangers
                                                                                                                            Philadelphia
                                                                                                                            Pittsburgh
                                                                                                                            Washington
                                                                                                            Western Conference
                                                                                                                    Central
                                                                                                                            Chicago
                                                                                                                            Colorado
                                                                                                                            Dallas
                                                                                                                            Minnesota
                                                                                                                            Nashville
                                                                                                                            St. Louis
                                                                                                                            Winnipeg
                                                                                                                    Pacific
                                                                                                                            Anaheim
                                                                                                                            Arizona
                                                                                                                            Calgary
                                                                                                                            Edmonton
                                                                                                                            Los Angeles
                                                                                                                            San Jose
                                                                                                                            Vancouver
                                                                                                                            Vegas
                                                                                                                                                Seattle
                                                                                                                                            Coming 2021-2022 Season
                                                                            NHL.TV
                                                                                                        Get NHL.TV
                                                                                                      Subscribe Now
                                                                                                      NHL.TV Free Game Schedule
                                                                                                      My Account
                                                                                                      Support
                                                                                                      Download NHL App
                                                                                                      Center Ice Subscribers Activate Now
                                                                            language (EN)
                                                                                                                    Languages
                                                                                                                                    ENGLISH
                                                                                                                                    Welcome to NHL.com, the official site of the National Hockey League
                                                                                                                                    FRANÇAIS
                                                                                                                                    Bienvenue à LNH.com , le site officiel de la Ligue nationale de hockey
                                                                                                                                    РУССКИЙ
                                                                                                                                    Добро пожаловать на NHL.com, официальный сайт Национальной хоккейной лиги
                                                                                                                                    SUOMI
                                                                                                                                    Tervetuloa NHL:n viralliselle nettisivustolle NHL.comiin
                                                                                                                                    SVENSKA
                                                                                                                                    Välkommen till NHL.com, NHL:s officiella web-sida
                                                                                                                                    ČEŠTINA
                                                                                                                                    Vítejte na NHL.com, oficiálních stránkách National Hockey League
                                                                                                                                    SLOVENČINA
                                                                                                                                    Vitajte na NHL.com, oficiálnych stránkach National Hockey League
                                                                                                                                    DEUTSCH
                                                                                                                                    Willkommen auf NHL.com, der offiziellen Seite der National Hockey League
                                                                                                                                    ESPAÑOL
                                                                                                                                    Bienvenido a NHL.com, el sitio oficial de la National Hockey League
                            News
                           Search 
                                        Headlines
                                        Featured Writers
                                        NHL Insider
                                        NHL Draft
                                        Free Agency
                                        Short Shifts
                                        Fantasy Hockey
                                        Trades &amp; Transactions
                                        Behind the Numbers
                                        Over The Boards | Dan Rosen
                                        Color of Hockey
                                        Coaches Room
                                        Seattle Kraken News
                                        Unmasked
                                        Prospects
                                        This Date in NHL History
                                        Five Questions With ...
                                        Who Wore it Best
                                        Press Releases
                                        Postseason Coverage
                                        Special Events
                                    Special Events
                                        NHL Draft
                                        NHL Awards
                                        All-Star Game Coverage
                                        NHL Stadium Series
                                        All-Star Skills Competition
                                        NHL Winter Classic
                                        World Junior Championship
                                        NHL Heritage Classic
                                        Hall of Fame
                                        NHL Global Series
                                        Kraft Hockeyville Canada
                                        Kraft Hockeyville USA
                                        NHL China Games
                                        Gaming
                                    Postseason Coverage
                                        Playoffs News &amp; Features
                                        Cup Final | Lightning vs. Stars
                                        Round 3 | Lightning vs. Islanders
                                        Round 3 | Golden Knights vs. Stars
                                        Round 2 | Flyers vs. Islanders
                                        Round 2 | Lightning vs. Bruins
                                        Round 2 | Golden Knights vs. Canucks
                                        Round 2 | Avalanche vs. Stars
                                        Round 1 | Flyers vs. Canadiens
                                        Round 1 | Lightning vs. Blue Jackets
                                        Round 1 | Capitals vs. Islanders
                                        Round 1 | Bruins vs. Hurricanes
                                        Round 1 | Golden Knights vs. Blackhawks
                                        Round 1 | Avalanche vs. Coyotes
                                        Round 1 | Stars vs. Flames
                                        Round 1 | Blues vs. Canucks
                                        Stanley Cup Qualifiers News
                                    Featured Writers
                                        Amalie Benjamin
                                        Tim Campbell
                                        Nicholas J. Cotsonika
                                        William Douglas
                                        Tom Gulitti
                                        Tracey Myers
                                        Dan Rosen
                                        Dave Stubbs
                                        Mike Zeisberger
                            Headlines
                                                Saku Koivu retires after 18 seasons in NHL
                                Saku Koivu retires after 18 seasons in NHL
                                        NHL.com @NHLdotcom
                                Former Montreal Canadiens and Anaheim Ducks center Saku Koivu announced his retirement Wednesday.
                            "Looking back at my 22 years of pro hockey, first in Finland and then in the NHL, I feel truly blessed and fulfilled," he said in a statement released by the NHL Players' Association. "I have been contemplating retirement for quite some time and am very confident in my decision at this time and place."
                            Koivu, 39, played 18 seasons in the NHL, appearing in 1,124 regular-season games and 80 Stanley Cup Playoff games. He scored 255 goals and had 832 points in the regular season, and 18 goals and 59 points in the playoffs.
                             Longtime Montreal Canadiens and Anaheim Ducks center Saku Koivu announced his retirement Wednesday after 18 seasons in the NHL. (Photo: Graig Abel/NHLI, Debora Robinson/NHLI)
                            He was captain of the Montreal Canadiens for nine seasons, from 1999-2000 to 2008-09, becoming the first European-born player to hold that role.
                            "I feel I was truly lucky to have a chance to play for the legendary Canadiens for so many years and serve as captain and share that great honor with many truly legendary captains from before my time," he said.
                            Koivu spent the final five seasons of his NHL career in Anaheim with fellow Finn Teemu Selanne, who retired after last season.
                            “[Saku is] a great human being and everything he did was well-deserved,” Ducks coach Bruce Boudreau said. “I want to congratulate him and thank him for the years."
                            The Canadiens selected Koivu in the first round (No. 21) of the 1993 NHL Draft. He ranks in the top five among Finnish-born NHL players in games played, goals, assists and points.
                            Koivu was a regular for the Finnish national team and served as captain. As a professional he won nine international medals, including four in the Olympics (bronze in 1994, 1998 and 2010; silver in 2006). Koivu missed the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics and the majority of the 2001-02 season while receiving treatment for non-Hodgkins intra-abdominal lymphoma.
                            Koivu returned to the Canadiens lineup in the 80th game of the 2001-02 season and received a long ovation from the fans in Montreal. He was awarded the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy in 2002.
                            "You're going to look back and see all the things he did with the Canadiens and the Ducks and the Finnish national team as well, I think he has the respect of each and every team and in each and every town that he played for, from his country, from his teammates and from the staffs," his younger brother, Minnesota Wild forward Mikko Koivu, told the Star-Tribune. "He has always been a class act, and I think you're going to hear that a lot from around the League and around the hockey world."
                            Saku also left a legacy in Montreal with the creation of the Saku Koivu Foundation in 2002, which has raised $8 million to buy a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanner for the Montreal General Hospital that has aided in the treatment of cancer patients.
                            "My time in Montreal was special beyond playing hockey," Koivu said. "Thank you to the fans and lovely people of Montreal for your support and love, and for providing my family and me with wonderful memories that we will always cherish as well as the immense support during my illness. Thank you with all my heart to Dr. and Mrs. David Mulder and Dr. and Mrs. Blair Whittemore and the staff at Montreal General Hospital for saving my life."
                            Bonne retraite, Saku. Merci pour tout! / Happy retirement, Saku Koivu. Thank you for everything! pic.twitter.com/4Ss9eeS2QA
                            — Canadiens Montréal (@CanadiensMTL) September 10, 2014  
                            Saku Koivu is a MAN among men. He was an inspiration, a mentor, a friend, and an unbelievable competitor. He showed me what it meant to be
                            — Sheldon Souray (@SSouray) September 10, 2014  
                            2. A professional in a City that didn't expect anything less than Excellence. He set the bar high both on and off the ice and truly showed
                            — Sheldon Souray (@SSouray) September 10, 2014  
                            3. the world what the word "courage" meant. Saku is truly one of the greatest guys I've ever met. I am grateful to have called a teammate.
                            — Sheldon Souray (@SSouray) September 10, 2014  
                            Félicitations/Congratulations to Saku Koivu for a great career! Thank you for the memories you gave to our Fans. Bonne chance!  #GHG
                            — Geoff Molson (@GMolsonCHC) September 10, 2014  
                            Congratulations to Saku Koivu on a great career in the NHL as well as internationally. Thank you for being an inspiration to so many!
                            — Ottawa Senators (@Senators) September 10, 2014  
                            Saku Koivu is a hero and a legend. Happy retirement, captain.
                            — Jay Baruchel (@BaruchelNDG) September 10, 2014  
                            Congrats to Saku Koivu on an inspirational career. Proud to have played alongside such a class act, glad to call him a friend.
                            — George Parros (@GeorgeParros) September 10, 2014 
                                View More
                                View Less
                            ×
                            Share this!!
                    The NHL has updated its Privacy Policy effective January 16, 2020. We encourage you to review it carefully.
        The NHL uses cookies, web beacons, and other similar technologies. By using NHL websites or other online services, you consent to the practices described in our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service, including our Cookie Policy.
                                        Hockey Sites
                                                            Network Sites
                                                                AHL
                                                                AIHL
                                                                ECHL
                                                                ELITE (UK)
                                                                SPHL
                                                                USHL
                                                                Aussie Hockey
                                                                NHL Alumni Association
                                                                NHL Officials Association
                                                            Player Sites
                                                                Craig Anderson
                                                                David Backes
                                                                Nicklas Backstrom
                                                                Aleksander Barkov
                                                                Logan Couture
                                                                Duncan Keith
                                                                Anze Kopitar
                                                                Henrik Lundqvist
                                                                Evgeni Malkin
                                                                Brad Marchand
                                                                Anton Stralman
                                                                Alex Steen
                                                                James Wisniewski
                                                                Thomas Vanek
                                                                Pavel Bure (Ret.)
                                                                Mike Fisher (Ret.)
                                                                Jamie Langenbrunner (Ret.)
                                                                Georges Laraque (Ret.)
                                                                Denis Savard (Ret.)
                                                            Community
                                                                Future Goals
                                                                Hockey is for Everyone
                                                                Hockey Fights Cancer
                                                                Learn To Play
                                                                NHL Green
                                                                This Is Hockey
                                                            About
                                                                Shop.NHL.com
                                                                FAQ
                                                                Supported Devices
                                                                NHL Online Transmission Policy
                                                                Jobs
                                                                Contact Us
                                                                Corporate Marketing Partners
                                                                Sponsorship Opportunities
                                            NHL.com Terms of Service
                                            NHL.com Privacy Policy
                                            FAQ
                                            Contact Us
                                            Copyright Policy
                                            Do Not Sell My Info
                                        NHL.com is the official web site of the National Hockey League. NHL, the NHL Shield, the word mark and image of the Stanley Cup, the Stanley Cup Playoffs logo, the Stanley Cup Final logo, Center Ice name and logo, NHL Conference logos, NHL Winter Classic name, and The Biggest Assist Happens Off The Ice are registered trademarks and Stanley Cup Qualifiers name and logo, NHL.TV, Vintage Hockey word mark and logo, The Game Lives Where You Do, NHL Winter Classic logo, NHL Heritage Classic name and logo, NHL Stadium Series name and logo, NHL All-Star logo, NHL Face-Off name and logo, NHL. TV, NHL Premium, NHL After Dark, NHL GameCenter, NHL GameCenter LIVE, NHL Network name and logo, NHL Tonight name and logo, On The Fly, NHL Awards name and logo, NHL Draft name and logo, NHL Mascots, Hockey Fights Cancer, Because It's The Cup, NHL Green name and logo, NHL Vault, Hockey Is For Everyone, NHL Thanksgiving Showdown name and logo, NHL Centennial Classic name and logo, NHL Centennial Season logo, NHL100 Classic name and logo, NHL Global Series name and logo, NHL China Games name and logo, NHL Power Players name and logo, and Don't Miss A Moment are trademarks of the National Hockey League. All NHL logos and marks and NHL team logos and marks depicted herein are the property of the NHL and the respective teams and may not be reproduced without the prior written consent of NHL Enterprises, L.P. © NHL 2019. All Rights Reserved. All NHL team jerseys customized with NHL players' names and numbers are officially licensed by the NHL and the NHLPA. The Zamboni word mark and configuration of the Zamboni ice resurfacing machine are registered trademarks of Frank J. Zamboni &amp; Co., Inc.© Frank J. Zamboni &amp; Co., Inc. 2019. All Rights Reserved. Any other third party trademarks or copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
