https://www.who.int/activities/stopping-attacks-on-health-care
Stopping attacks on health care
Attacks on Health Care initiative: Prevent. Protect. Provide.
Health care is under attack. In 2019 alone, over 1000 confirmed attacks on health care took place in emergency-affected countries and fragile settings. These attacks deprive people of urgently needed care, endanger health care providers, and undermine health systems.
The Attacks on Health Care initiative aims to ensure that health workers everywhere are able to provide health care in a safe and protected environment without disruption from acts of violence. The initiative has three main pillars of work including the systematic collection of evidence of attacks, advocacy for the end of such attacks, and the promotion of good practices for protecting health care from attacks.
Defining attacks on health care
WHO defines an attack on health care as any act of verbal or physical violence or obstruction or threat of violence that interferes with the availability, access and delivery of curative and/or preventive health services during emergencies. Types of attacks vary across contexts and can range from violence with heavy weapons to psychosocial threats and intimidation.
Evidence of attacks
Launched in December 2017, the SSA is the main mechanism for collecting primary source data of attacks on health care in countries. Its methodology allows the verification of incidents of attacks and provides evidence based on a level of certainty for each incident. The resulting information is publicly available through our  online platform.
1009
incidents
of attacks on health care in 2019
199

deaths of health care workers and patients in 2019
628

injured health care workers and patients in 2019
Spotlight
30 July 2020
Attacks on health care in the context of COVID-19
Since the beginning the outbreak, attacks on health care have continuously been reported and now also include incidents linked to the COVID-19 pandemic across the world.  →
Stories from the field
Taking risks to provide care in a conflict zone
Charles Lwanga-Kikwaya is one of many health workers operating in a conflict zone. On New Year’s Day 2019, when most of the world was on holiday, his team was attacked at an Ebola  ...
'It had turned into a ghost hospital': A survivor reflects on the impact of bombing in Yemen
Sadeq Hasan had just started his presentation when the first bomb went off in Hudeydah fish market on August 3.
Caring for others helps Syrian nurse cope with the crisis
Ahmed, 27, is an operating room nurse in a Syrian hospital. Unlike many of the health care workers who have fled the country over the past seven years, he has chosen to stay.
Our work
Surveillance System for Attacks on Health Care (SSA)
The SSA is a global standardized and systematic approach to data of attacks on health care.
Q&A
Attacks on health care initiative
Attacks on health care initiative
Attacks on health care initiative: Documenting the problem
Attacks on health care initiative: Documenting the problem
Attacks on health care initiative: Advocating for change
Attacks on health care initiative: Advocating for change
Preventing & protecting against attacks
Preventing & protecting against attacks
News from countries
WHO humanitarian supplies in Libya intercepted and diverted13 August 2020
    – On 6 August 2020, militia near the town of Al Zawya (western Libya) intercepted a truck on its way to Benghazi and Tobruk to deliver WHO humanitarian supplies.
WHO Director-General praises bravery of health workers during visit to eastern Democratic Republic of Congo following fatal attacks on Ebola responders1 December 2019 – World Health Organization Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus today visited health workers affected by recent armed attacks on Ebola response staff that killed four outbreak responders and injured seven others
    in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Dead and injured following attacks on Ebola responders in the Democratic Republic of the Congo28 November 2019 – Two attacks in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) have killed 4 workers responding to the Ebola outbreak and injured 5 others.
The Ministry of Health and the United Nations condemn attack on health worker supporting the Ebola response in the Democratic Republic of the Congo3
 November 2019 – The violence caused the death of an Ebola response community health worker and left his spouse critically injured with multiple wounds.
WHO statement on attacks against health care in north-west Syria2
 September 2019 – WHO is gravely concerned about reported attacks on 7 health care facilities in the north west of Syria from 28 to 30 August 2019.
Statement by the WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari7
 June 2019 – Incursions into hospitals in Khartoum have resulted in emergency services being shut down, the unwarranted transfer of patients, injuries to five medical staff and patients, and threats to others.
Infographics
Types of reported attacks during the COVID-19 pandemic
It's on us to respect and protect our health care workers, SEARO campaign
What if there was no one to care for you? SEARO campaign
The virus doesn't discriminate, SEARO campaign
Publications
Surveillance system for attacks on health care (‎SSA)
Attacks on health care initiative 2019–2022
In the first three quarters of 2018, the Surveillance System for Attacks on Health Care (SSA)
documented 134 attacks on health care
in Syrian Arab Republic,...
Attacks on health care brochure
Health care is under attack. The sanctity of health care, the right
to health, and International Humanitarian Law are threatened.
Such attacks deprive...
Multimedia
Healthcare workers are at risk
We need health for peace and peace for health
Video statement by Dr Tedros following attacks on Ebola responders in the DR Congo
Related link

Contact
