        Skip to Content
              Permissions
              Logos and Trademarks
              Entertainment and Media
              Sponsorship and Partners
              Products
              Support and FAQ
            Initiative
                Permissions
                Logos and Trademarks
                Entertainment and Media
                Sponsorship and Partners
                Products
                Support and FAQ
      Sponsorships and Partners
      We receive many requests to sponsor worthy events, but we’re not able to provide approval for sponsorships.
      Google Brand Permissions is unable to review and provide approval for any sponsorships. If you’re working with someone at Google, please connect with them to have any sponsorship requests handled.
We do allow Google Certified Partners to use their GCP badge on their marketing materials. And you may also be interested in learning about our co-marketing opportunities and our Partner Marketing Hub.
            Sponsorship logos
            We typically don’t approve the use of the Google logo for events or initiatives we sponsor. If you’re working with us on an event, you may contact the people you’re working with at Google to request an exception to this policy.
            Partnership logos
            If your company qualifies for Partner status in our Google Partner Programs, you may use the Google Partner or Premier Google partner badge on your site and other marketing materials, but we cannot give you permission to use the Google logo. Please use your badges instead.
            Attribution statements
            If you’d like to request permission to use an attribution statement that conveys to users what role Google played in your sponsorship, partnership, or initiative, contact the people you’re working with at Google. The approved statement can be conveyed in plain text or as a graphic element. In most cases, we prefer plain text.For Example:
[Third party] is proud to present [project name] developed with Google Maps.
            Co-marketing
            If you’re interested in co-marketing with Google, you can apply for access to turnkey marketing opportunities, valuable audience insights, and downloadable brand assets on our Partner Marketing Hub. This is where you’ll also find an asset approval form if you’d like our partner brand team to review marketing materials for approval.
  Partner resources
            Google Cloud Partners
            Our global Google Cloud partner network can help you innovate faster, scale smarter, and stay secure.
            Partner Marketing Hub
            Brand guidelines, resources and scalable marketing opportunities. Brands include Android, Google Assistant, Google Play, Google Pay, and more.
          Privacy
          Terms
          About Google
          Google Products
