				The 74
						News
Opinion
Pandemic
Analysis
Videos
Newsfeed
                        Trending Topics
						Coronavirus
EDlection 2020
4Fams
Keeping it 100
The 74 Interview
Union Report
Big Picture
Personalized Learning
						About
Supporters
Jobs
Newsletter
Code of Ethics
                            More from T74
							LA School Report
The Founders
The Alumni
TopSheet
						Contact Us
						Info@the74million.org
						Letters to the Editor
					Newsletter
Jobs
Supporters
About
Contact
The 74’s Code of Ethics
						Follow  us
							©2020 The 74 Media Inc. 
							Terms &amp; Conditions 
							Privacy Policy
						A Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom Interactions
						It’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students Altogether
						All States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at All
						Hipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like Me
						Adams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually Learned
						A School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than Ever
						Porter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the Same
						A Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and Independent
						Steele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their Options
						Integrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of Whiteness
						Students’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity Entrepreneurs
						Hodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’
						Abdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student Exchanges
						Rausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; Wellness
						Collective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can Succeed
						Sharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in Math
						Analysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual Successes
						Adams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just Fine
						4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your Children
						Taheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong
			Next
			Prev
				OpinionJochim &amp; Lavery: Can Teachers Bridge the Divide Between Unions and Charter Schools? Strikes in Chicago and L.A. Are Test CasesBy Ashley Jochim and Lesley Lavery | March 22, 2019
				Educators from the Acero charter school network hold signs as they protest during a strike outside Chicago Public Schools headquarters on December 5, 2018. (Joshua Lott/Getty Images)
					TALKING POINTS.@aejochim &amp; Lavery: Can teachers bridge the divide between unions and charter schools? Strikes in Chicago and L.A. are a major test @CRPE_UW @Macalester.@aejochim &amp; Lavery: District or charter, teachers want the same things — capable administrators, opportunities for influence, fair pay and reasonable working conditions @CRPE_UW @Macalester
					As teacher strikes swept across the country this year, union leaders in many cities painted charter schools as the enemy. But the narrative that pits charter schools against unions largely ignores the fact that district teachers aren’t the only ones walking off the job; charter school teachers in Chicago and Los Angeles went on strike earlier this year, too.
These labor disputes are worth watching. They test whether the unlikely pairing of teachers unions and charter schools can lead to a new model for labor relations in public education — or, instead, will reinforce divisions between the two movements.
Leaders of teachers unions and charter schools have long battled each other. American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten recently said the two camps are locked in a “gladiator fight” over the future of public education.
Our research demonstrates that the reality is more complicated.
We recently interviewed teachers at nine unionized charter schools across the country. They didn’t frame their demands in terms of the larger, protracted conflict playing out between unions and charters. District or charter, teachers want the same things: capable administrators, opportunities for influence, fair pay and reasonable working conditions.
Unionization doesn’t have to undermine the unique missions of charter schools. The labor agreements charter teachers negotiate usually leave room for school leaders to respond to the changing needs of students and staff. To one administrator at a unionized charter school, unionization meant “getting better as a leader and listening to our teachers more deeply … [and not] losing any of our administrative flexibility.”
Collective bargaining in charter schools remains rare. The rate of unionized charters has declined slightly over the past decade, but data from the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools show union organizers making inroads with teachers in some states and localities. In Illinois, for example, the unionization rate had surged to more than 20 percent in the 2016-17 school year from 10 percent in 2009-10. The Chicago Teachers Union now represents educators at more than one-quarter of the city’s charter schools.
Charter school supporters rightly view these efforts with suspicion. The union has opposed charters, including writing a moratorium on charter growth into its contract with Chicago Public Schools.
How this plays out hinges on whether unions and charter school leaders can come together around a shared mission in the service of students.
Teachers striking in Chicago wanted higher salaries and adequate support staff. Administrators argued that the schools must live within their means and cannot afford to meet all the union’s demands.
Both sides have a point. Charter schools cannot support unsustainable financial commitments without risking closure; they cannot raise taxes to increase funding, as districts do. But they can thrive only if their teachers are treated, and paid, like professionals.
What’s the way out of this dilemma? Our research suggests collective bargaining can’t, on its own, address the issues of mistrust that frame labor disputes.
While strikes might increase charter teachers’ leverage over administrators, they don’t provide a foundation for a collaborative working relationship — grounded in a common understanding about available resources and how teachers and administrators can best serve students.
But charter schools — with their small bargaining units and streamlined administrations — are uniquely positioned to establish a new kind of unionization. As leaders at Camino Nuevo, a unionized charter school in Los Angeles, put it recently, “We do not focus on whether we are ‘union’ or ‘administrators.’ We … communicate honestly and transparently with each other to find ways to provide a great education to all of our students.”
Teachers and administrators in unionized charter schools have an opportunity to show that unionization can benefit teachers and kids. But this can’t happen in an antagonistic climate. It depends on labor and management recognizing their shared mission in service of students.
Ashley Jochim is a senior research analyst with the Center on Reinventing Public Education at the University of Washington Bothell. Lesley Lavery is an associate professor of political science at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota.
RelatedSign up for The 74’s newsletter
					TagsChicagoIllinois					
					Submit a Letter to the Editor
				March 22, 2019 Ashley Jochim and Lesley LaveryAshley Jochim is a senior research analyst at the Center on Reinventing Public Education at the University of Washington Bothellcontributors@the74million.orgLesley Lavery is an associate professor of political science at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn.contributors@the74million.org				
				Submit a Letter to the Editor
				TALKING POINTS.@aejochim &amp; Lavery: Can teachers bridge the divide between unions and charter schools? Strikes in Chicago and L.A. are a major test @CRPE_UW @Macalester.@aejochim &amp; Lavery: District or charter, teachers want the same things — capable administrators, opportunities for influence, fair pay and reasonable working conditions @CRPE_UW @Macalester
					Sign Up for the T74 Newsletter
						Submit
				MOST READParents File Lawsuits to Halt School Face Mask Mandates as Districts Impose Health Rules to Slow PandemicWhen the Point of the Pod Is Equity: How Small Grants Are Empowering Parents of Underserved Students to Form Pandemic MicroschoolsYouth Suicide: The Other Public Health CrisisPhoto Tour: What Back to School Looked Like in 16 Countries Around the World, Where Little About the Classroom (or Family Garage) Feels Familiar Amid the PandemicNew Report Estimates School Closures’ Long-Term Impact on the U.S. Economy at More Than $14 TrillionShut Out of Schools Due to Pandemic, Many Education Researchers Say Their Work Is ‘In Shambles’				
					Read Next
					OpinionA Teacher’s View: Remote Teaching Doesn’t Feel Like Teaching. Six Steps Toward Putting the Nuance Back Into Classroom InteractionsOpinionIt’s Not Just About Reopening Schools: It’s Time to Reimagine Education for Latino Students AltogetherOpinionAll States Now Required to Track Students’ College and Career Readiness, but Few Do It Well and Some Not at AllOpinionHipps: Solving for X — We’re Giving Away $10M in Grants for Proposals to Boost Algebra Success for Latino and Black Students, Like MeOpinionAdams: No Test Scores? No Problem — How NYC Can Screen for Admissions Without Exams and Find Out What Students Have Actually LearnedOpinionA School Leader’s View: Our Schools Model End-of-Year Exams on the Way Grad Students Defend Their Academic Theses. Innovations Like This Are Needed Now More Than EverOpinionPorter: 10 States Honor Purple Star Schools That Support the Needs of Military Kids. More States and Districts Should Do the SameOpinionA Teacher’s View: Learning to Become Modern-Day Muckrakers in Their Community Made My Students More Engaged, Excited and IndependentOpinionSteele: Surveys Show Generation Z Seeks Different Education Paths. It’s Time We Showed Them All Their OptionsOpinionIntegrating Schools is Not Just About Student Diversity; It’s About the Power of WhitenessOpinionStudents’ View: How COVID-19 Put Our Consulting Jobs On Hold &amp; Led Us to Become Accidental Equity EntrepreneursOpinionHodas: Like the Dinosaurs, Public Education as We Know It Is Facing a Meteor Moment. We Must Adapt to a New Model Beyond What We Know as ‘School’OpinionAbdel-Kader: Global Learning Should Be a Priority, Especially During a Pandemic. That’s Why We’re Awarding Grants for Virtual Student ExchangesOpinionRausch: To Support COVID Generation, Our Definition of School Quality Must Evolve. New Toolkit Focuses on Student Success &amp; WellnessOpinionCollective Action Can Change Our Schools So Low-Income Children of Color in L.A., and Across the Country, Can SucceedOpinionSharma: Online Testing Is Great. But Traditional Pencil-and-Paper Work Gives Insights That Digital Can’t, Especially in MathOpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual SuccessesOpinionAdams: COVID-19 Learning Loss Will Be Devastating for NYC Students. But the School System Will Come Out Looking Just FineOpinion4 Tips From a Homeschool Mom for Setting Up a Pod That Works for Your ChildrenOpinionTaheri: Giving At-Risk Kids Priority in Lottery for D.C. Charter Schools Can Help Integration and Right a Historic Wrong				
					You might have missed...
					OpinionAnalysis: Time to View a First Language Not as a Barrier but as an Asset for English Learners &amp; Celebrate Their Bilingual Successes				
