    SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexWeek in ReviewToday’s PaperWeek in Review|THE WORLD: Nicaragua; Pushed From Left or Right, Masaya Balkshttps://nyti.ms/29smtRDAdvertisementContinue reading the main storySupported byContinue reading the main storyTHE WORLD: Nicaragua; Pushed From Left or Right, Masaya BalksBy Stephen KinzerFeb. 28, 1988Credit...The New York Times ArchivesSee the article in its original context from February 28, 1988, Section 4, Page 2Buy ReprintsView on timesmachineTimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers.About the ArchiveThis is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions.SANDINISTA army recruiters swept through neighborhoods of Nicaragua's towns and villages in the last month, stopping buses and lying in wait outside cinemas. Sometimes they used force as they rounded up young men for military service, and there were occasional confrontations. But only in the town of Masaya, 19 miles southeast of the capital of Managua, did the conscription spark a full-blown street clash.No one in Nicaragua was surprised that the violence erupted here. Masaya and its Indian quarter, Monimbo, have been symbols of resistance throughout Nicaraguan history. So much so that the anti-draft riots may have been one reason why the Sandinista Government has taken a harder line on dissent in recent weeks, halting what had been a loosening of the political system, required by the Central American peace accord signed in August.Colonial records describe an attack on Masaya authorities in 1811 as the work of ''discontented Indians,'' and citizens are defiant to this day. William Walker, an American adventurer, encountered bloody resistance here in 1856. One of Nicaragua's heroes, Benjamin Zeledon, made his stand in Masaya against the United States Marines in 1912. ''During the independent life of our nation,'' a Nicaraguan history text teaches, ''the city of Masaya has been at the forefront of liberating struggles on behalf of the Republic and public freedom.''Anger at the authoritarian Government of Anastasio Somoza Debayle exploded into riots in Masaya in February 1978, the first outburst in an uprising that toppled the Somoza Government the next year. A plaque in Pedro Joaquin Chamorro Plaza commemorates the event. ''Beginning at that moment,'' it says, ''this place became a center for meetings and agitation for the duration of the national liberation struggle.''Most Nicaraguans attribute the stubborn independence of people in Masaya to their Indian ancestry, noting that resistance has always been centered in Monimbo. Another factor may be that Masaya is a town of artisans, rather than of laborers or farmers. Some of the furniture makers, potters, leather workers, weavers and other crafts workers in Masaya have resisted Sandinista efforts to group them into cooperatives. Under existing rules, most of them receive raw materials through Government agencies, and must sell at least a portion of their goods through Government outlets.Resentments in Masaya boiled over in 1982, when a demonstrator was killed in a clash that followed the Sandinistas' expulsion of three local priests. But from then until this month, there had been no direct challenge here to Sandinista authority.For several weeks before the latest outburst in Masaya, the opposition newspaper, La Prensa, had been reporting isolated protests against the draft. Opposition parties stepped up calls to abolish conscription. Perhaps emboldened by this climate, women rose up to defend their sons against recruiters who arrived in Monimbo on the afternoon of Feb. 8. By nightfall, a violent anti-draft protest was under way. Demonstrators pelted officers with stones and burned at least two vehicles. They were met first by a pro-Sandinista group, and later by the police in riot gear. At least 16 people, including several members of opposition parties, were arrested.The official Sandinista newspaper, Barricada, accused opposition parties and the Central Intelligence Agency of inciting the disturbance. Interior Minister Tomas Borge, who arrived at the scene during the clashes, blamed small groups of ''former prisoners and professional agitators.''Others viewed the episode quite differently, among them Mauricio Diaz Davila, who represents opposition parties on the National Reconciliation Commission charged with monitoring the regional peace accord.''What happened in Masaya has a pre-insurrectional quality,'' he said in an interview two weeks ago. ''It was an outbreak of rebellion by a group of mothers who don't want their sons to be forced into military service.''The draft, imposed in 1984, has become perhaps the most volatile issue in Nicaragua. Despite limited progress toward peace in recent months, the Government appears determined to maintain a large number of men in uniform. ''At this moment,'' Mr. Diaz said, ''the draft is the most vital part of Sandinista defense strategy.'' Recruiting has stopped in Monimbo for the time being, and one recent morning several groups of young men were lounging peacefully on street corners. One group included two army veterans and a 16-year-old friend of theirs who barely escaped the round-up. ''We're always watching who comes onto the street,'' the teen-ager said. ''We keep the doors open so we can run inside and out the back.''One of the veterans said he thought military service should be voluntary. ''Right on our block, they took a bunch of kids away,'' he said. ''You can't be charging into people's houses at night and pulling out people by their hair. It isn't the way to do things.''In a dark room dominated by a pedal-powered sewing machine, an Indian woman said she had lost a brother in the anti-Somoza uprising in 1978 and three cousins who had been drafted into the Sandinista army. ''They are taking kids who don't know anything about war and sending them to fight, and they come back dead,'' she said. ''Some people in Monimbo are waiting for help to make bombs, as we did 10 years ago. Don't forget, this is the barrio that overthrew Somoza.''AdvertisementContinue reading the main storySite IndexSite Information Navigation© 2020 The New York Times CompanyNYTCoContact UsWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions
