            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogHigher EducationOpinionState Policy
                            No College Left Behind?
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
            As I’ve said before, higher education reform increasingly feels like a rerun of the past two decades of K-12 reform—only on a 15 year time delay. In the past few years, President Obama and now Hillary Clinton have issued proposals that would give Washington unprecedented sway over higher ed, and these are gaining traction. It looks increasingly like we’re on the cusp of higher ed’s NCLB moment.
twenty20.com
It’s all brought to the forefront what can happen when impassioned advocates, self-confident federal appointees, and well-meaning legislators try to fix education from Washington. I fear that a Clinton administration will wind up replaying the NCLB soap opera in higher ed, only this time as farce. The prospect prompted me and my former colleague Andrew Kelly (who’s gone off to be a higher ed leader in North Carolina) to pen a lengthy essay on “No College Left Behind?” for the newest issue of National Affairs in which we look at where NCLB went off the rails and what lessons that experience holds for today’s higher ed reformers.
As we note in the introduction to the piece:
In January 2015, [President Obama] announced a plan to provide two years of community-college tuition for free but at a cost to taxpayers of $60 billion over 10 years. It would have been one thing if he had merely proposed spending that money on Pell Grants. But he had something much bigger in mind. Obama proposed that new funds go directly to schools rather than to eligible students as a voucher. Such a change would mark a tectonic shift in higher education. For a half-century, Uncle Sam has empowered low-income college students to choose from a range of offerings—public or private, religious or secular, for-profit or nonprofit. The new plan would funnel federal money directly to one type of public college, taking a first step away from the existing voucher model and toward one that looks more like America’s K-12 system.
Direct funding would also enable a second change: greater federal control over community colleges and states. Indeed, the fact sheet that accompanied the president’s announcement read like a federal reform agenda for community colleges. Participating institutions would be required to “adopt promising and evidence-based institutional reforms to improve student outcomes” (though the administration was vague about just what Washington might require). Participating states would have to “coordinate high schools, community colleges, and four-year institutions to reduce the need for remediation and repeated courses; and allocate a significant portion of funding based on performance.”
Having identified a pressing middle-class concern, Democrats have decided that the best way to fix it is to move America’s mixed-market system of higher education toward a publicly controlled system effectively governed from Washington.
In the piece, we recommend that reformers keep in mind that measuring educational quality is much more difficult than it may first appear, and that tying imperfect measures to punitive consequences can create unfortunate distortions. They should also be nervous about the effects of conscripted federalism, beware the often illusory promise of public accountability, understand that Washington is hard-pressed to “fix” schools or colleges, and remember that “modest” expansions of the federal role rarely stay that way.
As we observe in our conclusion:
Higher education has taken K-12’s place in the hierarchy of federal policy issues—due both to weariness with what well-intended federal efforts have wrought in K-12 and to public concerns about tuition prices and student debt. In other words, 2017 may be to higher education what 2001 was to K-12 policy: a wide open policy window for those pursuing federal reform. . . . NCLB’s unfortunate legacy included moving the center of the nation’s K-12 conversation to Washington—inevitably shifting authority to distant regulators, ideologues, and lawyers. In the age of NCLB, appointment to even a junior post at the Department of Education became a grand prize, a ticket to influence and respect, and a chance for young bureaucrats to give marching orders to state leaders and superintendents. If one deems this the recipe for improving America’s colleges and universities, all well and good. But for those who believe that higher-education improvement is more likely to result from the efforts of educators, communities, and entrepreneurs than from the dictates of officials in Washington, NCLB’s legacy should serve as a cautionary tale.
Anyway, if you’re interested, you can read the whole thing here.
—Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next. 
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated October 3, 2016
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Nevada Supreme Court: Education Savings Accounts Are Constitutional, Funding Mechanism Isn’t
            September 30, 2016
            Next Article
            Pension Incentives and Teacher Retention
            October 4, 2016
We Recommend You Read
		Straight Up Conversation: A Kelley Blue Book for College Costs
		by Frederick Hess
		Straight Up Conversation: New Harvard Ed School Dean Bridget Terry Long
		by Frederick Hess
		Picturing Trump as the School Choice Guy
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
