            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogHigher EducationState Policy
                            In the News: Should a College Diploma Be a Goal for All?
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
            The New York Times published an interesting batch of letters in response to an op-ed by Oren Cass arguing that our education system spends too much money on college students and not enough on other students.
The letter writers offer differing perspectives on whether “college for all” should be the goal of our education system, with some feeling that Oren Cass is too quick to accept the idea that college is not for everyone.
This debate is one that several Education Next authors have dipped their toes into.
Mike Petrilli has written:
Rather than pretend that we’re going to get “all students” to “climb the mountain to college,” we should build a system that helps many students find another road to the middle class—a path that starts with a better prekindergarten-through-eighth-grade education and then develops strong technical and interpersonal skills in high school and at community colleges. 
A blog entry by Andy Smarick warns that:
With so much changing in the world of work, so much excitement about new skills providers, and so much need to get people to work, there’s a danger that state K-12 policymakers could overcorrect and force schools to focus too much on the high school-to-work pipeline.
And Chester E. Finn argues:
College itself is what needs a rethink, both in its own right and as a universal destination for young Americans. 
Please read “Kid, I’m Sorry, but You’re Just Not College Material” by Mike Petrilli; “Balancing College and Career Readiness,” by Andy Smarick; and “College Needs a Rethink,” by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
— Education Next
					Last updated January 3, 2019
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            In the News: Betsy DeVos Revokes Obama Discipline Guidance Designed to Protect Students of Color
            January 2, 2019
            Next Article
            In the News: A New Center Being Born
            January 4, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		College Needs a Rethink
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
		In the News: The Fog of “College Readiness”
		by Education Next
		Who Will Provide Quality Control for Dual Enrollment Courses?
		by Chester E. Finn, Jr.
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
