            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        Ahead of the NewsBlog
                            In the News: Can You Skip 47 Days of English Class and Still Graduate From High School?
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
In Maryland’s largest school district, described in the Washington Post as “one of the nation’s best,” graduation rates are high, but may “reflect policy changes that have made it easier to pass courses, recover from failing grades and be out of class — even though schools routinely say students must attend classes.”
Post reporters Donna St. George and Justin Wm. Moyer uncovered data from one high school in Montgomery County showing that roughly 40 percent of seniors at one high school missed large chunks of instruction last school year, not showing up for some classes 10 to more than 50 times in a semester.
St. George and Moyer write that:
Records from Einstein High provide telling details about what students miss: One senior skipped algebra 36 times last spring. Another racked up 47 unexcused absences in English. Still another was gone for more than half a semester of chemistry.
They say:
School system officials emphasized in interviews that unexcused absences do not directly factor into course grades. That’s part of the system’s “standards-based” approach, which focuses on student learning, not attendance, they said.
While the Montgomery County Public Schools have backed away from punishing students for excessive absences, the district says it is using other strategies to boost attendance.
The issue of chronic absenteeism has been in the spotlight nationwide and most states now use reducing absenteeism as one of their measures of school performance under the Every Student Succeeds Act. School districts are experimenting with different approaches to battling the problem.
One approach that seems not to be working to boost attendance is giving students rewards for high attendance. A study by Todd Rogers and Carly Robinson published earlier this year found that students who received awards for good attendance went on to miss more days of school.
In an article for Education Next, Rogers and Robinson describe the study and look at some more effective ways to combat chronic absenteeism.
– Education Next
					Last updated May 31, 2019
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            In the News: Drowning in Debt From Employee Benefits and Unwilling to Reform, Los Angeles Unified School District Looks for Lifeline in Measure EE
            May 30, 2019
            Next Article
            New American Schools: A Short, Opinionated History
            June 3, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		The Education Exchange: How to Reduce Chronic Absenteeism
		by Education Next
		Education Exchange Replay: How to Reduce Chronic Absenteeism
		by Education Next
		How To Tackle Student Absenteeism
		by Todd Rogers
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
