Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home &gt;
Teacher Resources 
&gt;
Science &gt;
Animals
Teacher Resources
Computers
Countries and Continents
Holidays
English Language Arts 
Math
Monthly Teacher Resource Guide
Science
Social Studies
Crafts
Sites For Teachers
Teacher Glossary
Teacher Jokes
Web Quests
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
 Animals Teacher 
Guide
  Animal 
    Lesson Plans
  Animal 
    Sites
  Animal 
    Worksheets
  It is believed that between nine or ten million animals inhabit the 
    earth. They range in size from just a few small cells to many tons. 
    All animals are heterotrophic. This means that they depend on other 
    living organisms for their food. Most animals ingest food and then 
    digest it in an internal cavity such as the stomach.
  The bodies of animals are made up of cells which are organized into 
    tissues. These cells contain complex structures inside the membranes 
    and is different from that of organisms. The tissues do particular 
    functions and are formed into numerous necessary organs. Animals are 
    grouped into two main categories. They are those with back bones (vertebrates) 
    and those without (invertebrates).
  The Earth is home to many different kinds of animals. Recent studies show that there are 10,000 different bird species alone that roam the world. Did you know that the largest animal alive is the blue whale? There are so many things to learn about the animal kingdom, and that is why we created the ultimate animals teacher guide.
  We offer tons of information on the different animals that are among us including mammals, fish, birds and reptiles. Students will learn to categorize the different animals, and learn how each group of animals function and live. All animals are dependent on others in order to survive. We have several printable lesson plans, worksheets, activities and resources on animals.
  One of the benefits of teaching children about animals is that they learn to care for and appreciate other living things. A dog for example, is much like us humans when it comes to emotions. They get happy, sad, and even scared. Children can relate to these feelings, and when they learn to take care of another living thing, such as a pet, they learn to build up confidence and respect for their pet and other animals.
  Vertebrates
  There are many different species of vertebrate animals. Some of the 
    most common are mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians and fish.
Mammals - You and I fall into this category as well as dogs, cats, 
  horses, cows, pigs, and goats to name just a few of the many animals that 
  are mammals. Mammals are warm blooded which means they regulate their own 
  body temperature. Most animals in the mammal group will have hair or fur 
  and carry their babies in their body until birth. The mammal mother will 
  feed her baby milk from her body. Mammals can live either on land or in 
  the sea. The largest mammal is the blue whale.
Birds - We all recognize birds when we see them. They have wings 
and their bodies have feathers. These feathers will help the bird to fly 
and also keep them warm in cold weather. Their hearts have four chambers 
and they use lungs for breathing. Birds lay eggs which are guarded by the 
parents until the babies are big enough to leave the nest. There are approximately 
10,000 species of birds in the world today.
Reptiles - These cold blooded animals have been on the planet for 
  over 300 million years. Some of the most common reptiles include snakes, 
  lizards, turtles and crocodiles. Most reptiles will lay eggs in a sandy 
  area and when the eggs hatch, a young completely formed reptile will emerge. 
  Other reptiles will keep their eggs inside their body until their baby is 
  born. You can distinguish a reptile by its skin which is usually covered 
  with scales. Amphibians - Amphibians are cold blooded animals that have 
  a dual life. They can exist both on the land and in the water. They are 
  some of the first known animals to exist in the world and the most common 
  would include frogs, toads and salamanders.
Fish - Fish are well known in our world today. They live in the 
water and use gills to breathe. There are fish that live in salty oceans 
as well as fish that make fresh water their home. They are cold blooded 
and are found in all parts of the world.
Invertebrates
Invertebrates differ greatly from back boned animals. This group would 
include mollusks, worms, arthropods, echinoderms and coelenterates.
Mollusks - Mollusks make up one of the biggest groups in the animal 
kingdom. There are more than 100,000 known species. This group is known 
for their shells. They are soft-bodied animals and some of the most common 
are snails, clams and slugs from the sea.
Worms - Worms are amazing little creatures. With their pointed type 
  head, they are able to burrow into the soil while their flat type tail acts 
  as a press to pack the soil. Their small bodies are covered in slime which 
  is used for numerous reasons. It keeps the worm clean, makes the worm slippery 
  and is used as a form of concrete to cement their burrows. Worms have bodies 
  which are made up of many rings.
Arthropods - Arthropods could include spiders, insects, crustaceans, 
scorpions and centipedes. There are over one million species of arthropods 
known to man today. It is amazing to learn that these seemingly innocent 
little creatures are responsible for helping mankind either directly or 
indirectly with medicine, food and clothing. They have also been responsible 
for destroying crops, producing famines and ushering in plagues. It seems 
that we sometimes can't live with these little pests but can't live without 
them either!
Echinoderms - This class of animal includes about 6,000 species 
that call the ocean their home. Starfish, sea cucumbers and sea urchins 
are part of this group. The starfish is an amazing sea creature. Shaped 
like a five pointed star which are a type of arms, the starfish uses these 
to cling to things and to move about the ocean. Echinoderms are equipped 
with simple nervous and circulatory systems.
Coelenterates - These animals also live in the ocean. There are 
  about 9,000 species in this group. Some of the most common are coral, jellyfish 
  and sea-anemone. Many of these are shaped like a cylinder and have a mouth 
  and tentacles coming from one end. If you have ever been to the beach, perhaps 
  you have seen a jellyfish. They resemble an open umbrella and have many 
  hanging tentacles. The coelenterates have an organ with a poisonous sting 
  when disturbed. This is how they capture their prey, pulling them into their 
  grasp with their tentacles.
The word animal comes from the Latin word animal which means "with soul." 
Is it any wonder that we as humans, love animals and try to enjoy them in 
nature as much as possible?
Related Teacher Resources That Are Worth A Look:
Animal Trial
Bird-Watching 
Activities for Kids
Cyber-Starters, 
Farm Animals Workbook
Do 
The Research!: Baby Names
Farm Animals Theme 
Workbook
Guess That 
Animal?
The 
Animals of Spring Lesson Series
The Big Zoo
The Electronic Zoo
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
