        Skip to Content
              Permissions
              Logos and Trademarks
              Entertainment and Media
              Sponsorship and Partners
              Products
              Support and FAQ
            Initiative
                Permissions
                Logos and Trademarks
                Entertainment and Media
                Sponsorship and Partners
                Products
                Support and FAQ
      Products
      You can use unaltered screenshots of our homepage or search results page for instructional purposes.
      You don’t need our permission to use an unaltered screenshot of the Google.com homepage (or the search results page) for instructional or illustrative purposes, as long as you follow the guidelines below. This applies for print and digital formats: books, magazines, journals, newspapers, web pages, DVDs, CDs, etc.
Note that images of our hardware products may not be used without written permission. If you’d like to request permission to use an image of Google hardware, please contact Hardware Brand Permissions.
    Google product screenshots
        You may use unaltered screenshots of the homepage or search results page for instructional or illustrative purposes. “Unaltered” means no superimposed graphics, photos, or ad copy on the screenshot, and no changes to the way our product looks. Screenshots of our search results page may not be used in connection with advertising products or services (for instance, showing a top ranking on Google).
              Acceptable Screenshot
              You may use unaltered screenshots of our homepage that don’t make any changes to the way our product looks.
              Unacceptable screenshot
              Don’t make any changes to our logo, colors, fonts, or the way our homepage looks.
              Acceptable screenshot
              You may use unaltered screenshots of our search results page that don’t make any changes to the way our product looks.
              Unacceptable screenshot
              Don’t make any changes to our layout, fonts, colors, or the way our search results page looks.
      Legal
      We ask that you put the following tagline beneath any image featuring a Google product screenshot or data:
Google and the Google logo are registered trademarks of Google LLC, used with permission.
          Google Maps/Earth
        If you’re considering using Google Maps, Google Earth, or Street View for your project, follow these guidelines for non-commercial use. They spell out how you can and can’t use our mapping tools in everything from marketing and promotional materials, films, television programs, books, academic journals, and much more.
  Other products
            Partner Marketing Hub
            Brand guidelines, resources and scalable marketing opportunities. Brands include Android, Google Assistant, Google Play, Google Pay, and more.
            YouTube
            Guidance and brand use request form for YouTube
            Google Cloud Partner Advantage
            Marketing Resources for Google Cloud
          Privacy
          Terms
          About Google
          Google Products
