            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogCommon CoreOpinionStandards, Testing, and AccountabilityState Policy
                            Can High Standards and Accountability Co-Exist? Lessons From the Common Core Assessment Consortia
                                By Ashley Jochim                                                                                                                            
		Ashley JochimPatrick McGuinn
            The Common Core State Standards Initiative was designed to solve a problem that has plagued past standard-setting efforts. Many states responded to earlier efforts by watering down their standards for learning and lowering expectations for students in an attempt to artificially boost the number of students that reached proficiency. By creating a set of common expectations across states, the designers of the Common Core sought to protect the initiative from the inevitable political pressures that might lead policymakers to weaken the standards or the aligned assessments.
pixabay
However, history may be set to repeat itself. While most states have stood firm in their embrace of the new standards, the number of states planning to use the aligned assessments dropped from 45 in 2011 to 20 by mid-2016.
In a new article in Education Next, we examine why states have abandoned the assessments (designed by the federally funded Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortia (SBAC)  and Partnership for Assessments of Readiness for College and Careers (PARCC)) even as they continue to embrace the standards on which the assessments are based. The answer, in short, is politics. It’s easy for policymakers and the public to embrace high standards in principle. But when policymakers seek to hold students, teachers, and schools accountable for those standards by using the results from aligned assessments, support is far more likely to falter.
The key question for policymakers and other advocates for standards-based reform is whether the politics can be overcome or, at least, mitigated. Three sets of problems define the challenge of aligning expectations for students with accountability for results:
1. Implementation problems and teacher capacity: The new assessments set forth more challenging proficiency benchmarks for students and required substantial investments in technology, as well as increased testing time. Lamenting schools’ preparedness for the transition, one teacher tweeted, “We start testing on standards we’re not teaching with curriculum we don’t have on computers that don’t exist.”
2. Resistance to making standards consequential: When Common Core and the aligned assessments were launched in 2010, states were also busy adopting ambitious new teacher evaluation systems and refashioning the ways in which they held local schools and districts accountable. This resulted in the assessments getting caught up in broader pushback against testing and in charges that students, teachers, and schools were being held accountable for something that had not yet been fully implemented.
3. Failure to engage key stakeholders: The groups that would ultimately experience the reforms—students and their parents or guardians—were often left to learn about the standards and assessments via their social networks, where ill-informed but powerful negative examples circulated through social media. This substantially undermined policymakers’ support for the assessments among key constituencies.
One might take the challenges faced by the consortia-designed assessments as evidence of the impossibility of creating meaningful standards for which educators and students can be held accountable. But our analysis reveals that states can mitigate some of the pushback by anticipating implementation problems and making stakeholder engagement a priority.
States have already begun to adjust their approach to implementation by “pausing” accountability for teachers and schools until the new standards are fully implemented. The consortia too have adjusted their approach, providing states with more flexibility around administration and adjusting the assessments based on feedback from families and teachers.
Many of the states we studied viewed their abandonment of the consortia-designed assessments as the price to pay for saving the standards. Only time will tell if these efforts are too little, too late and whether alternative Common Core assessments will reach the goals set out by the designers of the initiative. Regardless of what happens, the experience provides much fodder from which states and advocates can learn as they continue to push for high standards and accountability for results.
—Ashley Jochim and Paul McGuinn
This post originally appeared on the Lens, the blog of CRPE
					Last updated July 21, 2016
					License this Content
			Ashley JochimAuthor BioPatrick McGuinnAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Don’t Teach Grit. Embed It.
            July 20, 2016
            Next Article
            How Do Teacher Pension Plans Encourage Teachers to Retire? An Explainer
            July 22, 2016
We Recommend You Read
		How the Common Core Changed Standardized Testing
		by Laura Slover
		Which Math Test is Better, PARCC or MCAS?
		by Education Next
		Do New Common Core Test Results Tell Us Anything New?
		by Education Next
                                    Ashley Jochim	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
