https://www.gov.uk/schools-admissions/school-starting-age
Tell us whether you accept cookies
We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK. We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
You’ve accepted all cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
Part of

        Get childcare: step by step
School admissions
Contents
School starting age
Most children start school full-time in the September after they turn 4.
If you do not think your child is ready to start school by then, they can start part-way through the year or part time - as long as they are in full-time education by the time they reach ‘compulsory school age’.
Children born in the summer
Children born between 1 April and 31 August can start the September after they turn 5.
Contact the local council or school to ask for your child to start later. They’ll decide if your child should start in reception year or year 1, based on what’s in the best interests of your child.
Compulsory school age
Your child must start full-time education once they reach compulsory school age. This is on 31 December, 31 March or 31 August following their fifth birthday - whichever comes first. If your child’s fifth birthday is on one of those dates then they reach compulsory school age on that date.
For example, if your child reaches compulsory school age on 31 March, they must start full-time education at the beginning of the next term (summer term that year).
Children must stay in full-time education until they reach school leaving age.
All 3 to 4-year-olds in England are entitled to free early education before they start school full time.
Part of

            Get childcare: step by step
Step 1:




                Find out if you can get help with childcare costs
You can only get help with 'approved childcare'.
and
                  



                Find where you can get childcare
Step 2:




                Get help paying for childcare
You can get help with childcare costs for children under 18. You might be able to apply for:
You could also get free hours childcare when your child is aged 2 to 4. You might be able to apply for:
You can only get childcare vouchers if you have already joined a scheme.
Step 3:




                Check what to do if your circumstances change
Tell government straight away if your circumstances change and you're getting:
If you're getting 30 hours free childcare or Tax-Free Childcare you have to confirm if your details are up to date every 3 months.
Your eligibility for support with childcare costs might also change.
Step 4:




                Check what to do when your child reaches school age
Your child starts primary school the September after they turn 4.
You might be able to use help like tax credits or Tax-Free Childcare to pay for childcare like wraparound care, after school clubs or other activities.
Is this page useful?
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Brexit transition
Services and information
Departments and policy
Support links
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
