https://www.who.int/health-topics/ebola/
Ebola virus disease
Ebola virus disease (EVD), formerly known as Ebola haemorrhagic fever, is a severe, often fatal illness affecting humans and other primates.
The virus is transmitted to people from wild animals (such as fruit bats, porcupines and non-human primates) and then spreads in the human population through direct contact with the blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected people, and with surfaces and materials (e.g. bedding, clothing) contaminated with these fluids.
The average EVD case fatality rate is around 50%. Case fatality rates have varied from 25% to 90% in past outbreaks.
The first EVD outbreaks occurred in remote villages in Central Africa, near tropical rainforests. The 2014–2016 outbreak in West Africa was the largest and most complex Ebola outbreak since the virus was first discovered in 1976. There were more cases and deaths in this outbreak than all others combined. It also spread between countries, starting in Guinea then moving across land borders to Sierra Leone and Liberia.
It is thought that fruit bats of the Pteropodidae family are natural Ebola virus hosts.
The incubation period, that is, the time interval from infection with the virus to onset of symptoms, is from 2 to 21 days. A person infected with Ebola cannot spread the disease until they develop symptoms.
Symptoms of EVD can be sudden and include: fever, fatigue, muscle, pain, headache, and sore throat. This is followed by vomiting, diarrhea, rash, symptoms of impaired kidney and liver function, and in some cases internal and external bleeding (e.g. oozing from the gums, blood in the stools). Laboratory findings include low white blood cell and platelet counts and elevated liver enzymes.
It can be difficult to clinically distinguish EVD from other infectious diseases such as malaria, typhoid fever and meningitis. A range of diagnostic tests have been developed to confirm the presence of the virus.
There is no proven treatment for Ebola but simple interventions early on can significantly improve chances of survival. This includes rehydration with fluids and body salts (given orally or intravenously), and treatment of specific symptoms such as low blood pressure, vomiting, diarrhea and infections.
A range of potential treatments including blood products, immune therapies and drug therapies are currently being evaluated.
Hand hygiene is the most effective way to prevent the spread of the Ebola virus.
An experimental Ebola vaccine known as rVSV-ZEBOV proved highly protective against the deadly virus in a major trial in Guinea in 2015. It is being used in response to the current outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo using a ring vaccination protocol.
During an outbreak, health partners apply a package of interventions including case management, surveillance, contact tracing, laboratory testing, safe burials and community engagement.
Working with communities to reduce risk factors for Ebola transmission is critical to controlling outbreaks.
Previous outbreaks
•  Équateur, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2020
• North Kivu/Ituri, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2018-2020
• Équateur, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2018
• Bas-Uélé, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2017
• West Africa, 2014-2016
News
WHO appoints co-chairs of Independent Commission on sexual misconduct during the Ebola response in North Kivu and Ituri, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Final Statement on the 8th meeting of the International Health Regulations (2005)
10th Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo declared over; vigilance against flare-ups and support for survivors must continue
Facts in pictures
Women are key in Ebola response
Ebola survivors
Ebola survivors need comprehensive support for the medical and psychosocial challenges they face and also to minimize the risk of continued Ebola virus transmission.
Our work
Social science research projects for the Ebola response in the DRC and neighbouring countries
Case management, infection prevention and control
Risk communication and community engagement
Vaccines, therapies and diagnostics
Videos
Six things you need to know about Ebola
WHO: If you can beat Ebola, you can beat anything
WHO Go Training Package
Publications
Ebola virus disease Democratic Republic of Congo: external situation report 98/ 2020

Ebola virus disease Democratic Republic of Congo: external situation report 97/ 2020

Ebola virus disease Democratic Republic of Congo: external situation report 96/ 2020

Ebola virus disease Democratic Republic of Congo: external situation report 95/ 2020

Documents
Ebola or Marburg case investigation and recording sheet

WHO recommended criteria for declaring the end of the Ebola virus disease outbreak
The declaration of the end of an Ebola outbreak is an important celebration for affected communities, national authorities, and responders who have worked...
Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Recommendations for accelerating outbreak control

Interim recommendations for Ebola vaccines

Infographics
Pregnancy and Ebola
Pregnancy care after Ebola
Pregnancy after Ebola
Breastfeeding and Ebola
Respectful care and Ebola
Related health topics
Emergencies
Haemorrhagic fevers, Viral
Vaccines
International Health Regulations
Related links
Disease outbreak news (DONs)
Ebola virus disease
Articles and commentaries
Journal articles, WHO Bulletin editorials, commentaries on Ebola
