            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionSchool ChoiceState PolicyVouchers and Tax Credits
                            Educational Freedom Isn’t a Threat to Democracy
                                By Corey DeAngelis                                                                                                                            
		Corey DeAngelisPatrick J. Wolf
Horace Mann – often called the father of traditional American public schooling – just celebrated his 222nd birthday. While Mann has been gone from this Earth for quite a long time, his thoughts on the intersection between common schools and democratic ideals continue to hold strong today. Because traditional public schools are supposed to teach children how to become proper American citizens, critics of private school choice believe that school vouchers “undermine our democracy.” But recent evidence should curb that concern.
Our just-released study examines the effects of the Milwaukee voucher program on adult voting activity. We use a sophisticated matching procedure – found to replicate experimental results – on student-level data from the most recent longitudinal evaluation of the program to compare voucher students to their traditional public school peers. Each of our analytic models controls for characteristics such as race, grade, gender, baseline math and reading achievement, parent income and education levels, and neighborhood. By the time the students reach 19 to 26 years old, we do not find any evidence that private school voucher students are either less or more likely to vote in the 2012 or 2016 presidential elections than students educated in public schools.
Perhaps the most interesting thing about our study is that the results conflict with conclusions made in a similar study just a few years ago. David Fleming and his colleagues used the same student-level data from the 2006-2012 evaluation of the Milwaukee voucher program and asked students if they would vote in the future. When surveyed, they found that the Milwaukee voucher students were 11-percentage points more likely to report that they would vote in the future than their public school counterparts.
But it turns out that didn’t actually happen. Why not?
There are two plausible explanations for these seemingly contradictory results. First, the Fleming-led study simply asked students if they are going to vote in the future. That survey question could be measuring something other than political participation, namely the democratic skill of knowing what the rest of society expects from you. It also is possible that the initial positive effect of private schooling on the inclination towards political participation fades out by the time students reach 19 to 26 years of age.
Our study largely mirrors the experimental results reported by Carlson, Chingos, and Campbell for the New York School Choice Scholarships Foundation Program: no impacts on voter activity overall or for any subgroups. Likewise, our study does not find evidence to suggest that access to private schooling through a voucher program diminishes the ability of a democratic society to function properly.
For some, a finding that access to private schooling significantly affects voter participation, in either direction, would be cause for concern. If access to religious schools caused an increase in voting activity, there would be much anxiety about how those students ended up voting. If school choice decreased voting activity, concerns about a weakening of civic values would be strengthened. In other words, a null result from a study with a large sample might be the best thing society could want regarding this question. It certainly looks like educational freedom and democracy can coexist after all.
— Corey DeAngelis and Patrick Wolf
Corey A. DeAngelis is an education policy analyst at the Cato Institute’s Center for Educational Freedom. Patrick J. Wolf is a Distinguished Professor of Education Policy and 21st Century Endowed Chair in School Choice in the Department of Education Reform at the University of Arkansas.
					Last updated May 24, 2018
					License this Content
			Corey DeAngelisAuthor BioPatrick J. WolfAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            EdStat: There are Over 500 Medium- and High-Poverty Census Tracts across the Country without Nearby Charter Elementary Schools
            May 23, 2018
            Next Article
            Straight Up Conversation: Prepare U Founder Ryan Beale
            May 25, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Private School Choice Helps Students Avoid Prison and Unplanned Pregnancies
		by Corey DeAngelis
		Some Regulations Deter Private Schools from Participating in Voucher Programs
		by Corey DeAngelis
		Do Voucher Regulations Reduce Anticipated Voucher Program Participation and School Quality?
		by Corey DeAngelis
                                    Corey DeAngelis	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
