https://www.who.int/countries/country-cooperation
WHO Country Cooperation
Cooperation with countries, territories and areas

WHO works with all Member States to support them to achieve the highest standard of health for all people.
WHO has dedicated staff working in 149 country offices. These country teams advise ministries of health and other sectors on public health issues and provide support to plan, implement and monitor health programmes.
We work closely with other United Nations agencies, nongovernmental organizations, foundations, the private sector and affected communities to improve essential prevention, treatment and health care services. WHO country teams also support advocacy and resource mobilization efforts.
WHO acts as a knowledge broker and facilitates exchanges between countries, encouraging them to work together to pursue solutions to common challenges.

Country Strategy and Support
WHO commits to put countries squarely at the centre of our work to ensure that support is relevant, flexible and effective and translates into measurable impact.
The Department of Country Strategy and Support (CSS), based within the Office of the Director-General at WHO’s Headquarters, is responsible for providing clear strategic direction to strengthen WHO’s work in countries. The Department collaborates with departments and offices across the Organization, and with external partners, to identify country needs and priorities and to support them towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
WHO Country Cooperation Strategies and briefs
Publications
WHO presence in countries, territories and areas: 2019 report
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development views health as vital for the future of our world. With a commitment to achieving Goal 3, which calls on all...
WHO country cooperation strategy: guide 2016
The "2016 Country Cooperation Strategy Guide" is a corporate tool developed for WHO staff and national counterparts involved in the development of CCS...
Infographic
Infographic on WHO at work in countries
WHO reform story
UN collaboration

Contact
Department of Country Strategy and Support (CSS)World Health OrganizationGeneva, SwitzerlandEmail:countryfocus@who.int

