https://www.who.int/health-topics/hepatitis
Hepatitis
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver that can cause a
range of health problems and can be fatal. There are five main strains of the
hepatitis virus, referred to as types A, B, C, D and E. While they all cause
liver disease, they differ in important ways including modes of transmission,
severity of the illness, geographical distribution and prevention methods. In
particular, types B and C lead to chronic disease in hundreds of millions of
people and, together, are the most common cause of liver cirrhosis, cancer and viral hepatitis-related deaths.
An estimated 325 million people worldwide live with hepatitis B and/or C, and
for most, testing and treatment remains beyond reach.
Some types of hepatitis are preventable through
vaccination. A WHO study found that an estimated 4.5 million premature deaths
could be prevented in low- and middle-income countries by 2030 through
vaccination, diagnostic tests, medicines and education campaigns. WHO’s global
hepatitis strategy, endorsed by all WHO Member States, aims to reduce new
hepatitis infections by 90% and deaths by 65% between 2016 and 2030.
Many people with hepatitis A, B, C, D or E exhibit only mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. Each form of the virus, however, can cause more severe symptoms. Symptoms of hepatitis A, B and C may include fever, malaise, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal discomfort, dark-coloured urine and jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes). In some cases, the virus can also cause a chronic liver infection that can later develop into cirrhosis (a scarring of the liver) or liver cancer. These patients are at risk of death.
Hepatitis D (HDV) is only found in people already infected with hepatitis B (HBV); however, the dual infection of HBV and HDV can cause a more serious infection and poorer health outcomes, including accelerated progression to cirrhosis. Development of chronic hepatitis D is rare.
Hepatitis E (HEV) begins with mild fever, reduced appetite, nausea and vomiting lasting for a few days. Some persons may also have abdominal pain, itching (without skin lesions), skin rash or joint pain. They may also exhibit jaundice, with dark urine and pale stools, and a slightly enlarged, tender liver (hepatomegaly), or occasionally acute liver failure.
Safe and effective vaccines are available to prevent hepatitis B virus (HBV). This vaccine also prevents the development of hepatitis D virus (HDV) and given at birth strongly reduces transmission risk from mother to child. Chronic hepatitis B infection can be treated with antiviral agents. Treatment can slow the progression of cirrhosis, reduce incidence of liver cancer and improve long term survival. Only a proportion of people with chronic hepatitis B infection will require treatment. A vaccine also exists to prevent infections of hepatitis E (HEV), although it is not currently widely available. There are no specific treatments for HBV and HEV and hospitalization is not usually required. It is advised to avoid unnecessary medications due to the negative effect on liver function caused by these infections.
Hepatitis C (HCV) can cause both acute and chronic infection. Some people recover on their own, while others develop a life-threatening infection or further complications, including cirrhosis or cancer. There is no vaccine for hepatitis C. Antiviral medicines can cure more than 95% of persons with hepatitis C infection, thereby reducing the risk of death from cirrhosis and liver cancer, but access to diagnosis and treatment remains low.
Hepatitis A virus (HAV) is most common is low- and middle-income countries due to reduced access to clean and reliable water sources and the increased risk of contaminated food. A safe and effective vaccine is available to prevent hepatitis A. Most HAV infections are mild, with the majority of people recovering fully and developing immunity to further infection. However, these infections can also rarely be severe and life threatening due to the risk of liver failure.
325 million
people globally
live with a hepatitis infection
News
WHO-commissioned global systematic review finds high HCV prevalence and incidence among men who have sex with men
Strategic exchange with representatives from civil society and communities
World Hepatitis Day: fast-tracking the elimination of hepatitis B among mothers and children
UNODC, WHO, UNAIDS and OHCHR joint statement on COVID-19 in prisons and other closed settings
Publications
Training Modules on Hepatitis B and C Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment
Trainers Module
Prevention of mother-to-child transmission of hepatitis B virus: Guidelines on antiviral prophylaxis...
WHO estimates that in 2015, 257 million people were living with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection worldwide, and that 900 000 had died from HBV...
Prevention of mother-to-child transmission of hepatitis B virus: guidelines on antiviral prophylaxis...
WHO estimates that in 2015, 257 million people were living with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection worldwide, and that 900 000 died from HBV infection,...
Molecular diagnostics integration global meeting report
Despite major progress in the global HIV and tuberculosis (TB) responses over the past 15 years, both diseases continue to be a public health burden in...
Meeting reports
Analysis and use of health facility data: guidance for hepatitis programme managers
Analysis and use of health facility data: guidance for hepatitis programme managers
Position paper -  Polio vaccines and polio Immunization
Position paper -  Polio vaccines and polio Immunization
Position paper -  Hepatitis B 
Position paper -  Hepatitis B
Position paper -  Hepatitis A
Position paper -  Hepatitis A
Journal articles
Systematic review and meta-analysis of the prevalence and incidence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in men who have sex with men (MSM)  - The
    Lancet Gastroenterology & Hepatology, 17 November 2020
The global prevalence of hepatitis D virus infection: systematic review and meta-analysis - Journal of Hepatology, April 2020
Injection practices in 2011–2015: a review using data from the demographic and health surveys (DHS) - Journal article
    published in BMC Health Services Research, August 2019
Events
WHO Strategic and Technical Advisory Committee on HIV and viral hepatitis and STI partners
Strategic exchange with representatives from civil society and communities
Campaign
High-level Global Talk Show: Towards a “Hepatitis-free future”
World Hepatitis Day 2020
Videos
Towards a hepatitis-free future
WHO: Invest in eliminating hepatitis
WHO Progress report on HIV, hepatitis, STIs 2019
World Hepatitis Day: message from WHO Director-General
Infographics
World Hepatitis Day 2020
World Hepatitis Day
Viral hepatitis in the world
About hepatitis
Speeches
WHO Director-General's opening remarks on World Hepatitis Day - 28 July 2020
Launch of National Hepatitis Strategic Framework
Feature stories
Welcome to 2020 – the decade for disease elimination
What cure means - story of people cured of HCV
Commentaries
Ending the epidemics of high-impact communicable diseases
Vaccines: the powerful innovations bringing WHO’s mission to life every day
Related topics
HIV/AIDS
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
Vaccines and immunization
Universal Health Coverage
Contact
WHO - Global Hepatitis ProgrammeEmail: hepatitis@who.int
