Shape 3Shape
Skip to Content
  Menu
      About
      Leadership
      Culture
      Careers
          See All Job Openings
        Alert: Fake Job Scam
Visit our job board to view current openings across all of our brands.
                Overview
        Atlantic Media attracts the most extraordinary individuals, who are looking to boldly disrupt and relentlessly innovate in a fast-paced and rewarding digital media environment. We seek humble and dynamic talent looking to join a collaborative environment that provides a wealth of opportunities for career development
and growth.
Chairman’s Statement on Diversity
First published in 1857, the Atlantic Monthly, was founded, in part, to weigh in on the great debate of that century – to editorialize that all men are created equal and free. In our editorial work today, but also in our internal practice, we are to honor and build on that work. At The Atlantic, and throughout Atlantic Media.
Within Atlantic Media ranks, everyone – across race, gender, class, and faith – belongs. We expressly intend that our staff be as varied as the country and world we serve. And, for those who are here, our intention and plan is that everyone feels welcome, supported, lifted and advanced. We believe that our work, as well as our culture, are better for this commitment.
– David G. Bradley
          Benefits
    Health Benefits
              Multiple Medical Plan Options
              Prescription Drug Coverage
              Domestic Partner Coverage
              Dental Insurance
              Vision Insurance
              Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
    Financial Benefits
              401(k) with Employer Match &amp; 100% Vesting from Day One
              Medical &amp; Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA)
              Short &amp; Long-Term Disability Plans
              Life and AD&amp;D Insurance
              Supplemental Life and AD&amp;D Insurance
              Long-Term Care Insurance
              Business Travel Accident Insurance
    Life Benefits
              Vacation, Sick &amp; Parental Leave
              Company Holidays
              Corporate Volunteer Programs
              Gym Memberships
              Emergency Travel Services
              Tuition Reimbursement
              Adoption Assistance Program
              Parking &amp; Commuter Programs
        Privacy
        Privacy Notice for California Candidates
        Sign up for The Idea, Atlantic Media’s weekly newsletter on media trends.
        The Atlantic marketing department holds a brainstorming session in New York.
        Volunteers create Valentine’s Day cards for the Children’s National Medical Center.
        Local high school students, through a Mentor Foundation program, learn about the media business during a “career experience” day
    The Atlantic
      Illustration by Katie Martin; images from Kean Collection / Getty;…
      8 hours ago
    National Journal
      Tillis and his allies have reframed the final weeks of…
      2 days ago
    The Atlantic
      One of the most striking qualities about the poetry of…
      8 hours ago
    The Atlantic
      In normal times, when a serious crime occurs and a…
      9 hours ago
    The Atlantic
      Many Americans remember the 1950s as a banal time of…
      9 hours ago
  Atlantic Media Proprietary Insight
  Opinion leaders drive the conversation online. They are four times as likely to share online articles via e-mail than the general population.
    The Atlantic
      President Donald Trump is supposedly a billionaire, but the $750…
      9 hours ago
    The Atlantic
      Taiwan is one of those flash points that has never…
      10 hours ago
    The Atlantic
      Every weekday evening, our editors guide you through the biggest…
      20 hours ago
    The Atlantic
      “We’re not a democracy,” Republican Senator Mike Lee tweeted in…
      1 day ago
    Twitter
    RT @prashantrao: “I don’t see that the opportunity for the discussions, the engagement, between the two sides will come in the near future,…
    37 mins ago from @TheAtlantic
        Headquarters
          The Watergate
        600 New Hampshire Avenue, NW
        Washington,
        DC
        20037
          Phone: 202-266-7000
          Fax: 202-266-6001
        The Atlantic
        60 Madison Avenue
          8th Floor
        New York,
        NY
        10010
      © 2020 Atlantic Media, all rights reserved
          Privacy Policy
          Terms and Conditions
