      Jump to content
                Enjoy a CovidSafe visit to the National Library. Read more...
            Close alert
        National Library of Australia
nav#main-menu ul.links, .om-maximenu-content h3 {
  display: none !important;
}
#navigation {
  line-height: 1.2em;
}
#navigation .om-maximenu .om-maximenu-content {
  padding-bottom: 12px;
}
    Collections      
  Collections menu    
  What we collectRecent acquisition highlights
Archived websites
Asian
Dance
Ephemera
Indigenous
Manuscripts
Maps
Music
Newspapers
Oral history and folklore
Pacific
Pictures
Preserving our collections
Building our collectionsCollecting multicultural Australia
Acquisitions wish list
Selected Library collections
Collection statistics
History of the collection
Processing and describing our collections
      Stay-->
    Using the Library      
  Using the library    
  Getting startedAsk a Librarian
Get a Library card
Getting started videos
Frequently asked questions
Research tools and resourcesFamily history research
Research guides
Published guides and bibliographies
Private researchers and valuers
Australian Joint Copying Project
LearningDigital Classroom
Learning sessions
School and teacher programs
Reading roomsUsing the reading rooms
Main Reading Room
Special Collections Reading Room
Petherick Reading Room
Copies and interlibrary loansCopies and interlibrary loans for individuals
Copies and interlibrary loans for libraries
Supply1 for libraries
Copyright in library collections
Services for publishersLegal deposit
Prepublication Data Service
ISBN
ISMN
ISSN
Services for librariesLibraries Australia
NSLA eResources
Australian Libraries Gateway
Australian Interlibrary Resource Sharing (ILRS)
      Stay-->
    Stories      
  stories menu block    
  Newsletter
Media centre
Video
Blogs
Podcasts
Unbound Magazine
News
NLA Publishing
      Stay-->
    What's on    
    Visit      
  Visit us    
  Opening hours
Getting to the Library
Bookplate and Paperplate cafes
Bookshop
Venue hire
Facilities and access
      Stay-->
    About us      
  About us    
  Who we are
Jobs at the Library
Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants
Corporate documents
Tenders
Our building
Social media
      Stay-->
    Support us      
  Support us    
  Give to the 2020 appeal
Make a bequest
Our patrons
Friends of the Library
Volunteer
Support fellowships and scholarships
      Stay-->
            You are hereHome      
                    Trove's volunteers
  Trove's volunteers
  Learn what motivates some of our top text correctors
           Jess Drake    
  15 May 2014
  Share: Facebook Twitter 
  This week Australia is celebrating National Volunteer Week. According to Volunteering Australia, every day over six million Aussies give up some of their time. There are all sorts of ways that volunteers contribute to our community. Dedicated 'Troveites' help make our history searchable by editing the electronically translated text in Trove’s digitised newspapers. As you’ll see, our text correctors are inspired by the newspapers and motivated by a desire to help.
Thousands of volunteers have helped correct more than 120 million lines of text in Trove! Since the beginning of 2011, the number of lines of text corrected each month has been over two million. You can see these statistics and more on the Trove statistics page. 
Wanting to find out what keeps Troveites motivated, I sent some questions to a small group of high profile text correctors. 
These are the top five text correctors for Trove. You can see more in our Hall of Fame. 
How did you first discover Trove?
Word of mouth brought many of them to Trove for the first time. Others found it through searching. NeilHamilton heard of Trove thanks to an ABC television program.
What attracted you to correcting text?
annmanley believes in a bit of karma. If she corrects something in Trove that might be of use to someone, then someone somewhere else might have corrected something of use to her. noelwoodhouse likes to ensure names are correct so they can be found in searches, while NeilHamilton says it’s great contributing to a national resource (and it’s also addictive!). As Catessa puts it, 'It is no use having the information online if it cannot be found'. 
JohnWarren says he only really does births, deaths and marriages (BDM), and lately more specifically wedding and obituary articles. As Trove’s current number one text corrector with over 2.5 million lines of text corrections under his belt, JohnWarren has contributed a great deal. In the early days he’d select a paper at random and then correct all the relevant articles, such as over 5000 funeral notices for the Barrier Miner. These days he’s concentrating on the newspapers of central western NSW as he is 'an old Orange boy'. 
Catessa started out correcting things for work, and then for some family history. But when the Süd Australische Zeitung was digitised, her focus shifted to that: 'As I appear to be the only person in Australia both able and willing to interpret the Fraktur type [of the newspaper] and the 19th century spelling of German, I stick mostly with this. Either I do it, or it does not get done.'
The husband and wife team of maurielyn have corrected across a wide range of subjects, as well as lots of serialised novels and short stories by Australian, English and American authors.
Thankfully correcting text in Trove is a bit easier these days. [http://nla.gov.au/nla.pic-an23220197]
How do you choose what to correct?
NeilHamilton chose to focus on the Canberra Times in 2011 as the centenary celebrations were looming. He says it was 'an ideal time to research the early history of the city and at the same time edit the articles I was reading'. 
noelwoodhouse concentrates on the Rockhampton Bulletin as he has lived in Rockhampton all his life. He is working chronologically through the papers of his lifetime and corrects mostly family notices, social notes, and music examination, Eisteddfod and school examination results, as well as any article containing names of local people. Other types of articles that interest him include those relating to the history of Rockhampton and the lead up of World War II. He also likes to learn about what went on when he was a boy and too young to remember events.
 PenrithLibraryVolunteers is a Trove account for volunteers of Penrith City Library who correct text from the Nepean Times to make it accessible to local family historians. Volunteers from the library had been working on indexing the Nepean Times before the digitised version appeared on Trove, so one of the librarians trained the volunteers to undertake text correction. One volunteer has been focusing on the war years and spent all of 2013 working on papers from 1914. They’re now up to 1915. Another volunteer is working on the obituaries and family notices, while another is working on Council meetings for the years where they don’t have the original minutes. 
annmanley often searches for family notices which have been included in the advertising part of Trove’s newspapers, and tags them so they are easier to find. Other things of interest include shipwrecks and shark attacks.
Text correcting may seem a little daunting in the beginning but it soon will become a favourite pastime. [http://nla.gov.au/nla.pic-vn6334653]
Why have you kept correcting?
NeilHamilton finds text correcting very informative as well as enjoyable, and hopes that his editing is helping other people’s research or to find their Canberra family history. Likewise, noelwoodhouse continues to text correct because he thoroughly enjoys it and hopes that it will keep him occupied for many years to come. Catessa jokes, 'Maybe I am an obsessive neurotic. That would help'.
JohnWarren keeps editing to help others find births, deaths and marriages. Lately he has been adding links to Trove articles from Ancestry records, and garnering favourable feedback. annmanley keeps correcting because there’s always more to find, particularly when regional papers of interest are digitised and added to Trove.  
As mentioned before, maurielyn focus on novels and short stories. They keep correcting because a lot of these stories are out of print and the stories and authors are mostly unknown to current readers. Once they have corrected a story, they download the corrected text, set it up in a suitable format and send it to Project Gutenberg Australia where they are available to download for free. To date they have sent over 250 novels and stories to Project Gutenberg. 
The left image shows the electronically translated text, complete with errors; the middle image shows the process of line by line text correction; and the image on the right shows the final corrected text. 
What’s your favourite Trove item?
PenrithLibraryVolunteers don’t have a favourite article, however they love the social aspect of the Nepean Times; the concerts, reminiscences of the early days, marriages, births, disease and death, businesses and of course the weather! noelwoodhouse doesn’t have a favourite Trove article either, but is very grateful that Trove was created and wishes it went further than 1954. This is a common wish of Trove users, however copyright restrictions make it difficult to go beyond 1954 without special permission.
Catessa also doesn’t have a favourite article, but likes reading about what people thought was happening at the time, and the trivia of everyday life which often doesn’t make its way into history. JohnWarren’s favourite article is a Goulburn obituary for Monty the police tracker.
Do you want to join in?
If you would like to join in on the text correction fun, go right ahead. You can register with Trove, or correct anonymously. Not sure where to start? There’s some suggestions on how to find articles to correct on the Trove forum. There’s also some information about correcting text in our help pages as well as some draft text correction guidelines that will help you get started. 
---
This post appears in our "Trove" blogs. To subscribe to future blogposts in this blog add http://www.nla.gov.au/blogs/trove to your RSS reader. To subscribe to all National Library blogposts, use http://www.nla.gov.au/blogs. 
            Liz scammell replied on Mon, 19/05/2014 - 08:58      Permalink    
  Comment: Is there a trove Facebook page?
  Log in to post comments
            Jess Drake replied on Mon, 19/05/2014 - 11:08      Permalink    
  Comment: Hi Liz. Not yet, but I'm working on it! 
  Log in to post comments
            esykes replied on Tue, 19/04/2016 - 13:42      Permalink    
  Comment: Here it is! https://www.facebook.com/TroveAustralia
  Log in to post comments
            Ros Loveday replied on Fri, 20/04/2018 - 17:06      Permalink    
  Comment: I would like to be a volunteer corrector.  I am a retired senior English teacher.
  Log in to post comments
  Read our comment moderation statement
          Australia’s collections online    
  Newsletter
Media centre
Video
Blogs
Podcasts
Unbound Magazine
News
NLA Publishing
        Acknowledgement of Country
  The National Library of Australia (NLA) acknowledges Australia’s First Nations Peoples – the First Australians – as the Traditional Owners and Custodians of this land and gives respect to the Elders – past and present – and through them to all Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
  Contact us
+61 (0)2 6262 1111Parkes PlaceCanberra ACT 2600AustraliaOpening hoursMore contact information
  Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr YouTube More connections
  QuicklinksJobs at the LibraryAwards and grantsCopies DirectLibraries AustraliaWebsites A–Z
Feedback
Privacy
Copyright
Accessibility
Catalogue
Trove
eResources
