https://www.who.int/emergencies/funding
Funding for emergencies
Section navigation
We face both daily risks such as operating health programmes in the midst of war zones and organizational hurdles, such as securing long-term funding.
Climate change, increasing urbanization, globalization and intensification of civil conflicts are increasing the frequency and severity of emergencies with health consequences. An outbreak of even a limited number of cases can spark high levels of concern and response activity, while large-scale emergencies cause widespread death and suffering. Irrespective of the hazard, emergencies disproportionately affect the poorest and most vulnerable people. The resulting economic cost averages over US$ 100 billion per year.
We face both daily risks such as operating health programmes in the midst of war zones and organizational hurdles, such as securing long-term funding.
The appropriate and timely management of risk requires effective national and international capacities and collaboration. Working more closely with partners is essential: WHO cannot deliver results alone.
The vast majority of health emergencies and disease outbreaks with high morbidity and mortality occur in less developed countries with limited capacity to prepare for and respond effectively to emergencies. Everything the WHO Health Emergencies Programme does must contribute to the delivery of better results at the country level. To prevent, detect and respond to emergencies, the Programme focuses on building country capacity with the requisite support from national, regional and global partners.
WHO thanks all of the contributors that provide funding or in-kind contribution for WHO’s work for emergencies.
Humanitarian Response Plans
Humanitarian Response Plans are based on rigorous assessment and analysis of need in identified countries. The plans include an overview of the situation, WHO’s objectives to address the health aspects of the crisis, and the funds that will be required to do so. They form part of the overall humanitarian response plans developed by partners in the wider humanitarian response.
Central Emergency Response Fund
The Central Emergency Response Fund is one of the fastest and most effective ways to ensure that urgently needed humanitarian assistance reaches people caught up in crises. Established by the United Nations General Assembly in 2005 as the United Nations global emergency response fund, CERF enables humanitarian responders to deliver life-saving assistance whenever and wherever crises strike.
WHO Programme Budget
WHO's Programme Budget Portal, provides details of the Organization’s work, financing and implementation progress. With quarterly updates the portal presents a better breakdown of our work, navigating through the different categories, programmes and outputs through which WHO’s work is delivered. Countries now specify the financial details at output level in order to meet WHO’s requirement for IATI compliance.
Contingency Fund for Emergencies
The Contingency Fund for Emergencies (CFE) allows WHO to respond rapidly to disease outbreaks and health emergencies--often in 24 hours or less. This saves lives and helps prevent unnecessary suffering. Furthermore, a quick response dramatically reduces the costs of controlling outbreaks and emergencies, as well as the wider social and economic impacts. The CFE is not earmarked, giving WHO the crucial flexibility, it needs to act quickly in response to disease outbreaks, natural disasters, and humanitarian emergencies.
WHO planning, finance and accountability
13th General Programme of Work 2019-2023
WHO has the potential to dramatically improve the health of our world over the coming five years. The purpose of this thirteenth general programme of work is to seize this opportunity.
Investing for a healthier future
WHO is working to attract a  wider donor base, more flexible funding and increased overall funding for a well-resourced WHO that drives global health leadership.
Programmatic and financial reports
The WHO Programmatic and Financial report combines financial reporting and audited statements" together with programmatic reporting.
Working for better health
Working with 194 Member States, across six regions, and from more than 150 offices, WHO staff are united in a shared commitment to achieve better health for everyone, everywhere.
Ebola response funding
