            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogCurriculumOpinionState Policy
                            A Cage-Busting Curriculum for Teachers
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
Last week, new Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos stirred up a kerfuffle when, after a visit to Washington DC’s Jefferson Middle School Academy, she said that the teachers seemed to be in “receive mode.” DeVos told a columnist for Townhall, “They’re waiting to be told what they have to do, and that’s not going to bring success to an individual child. You have to have teachers who are empowered to facilitate great teaching.” DeVos has since clarified that she meant to say it’s a problem that so many teachers feel hamstrung by rules, regulations, and bureaucracy. And you know what? That is exactly right. DeVos’s phrasing was unhelpful, and it’s a problem that she framed the remark as the product of a single school visit, but the contretemps shouldn’t obscure the larger point.
As I began The Cage-Busting Teacher a couple of years ago:
Over the years, I’ve seen accomplished teachers take pride in doing things the hard way. They talk of working late, planning intricate trips, and writing a slew of micro-grants. They’re changing lives, there’s no doubt about that. But they’re doing it on their own, because most see their schools and systems as, at best, harmless, and, at worst, as obstacles that drain their time and energy.
Teachers have responded by taking refuge in their classrooms. They seek to excel despite the schools and systems they inhabit. The best do it on their own time and their own dime, seemingly accepting that as their lot in life. I don’t think they should and I don’t think they need to. This is a book for those who agree.
Since Cage-Busting came out, loads of teachers have shared similar frustrations. Bitter fights over things like teacher evaluation reform and testing have only worsened divides between practitioners and policymakers. But I’ve also met scores of practitioners who have learned to navigate bureaucracy and the shoals of policy in order to make schools and systems more supportive of their work. And there’s been a steady proliferation of teacher groups that strive to help educators figure all this out.
A big challenge on this score is that there just isn’t much material or training out there on how to make schools and systems work for teachers. As I discuss in Cage-Busting, the most popular authors, books, and articles focus on classroom skills. Even when they’re useful, teacher preparation and professional development are mostly about instructional strategies, pedagogical techniques, instructor attitudes, and how to use data. Meanwhile, teachers only spend a few hours a week around other adults. When exactly do we expect teachers to learn the ins and outs of organizational behavior or how to change them? Because teacher training and PD don’t focus on dealing with system frustrations, neither does most of what gets written and created to support teacher training.
That was what prompted me to write The Cage-Busting Teacher in the first place. And it’s been nice to see that so many folks have found it useful. But it’s also true that most teacher preparation programs don’t have courses in how teachers enhance their authority or manage up. Most PD doesn’t address how teachers should talk to their principal, identify frustrating school routines, propose workable solutions, or build relationships with policymakers. And not every teacher has access to a network like those offered by the Hope Street Group, TeachPlus, Educators for Excellence, NNSTOY, or the rest.
So, hoping to make it easier for isolated practitioners or instructional coaches to tackle all of this, this Thursday I’m publishing the “Cage-Busting Curriculum”—a free online resource that’s intended to help educators master the ideas and tools presented in The Cage-Busting Teacher. The curriculum is organized in seven modules that walk readers through the key concepts in the book and offer opportunities to apply them. If you’re interested in learning more, join us at 4:00 pm this Thursday, February 23, virtually or at AEI.
As a guy who mostly writes about “policy” and “leadership,” I’m the first to admit that this stuff can feel pretty far removed from the critical work that happens every day in classrooms. That’s a problem. It causes policymakers and system leaders to underestimate the distance between ambitious plans and their practical impact. And it can make educators feel powerless and like nobody cares what they think. The insight behind cage-busting is that we’re all much, much better off when there is a healthy partnership between talkers and doers. My hope is that this curriculum can help narrow the divide, if only a bit.
—Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next. 
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated February 22, 2017
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Don’t Forget Private, Non-Profit Colleges
            February 21, 2017
            Next Article
            Time to Roll Back Obama’s Misguided Discipline Guidance
            February 23, 2017
We Recommend You Read
		Straight Up Conversation: 2017 National History Teacher of the Year Sara Ziemnik
		by Frederick Hess
		Straight Up Conversation: Math Guru Richard Rusczyk
		by Frederick Hess
		Top Charter Networks Turning Attention to Curriculum
		by Michael J. Petrilli
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
