https://www.who.int/emergencies/partners
Partners and networks
Section navigation
The world is dealing with emergencies of unprecedented scale. 130 million people need humanitarian assistance worldwide. No organization can do it alone. The World Health Organization (WHO) works on health emergencies of all kinds ranging from disease outbreaks to conflicts to natural disasters.
In all instances, WHO relies on partners through networks, such as the Global Health Cluster, Standby Partners, Emergency Medical Teams and the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network.
WHO also works closely with Member States, international partners, and local institutions to help communities prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from emergencies, disasters and crises.
We are committed to:
Featured
Global Health Cluster
Effective response to the world’s health crises would be impossible without the coordinated teamwork of the Global Health Cluster. Over 900 partners combine their technical and operational abilities to support the national health response in crisis-affected countries to ensure that people in need receive essential health care.
Standby Partnerships
In emergencies, extra personnel must quickly be in place to support WHO’s work. 

Through Standby Partners, WHO rapidly mobilizes qualified and experienced professionals to respond to the health consequences of acute and protracted emergencies and disease outbreaks.
Emergency medical teams
In cooperation with the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and with host-country health ministries, WHO helps to select and guide the work of emergency medical teams providing clinical care in the wake of emergencies.
Global Outbreak Alert & Response Network
During public health emergencies, the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN) ensures that the right technical expertise and skills are on the ground where and when they are needed most.
Partner types
Networks
Groups
Response
Inter-agency
Academic and research
More
Non-governmental
More
