            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionSchool ChoiceState Policy
                            Is Media Coverage of School Choice Biased?
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
When you’ve been around the school choice debate as long as I have, you can’t avoid the claims that the media plays favorites. Given my own sense that media coverage of schooling tilts to the faddish, progressive, and sensational, I find such concerns easy to credit. But, especially with the attention showered upon all things school choice in the Trump-DeVos era, it seems a question worth looking into.
So, a few weeks back, two of my terrific research assistants (Brendan Bell and RJ Martin) and I decided to take a look at this in Real Clear Education. We identified five pairs of studies that were largely identical—aside from the results. Both studies in each pair measured the same outcomes, used the same basic methodology, and were either conducted by the same researchers or else conducted in the same locale. The only meaningful difference in each pair was the result.
The question: When reporting on otherwise similar studies, does the media pay more attention to those that are more or less positive about school choice?
Before we get to that, here’s a quick sketch of the five pairs of studies:
• In 2009, Stanford University’s CREDO used longitudinal student-level data to analyze charter schools nationwide and found results that leaned negative when it came to reading and math. In 2013, they repeated the study and found much more positive results.
• In 2008, Patrick Wolf and several colleagues evaluated Washington DC’s Opportunity Scholarship Program. At the two year mark, they found no significant achievement effects for students who were offered vouchers, but their third-year results found voucher recipients making outsized reading gains.
• Northwestern’s David Figlio, in 2014, examined Florida’s private school choice scholarship program and found no significant impact on reading or math. In 2016, he analyzed Ohio’s voucher program, and found a negative impact on reading and math performance for voucher recipients.
• In 2016, Atila Abdulkadiroglu and colleagues studied the Louisiana Scholarship Program one year after implementation, finding that voucher recipients had lower academic achievement. In 2017, Patrick Wolf and Jonathan Mills used the same methodology to re-examine the program at the three-year mark, and found that the earlier losses had essentially vanished.
• Finally, in 2015, Carnegie Mellon’s Dennis Epple and colleagues conducted an international literature review and found that vouchers had no consistent effects on student achievement. In 2016, Danish Shakeel and colleagues analyzed 19 international randomized controlled trials of school vouchers, finding that vouchers tended to raise both reading and math scores.
We tallied the number of major media news stories and editorials in leading outlets that mentioned each of the studies. We examined coverage in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, and The Economist.
The bottom line: News stories in these outlets played no favorites when covering school choice research. Thirteen news stories cited a “positive” study and 15 referenced a “negative” study. While some studies received much more attention than others, coverage was relatively balanced within each pair and across the various outlets.
So, the major media appears to have done an admirably impartial job when reporting on rigorous research in the contested field of school choice.
While the news coverage didn’t play favorites when it came to research, the editorial pages were another story. Editorials and op-eds cited “negative” school choice studies twice as often as they did “positive” studies, with 36 mentions of “negative” studies compared to just 18 of “positive” studies. The 2-to-1 ratio of negative-to-positive was consistent across newspaper editorials and the op-eds they published.
Given this lean, and the interesting fact that the editorial sections of these papers were about twice as likely to cite school choice research in their opinion pages as in news stories (54 mentions to 28), it’s easy to see why school choice advocates might regard the mainstream media as anything but impartial.
Look, editorial sections have every right to take whatever position they will. And news reporters don’t control the editorial voices. That said, when the editorial pages of the nation’s leading newspapers show a collective tilt in how they treat research—and when they talk more about the research than the news pages do—a simple query as to the existence of “media bias” gets more complicated than one might expect.
— Frederick Hess
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated May 16, 2018
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Democracy Prep Schools Boost Civic Engagement
            May 15, 2018
            Next Article
            Can High School Be Fixed?
            May 17, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Secretary DeVos’ Harvard Speech on School Choice
		by Frederick Hess
		Making Sense of the Lousy Test Results in Louisiana’s Voucher Program
		by Frederick Hess
		School Choices for Rural America
					School choice leaves many small town denizens and suburbanites cold. So here's an idea for what rural school reform should look like.
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
