            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinionState PolicyTeachers and Teaching
                            A Missing Key Ingredient for Widespread Personalization: Innovative School Staffing
                                By Bryan Hassel                                                                                                                            
		Bryan HasselEmily Ayscue Hassel
            Kelly Pollack, who co-teaches a mixed third/fourth-grade classroom at CICS West Belden in Chicago, leads a small group.
Educators nationally are striving to incorporate more personalization: giving students what they need by adapting what, when, how, and where students learn. But personalized learning is just one of several big instructional trends—high standards, aligned curricula, teaching the whole child, improving social-emotional skills, to name a few. None has achieved its potential.
Personalization, along with those other reforms, is missing a key ingredient: school staffing models to carry reforms, whatever they may be, into millions of classrooms with success.
In typical schools, teachers just don’t have the daily guidance, constant feedback, and support from colleagues to improve fast when trying something new. It’s no surprise that instructional reforms haven’t scaled up with positive results within many individual schools, much less across the nation.
At Vegas Verdes Elementary in the Clark County (Nevada) School District, one of three “Franchise” elementary schools under Principal John Haynal, teachers such as Deryn Cattaneo, shown here, use blended learning in a rotation model to reach more students with expert lead teachers who are assisted by a tutor.
So what new staffing models can help, and how? Innovating educators are beginning to crack the code.
In partnership with the Clayton Christensen Institute, we released school profiles, videos and a report showing how eight schools are personalizing learning and getting results that they attribute to new staffing models. Lead report authors Sharon Kebschull Barrett and Tom Arnett examined district, charter, and private schools serving primarily disadvantaged students and using new staffing models and blended learning.
We already knew about one innovation: multi-classroom leaders in the Opportunity Culture initiative. Third-party research from the Brookings Institution and American Institutes for Research showed their impact: Teachers who were on average at the 50th percentile in student learning gains, who then joined teams led by teacher-leaders known as multi-classroom leaders, or MCLs (who had prior high growth as teachers), produced learning gains equivalent to those of teachers from the 75th to 85th percentile in math, and, in six of the seven statistical models, from 66th to 72nd percentile in reading.
While more research needs to confirm the connection, educators across all the schools we studied with Christensen attributed their student learning outcomes to the guidance, support, and strong relationships among teachers and students catalyzed by these collaborative staffing models. Students enthusiastically touted their increased opportunities to work where and how they preferred, based on their personal goals. All the schools provided tailored instruction in small groups, and in some one-on-one. They shared stories of the time and concern that multiple adults showed for them.
Two critical themes emerged: the importance of relationships—within teaching teams and between teachers and students—and the importance of gathering, analyzing, and quickly acting upon student learning data.
Christina Hanna, who co-teaches a third/fourth mixed-grade classroom at CICS West Belden in Chicago, works one-on-one with a student.
From the changes engendered by new teaching roles, we found these powerful commonalities:
• Innovative roles on a career path. New roles helped multiple adults connect with students and support one another on a career path. Roles included teacher-leaders of small instructional teams, who often planned and directed team teachers’ instruction, coached the teachers, and analyzed data, upholding the school’s focus on high standards; collaborating teachers who worked in teams and supported one another more than typically happens for classroom teachers in traditional schools; support staff who tutored or mentored students, providing more one-on-one or small-group time; and teachers-in-training, who supported other teachers and taught while learning on the job in paid fellowships or residencies, enabling schools to build their own teacher pipelines. Importantly, the schools largely paid for these roles—including those with higher pay—within existing budgets, making them sustainable.
• Adult–student connection. Critically, adults in each role worked directly with students, often in small groups or one on one for a portion of each day.
• Intensive collaboration on small teaching teams. Collaboration let multiple adults share what they learned about each student—personal factors, interests, strengths, and barriers that might affect learning. Teachers gained insight into why students were excelling or stalling, not just what students knew, allowing teachers to personalize how they engaged each student. And collaboration helped develop their instructional skills faster.
• Cultures of intensive coaching. Weekly or even daily observations and feedback supported rapid educator improvement and consistent instruction. Schools designed roles, responsibilities, and schedules to support openness about strengths and improvement opportunities.
• Blended learning for data and differentiation. Blended learning for part of each day provided time for more small-group instruction, and gave teachers real-time student learning data. This helped teachers identify what students knew and the next steps for learning. Schools were able to regroup students frequently, quickly respond to struggling students, and help teachers improve by pinpointing instructional planning and professional development needs.
• Deliberate and careful creation of schedules that made school-day teacher collaboration
These schools showed that what sounds like an impossible task—getting every individual teacher to implement strong personalized learning for a wide range of student developmental needs—is possible, with staffing changes and thoughtful use of blended learning.
Doing this at full scale with strong results may actually be possible, in both charter and district schools, because they used a precious resource that exists everywhere: excellent teachers, who, instead of working alone, expanded their instructional impact by leading small teams and/or collaborating with colleagues. And they did so largely within existing budgets, after limited costs for design and, in pre-existing schools, transition to their models.
While only Multi-Classroom Leadership has the rigorous research needed to link it to student learning gains, all the profiled schools illuminate promising new options. What’s most important: these schools have recognized that staffing models must change to help large numbers of teachers make the big instructional shifts that system leaders want—with a real chance of success.
— Bryan C. Hassel and Emily Ayscue Hassel
Bryan C. Hassel and Emily Ayscue Hassel are Co-Directors of Public Impact.
					Last updated June 13, 2018
					License this Content
			Bryan HasselAuthor BioEmily Ayscue HasselAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            EdStat: $18 Billion a Year is Spent on Professional Development for U.S. Teachers
            June 12, 2018
            Next Article
            What Do Test Scores Really Mean for the Economy?
            June 14, 2018
We Recommend You Read
		Teachers Don’t Need to Go It Alone on Personalized Learning
		by Betheny Gross
		New Research on Opportunity Culture: Multi-Classroom Leaders’ Teams Produce Significant Learning Gains
		by Emily Ayscue Hassel
		Defining Personalized Learning and Blended Learning: Is There a Difference?
		by Julia Freeland Fisher
                                    Bryan Hassel	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
