        HomepageAccessibility linksSkip to contentAccessibility Help  BBC Account  CBBCCBBC iPlayerNewsroundBitesizeOwn ItCBeebiesCBBC on TVCBBC HelpMenu  SearchSearch the BBCSearch the BBC   
        To get the best experience from Own It, you need to upgrade your browser to the latest version.
            Home
            Menu
                Home
                  The Basics
                  Take Control
                  It's Personal
                  Don't Panic
                  About Us
  Start your search here...
  Start your search here...
    Autumn Crafts
                    Love
                    Loved
                    Unlove
    2
    View comments
    2
        Autumn Crafts
        Autumn has arrived! The season of all things gold but most importantly, the season of creativity!
With so many wonderful materials to choose from such as leaves and pumpkins, why not have a go at making something completely different!
                    Love
                    Loved
                    Unlove
    2
    View comments
    2
        Autumn leaves wind catcher
          Wanting to add some autumn colour to your bedroom window? Then this is the make for you! 
What you’ll need: 
 1 long twig 
 4-5 autumnal leaves 
 Brown string 
Instructions: 
 Grab your twig and place horizontally in front of you on a table 
 Use the string to tie your leaves to your twig at various lengths 
 Cut a 10cm piece of string and create a loop to form a handle 
 Tie both ends of your handle to secure in place 
Ta-da! Told you it was simple! 
GRAB YOUR PHONE: Next time the wind blows, video your leaf catcher and share with your friends and family! It can be super-relaxing to sit and watch nature close up for minute or two!
        Scribble lantern
          Grab your coat and head outside because for this next make, you’re going to need the perfect golden leaf! 
What you’ll need: 
 1 leaf 
 1 plain piece of A4 paper 
 1 coloured piece of tissue paper 
 Scissors 
 Tape 
 Coloured pencils 
Instructions: 
 Scribble all over your A4 piece of paper using different coloured pencils 
 On the reverse side of your paper, put your leaf in the centre and carefully trace around the edges 
 Now using some scissors, cut out the middle of your traced leaf 
 With your tissue paper, cut a large square to cover your cut out leaf 
 Secure the tissue paper in place using some tape 
 Roll together your A4 paper into a cylinder and tape together the edges 
 Fold the bottom of your lantern in to create a base and secure using your tape 
GRAB YOUR PHONE: Use the torch on your phone to place inside your lantern to create an autumnal mood right in the comfort of your own living room.
        Carve a pumpkin
          Okay okay, so we couldn’t forget the classic pumpkin! After all, it wouldn’t be autumn without carving a spooky design for all your neighbours to see! 
What you’ll need: 
 Pumpkin 
 Spoon 
 Carving kit 
 Pencil 
Instructions: 
 Ask an adult to cut off the top of your pumpkin 
 Using a spoon scoop out all the pumpkin flesh and seeds 
 Use a pencil to trace out your chosen design 
 Carefully begin carving your design using a carving kit or knife 
GRAB YOUR PHONE: If you’re struggling for creativity this year, why not look up some funky pumpkin designs on your phone? Whether it’s spooky or funny, the choice is completely yours!  
You can get more great advice, on the go, with the Own It app. 
Download from your Apple or GooglePlay app store. If you're under 13, ask your parent or guardian to download the app for you.
        *NEW* on Own It 
                previous items
                next items
      What's NEW in the Own It app?
       Feeling busy? Try this meditation.
      Do you know these Black tech inventors?
      Autumn Crafts
      Hacker takes no notice of nasty comments!
      Stamp out racism with Gabriel Zakuani
      What is ASMR?
      Feeling the digital FOMO?
      The anatomy of anxiety
      It’s Staycation time!
      Is there such a thing as too much gaming?
      Do you know this ancient tech?
      When online challenges become dangerous
      How to tell if your friend needs help
      Lockdown Scrapbook 
      1 metre apart is just the start 
      Mahalia: How to exercise your creativity
      Tom Walker's Top Tips
      Tom Read Wilson's top tip for exercising
      Level up your virtual world 
      Learn a new language with your phone
      When life at home gets tough!
      Dealing with mean comments online 
      Katie Thistleton's digital detox tips
      Jamie Campbell explains: scary stuff online
      Vlogging top tips
      Man City's Keira Walsh - Top Tips!
      Five ways to learn at home!
      Stay home but don’t be alone!
      Isolation Inspiration: What is Rhys doing?
      Homeschooling just got interesting!
      Your wellbeing indoors: The expert advice 
      Back to school - let's reconnect!
                Number of loves 
                17
        NEW!
      Do you know these Black tech inventors?
        |
                Number of Loves, LOLs and other reactions 
                11
      5 top tips for moving to high school
                    Number of comments 
                    52
        |
                Number of loves 
                14
    Your CommentsJoin the conversation
            To use comments you will need to have JavaScript enabled.
        These comments are now closed.2 commentsCCaitlin10:01 30 Sepit was sooo fun  [Edited by Moderator]0BBLUE17:23 24 Septhe leaf wind catcher is beautiful!0Back to top3.60.0
        *NEW* on Own It 
      Hacker takes no notice of nasty comments!
      Stamp out racism with Gabriel Zakuani
      What is ASMR?
      Feeling the digital FOMO?
        View collection
                Love this? Sign in to let us know.
        Sign in
         with your BBC iD, or
        Register
    Something's gone wrong
  Please try again later
 Explore the BBCCBBCCBBC iPlayerNewsroundBitesizeOwn ItCBeebiesCBBC on TVCBBC Help Terms of UseAbout the BBCPrivacy PolicyCookiesAccessibility HelpParental GuidanceContact the BBCGet Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                
