        Make a donation to sustain Haymarket Books!
        We use cookies to enhance your experience. Dismiss this message or
        find out more.
      Books for changing the world
        About
        Authors
        Books
        Blog
        Events
        Book Club
        Donate
              Cart (0)
                Free shipping on US orders over $25
                Log In  Sign Up
                  40% Off Haymarket Books for Latinx Liberation
                - 5 days left
                  40% Off: Reading Arundhati Roy
                - 4 days left
        Make a donation to sustain Haymarket Books!
                      Racial Capitalism: A Reading List
                            A reading list on the historical development and dynamics of racial capitalism, as well as examples of resistance.
                      Learning Together (while staying apart): Online Event Schedule
                            Join Haymarket Books for a series of online events hosted in the context of the current crisis, and watch past events.
              Featured Books
          Can't Pay, Won't Pay
          by Debt Collective
        A Powerful Guide to Action for People in Debt.
          We Still Here
          by Marc Lamont Hill
        In the midst of loss and death and suffering, our charge is to figure out what freedom really means—and how we take steps to get there.
          Azadi
          by Arundhati Roy
        From the best-selling author of My Seditious Heart and the Ministry of Utmost Happiness, a new and pressing dispatch from the heart of the crowd and the solitude of the writer's desk. 
          How We Go Home
          Edited by Sara Sinclair
        How We Go Home shares contemporary Indigenous stories in the long and ongoing fight to protect Native land and life.
          Black Lives Matter at School
          by Jesse Hagopian and Denisha Jones
        Black Lives Matter at School connects thousands of educators around the country who are fighting racial and economic inequality in schools. 
          Black Power Afterlives
          Edited by Diane Fujino and Matef Harmachis
        A powerful and wide-ranging collection examining the persistent impact of the Black Panther Party on subsequent liberation struggles.
          On Edward Said
          by Hamid Dabashi
        An intimate intellectual, political and personal portrait of Edward Said, one of the 20th centuries' leading public intellectuals.
          A People's Guide to Capitalism
          by Hadas Thier
        A lively, accessible, and timely guide to Capitalism for those who want to understand and dismantle the world of the 1%
          Text Messages
          by Yassin Al Salman
        Text Messages is a survival guide for our anxious age from Iraqi-Canadian rapper and multi-media artist Yassin  'Narcy ' Alsalman.
          Dying for an iPhone
          by Jenny Chan, Pun Ngai, et al.
        A harrowing look lives and struggles of a new generation of Chinese workers confronting the Apple-Foxconn empire and the Chinese state.
              Featured Authors
  Michael Bennett
  “There is a tradition of athletes who understand that sports is a way to reach people and change the world. Michael Bennett's name deserves mention alongside the best of us.”
—Dr. John Carlos
  Angela Y. Davis
  "Here is someone worthy of the Ancestors who delivered her. Angela Davis has stood her ground on every issue important to the health of our people and the planet."—Alice Walker
  Eve L. Ewing
  "Ignore Eve Ewing at your own intellectual, political, and cultural peril."
–Chicago Magazine
  Naomi Klein
  "Naomi Klein has become the most visible and influential figure on the left–what Howard Zinn and Noam Chomsky were thirty years ago." —The New Yorker
  Aja Monet
  “Aja Monet’s poetry offers us textures of feeling and radical shifts of meaning that expand our capacity to envision and fight for new worlds.”
—Angela Y. Davis
  José Olivarez
  “José Olivarez’s work shines a spotlight on the often-overlooked stories of Mexican-Americans in the Midwest—the all too familiar feeling of being ni de aqui, ni de alla (not from here, nor there).”
—Remezcla
  Arundhati Roy
“Arundhati Roy is one of the few great revolutionary intellectuals in our time."
—Cornel West
  Rebecca Solnit
  "No writer has weighed the complexities of sustaining hope in our times of readily available despair more thoughtfully and beautifully, nor with greater nuance."
—Maria Popova
  Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor
  "Taylor has absconded from the ivory tower to break down the current Movement for Black Lives, arguing that it holds the potential to reignite a broader push for black liberation."
—The Root
  Howard Zinn
  “Few people changed more lives than Howard Zinn."—Naomi Klein
      About
      Authors
      Books
      Blog
      Events
      Book Club
      Donate
    Sign up for our email newsletter
    FOLLOW US:
