        HomepageAccessibility linksSkip to contentAccessibility Help  BBC Account  CBBCCBBC iPlayerNewsroundBitesizeOwn ItCBeebiesCBBC on TVCBBC HelpMenu  SearchSearch the BBCSearch the BBC   
        To get the best experience from Own It, you need to upgrade your browser to the latest version.
            Home
            Menu
                Home
                  The Basics
                  Take Control
                  It's Personal
                  Don't Panic
                  About Us
  Start your search here...
  Start your search here...
    6 ways to cope with uncertainty and change!
                    Love
                    Loved
                    Unlove
    0
        6 ways to cope with uncertainty and change!
        It can feel like the world around us (and the rules) keep changing at the moment. Whether it’s new rules at school or local lockdowns in the news. This can leave us all feeling uncertain and worried at times, but it’s important to remember that you're never alone. 
                    Love
                    Loved
                    Unlove
    0
          It can feel like the world around us (and the rules) keeps changing at the moment. Whether it’s new regulations at school, or local lockdowns in the news, this can leave us all feeling uncertain and worried at times, but it’s important to remember that you're never alone. 
Here are 6 simple ways you can protect yourself from anxiety during times of change:
        1. Stay in the ‘here and now’
          Try to focus on just the day ahead of you rather than fixating on longer-term plans. Put down your phone and relax for a moment. Living purely in the moment is a skill that Tibetan monks, and people who meditate, practice because it helps them feel happy - you can just as easily do it as well! 
Just take one day at a time, and if you feel your mind drifting bring it back to focus on doing something mindful or creative, like making a creative scrapbook.
        2. Manage your expectations
          The current situation has taken away from most us the ability to make plans and stick to them. It's natural to want to make plans, and have things to look forward but, for now only, it's better to focus on things that are closer in time, like the next few days or weeks to avoid disappointment if activities we plan don't turn out to be exactly the way we imagined.
        3. Find a routine
          To help you feel more in control of your life and less stressed about the changes around you, find your own little routine that can help you keep focus on the here and now. Routines give us a great sense of security, for example, you can control what time to play your favourite game to relax, or how long to spend online talking with friends, and that can be something that happens every day at the same time with no interruptions. Here’s more on making a great daily routine. 
        4. Avoid online ‘triggers’
          Don’t spend too much time online reading social media and following every news story. It can be hard to tell what is real or accurate, and everyone likes to share their opinions online. Unfollow accounts that stress you out to avoid feeling like the news is spiraling out of control. 
Try and stay focused on positive stories, and places or people that give a balanced views.
        5. Talk. Talk. Talk
          Whether over online messages, the phone, or in person - tell your family and friends how you are feeling because other people will most likely be feeling the same way and talking to people you trust will always help.*
        6. Don’t borrow trouble
          *However! When talking to others about your worries and stresses try not to borrow their troubles. Some of your friends might have their own worries, or be feeling more negative than you do. None of us have magic powers to predict the future, so don't be too concerned by new worries other people may have, just be a good friend and send them over to Own It. 
Uncertainty will not be with us forever, but these clever tools and ways of thinking can be with you for life! 
Advice from Dr George Kitsaras (CPscyhol), University of Manchester.   
You can get more great advice, on the go, with the Own It app. Download from your Apple or GooglePlay app store. If you're under 13, ask your parent or guardian to download the app for you.
        Coping with change and uncertainty
                previous items
                next items
      6 ways to cope with uncertainty and change!
      Is the news making you feel anxious?
      How to reach out to others when you're worri...
      Moment of crisis
      5 things to do when you’re feeling down
      How to tell if your friend needs help
      Moment of relaxation
      The five ways to look after your own wellbei...
      Moment of reflection
      Back to school - let's reconnect!
                Number of loves 
                17
      5 top tips for moving to high school
                    Number of comments 
                    52
        |
                Number of loves 
                14
      Hacker takes no notice of nasty comments!
                Number of Loves, LOLs and other reactions 
                37
        Coping with change and uncertainty
      Is the news making you feel anxious?
      How to reach out to others when you're worri...
      Moment of crisis
      5 things to do when you’re feeling down
        View collection
                Love this? Sign in to let us know.
        Sign in
         with your BBC iD, or
        Register
    Something's gone wrong
  Please try again later
 Explore the BBCCBBCCBBC iPlayerNewsroundBitesizeOwn ItCBeebiesCBBC on TVCBBC Help Terms of UseAbout the BBCPrivacy PolicyCookiesAccessibility HelpParental GuidanceContact the BBCGet Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                
