     Skip to Main Content
                                        What official Dreamwidth communities are there?
                        We have a number of official (site sponsored and site run) communities on Dreamwidth.  We use them for a number of purposes, from discussing how to use the site to sharing information about its day-to-day running with you.  Which of them you follow are entirely up to you, but we strongly suggest that everyone should follow both dw_news and dw_maintenance in order to keep informed of things you'll need to know (for instance, planned downtime) and things you'll want to know (for instance, the release of new features). You can recognise our official communities easily, since they're preceeded by  rather than  but for easier reference here is a list of official Dreamwidth communities and a short description of their focus.  Announcementsdw_news — General news and information about Dreamwidth Studios, LLC.dw_maintenance — Information about planned maintenance and scheduled or unscheduled downtime.dw_biz — Information and discussion about Dreamwidth Studios, LLC as a business.changelog — A list of all changes that get made to our code. This is high-volume and highly technical.General Interestdw_suggestions — For making new suggestions about how to improve Dreamwidth.dw_codesharing — For requesting invite codes or offering your spares.dw_community_promo — A place to promote your Dreamwidth communities.dw_feed_promo — A place to promote interesting feeds you're watching.dw_meetups — For organizing face-to-face meetings of people involved with Dreamwidth.dw_nifty — For the ingenious things you can do with Dreamwidth that you might not know about.Volunteeringdw_volunteers — Information useful to people wanting to volunteer with us.dw_docs — Discussion of our documentation.dw_docs_training — Training community for those who want to help write documentation.dw_styles — Discussion about styles and our style system.dreamscapes — Community focused on the development of themes for Tabula Rasa on Dreamwidth.dw_design — Discussion of both visual design and usability design.dw_dev — Technical community for developers.dw_dev_training — Training community for people taking their first steps in writing code for us.dw_support — Information-sharing for people volunteering in Dreamwidth support.dw_support_training — A training community for people who are getting started with Dreamwidth support.dw_accessibility — Discussion of accessibility issues on Dreamwidth.dw_antispam — Closed community for use by the Antispam team. Occasional public posts announcing antispam-related news.dw_wiki — Community for discussion of Dreamwidth's wiki.dw_beta — Beta testing coordination and planning.dw_mobile — For planning and improving the mobile version of Dreamwidth.
                Last Activity:
                February 26th, 2012 (denise)
    Licensing
Back to the full FAQ list.
Return to the Search Page.
Need more help? Go to the Support Area.
    Log in
            Account name:
            Password:
             Remember me
            Other options:
              Forget your password?
              Log in with OpenID?
      ×
                    menu
  Log in
Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
InterestRegionSite and AccountFAQEmailIM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
