            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogCharter SchoolsOpinionSchool ChoiceState PolicyVouchers and Tax Credits
                            Majority of U.S. Students Now Exercise School Choice
                                By Bruno V. Manno                                                                                                                            
		Bruno V. Manno
            Community Outreach Academy in McClellan, Calif., celebrates School Choice Week.
Thousands of communities across the United States will mark this week as National School Choice Week.
“The world’s largest celebration of opportunity in education,” the program, in its ninth year, champions the belief that families should have the freedom to choose the K-12 school or other learning option that best suits their child.
These options include traditional district schools, charter schools, magnet schools, private schools, online schools, micro schools, homeschooling, or innovative combinations of these options.
The best kept secret about school choice today is that it’s no longer the delinquent stepchild of K-12 education. Consider these three facts:
• A majority of Americans support school choice.
• A majority of the nation’s K-12 students attend schools of choice.
• America’s school choosers are satisfied with the choices they’re making.
This means it is now normal for parents to exercise their right to send their child to the school that best meets their needs.
Education Next’s 2019 nationally representative survey of 3,046 adults reveals the nation’s sentiment on vouchers, tax credits, and charter schools—ways families can choose an alternative to having a school district bureaucracy assign their child to a public school. The study oversamples African Americans and Hispanics to examine their specific viewpoints.
Vouchers allow parents to use public dollars to enroll a child in a private school, with dollars going to low income families—targeted vouchers—or all families—universal vouchers. Targeted vouchers are favored by 49% of the public, while 41% oppose them. Since 2016, support increased 12 points and opposition decreased 7 points. The US has 29 targeted voucher programs. While today no universal voucher program exists, 55% favor this approach and 37% oppose it, with support increasing since 2016 by 10 points and opposition decreasing 7 points.
Tax credits allow individual or corporate donors to pay for scholarships for low income families to send a child to a private school. They receive support from 58% of the public while 26% oppose them. Since 2016, support increased by 5 points and opposition decreased 3 points. The US has 23 tax credit programs.
Charter schools allow families to choose a public school operated independently of the traditional school district. Public opinion on charters has been volatile since 2016. Today, public approval is at 48%—about where it was in 2016—while disapproval is at 39%, as high as 2017. The US has 45 charter school laws.
Political affiliation is associated with an individual’s opinions on school choice. Targeted vouchers are supported by 44% of Republicans and 52% of Democrats, while universal vouchers receive 61% and 55% support respectively.
Tax credits are supported by 65% of Republicans and 57% of Democrats, while charters receive backing from 61% of Republicans though are opposed by a 48% plurality of Democrats.
School choice divides the Democratic party along racial and ethnic lines, with African American and Hispanic Democrats supporting choice at much higher levels than non-Hispanic whites.
What percentage of U.S. K-12 students are enrolled in schools of choice?
The National Center for Education Statistics’ most recent information from 2016 shows:
• 19.8% were enrolled in non-charter public schools of choice through magnet schools or non-charter public-school choice programs like open enrollment, allowing families to choose a school other than the assigned district school.
• 9.5% were enrolled in private schools.
• 4.6% of all K-12 students, including private school and homeschool students, were enrolled in charter schools.
• 20% were enrolled in schools due to families exercising “real estate choice”—i.e., they admit buying homes in good school districts to choose a suitable public school for their child.
Total those numbers and confront a little-known fact: a majority of U.S. students—53.9%—exercise school choice, outnumbering those attending assigned public schools.
Are parents satisfied with their choices?
A higher percentage of parents with students in choice schools are “very satisfied” with elements of their child’s education than those in assigned schools. The same is true about parental satisfaction with a school’s academic standards, order and discipline, and staff interaction with parents.
Furthermore, the voluntary exercise of school choice makes the school a vital part of what sociologists call civil society’s mediating institutions, giving families a sense of place and purpose between their private life and the large, bureaucratic institutions of public life.
It likewise nurtures the development of social capital by cultivating relationships and networks that foster community.
School choice is no longer the stepchild of K-12 education. It’s a dominant feature.
And as one author states, “Its growth is the result of people’s deepest urge—to look after their children.”
Yet based on presidential candidate discourse and mainstream media coverage of the topic, one would deduce that school choice is an issue that is still up for debate, so we continue to fight old, tired battles that prevent us from putting the interests of children first.
The hearts, minds, and opinions of U.S. adults endorse school choice. They’re voting with their feet to exercise choice.
That’s worth celebrating this week.
Bruno V. Manno is a senior advisor for the K-12 Program with the Walton Family Foundation.
Correction: Due to an editor’s formatting error, an earlier version of this article included incorrect numbers.
					Last updated January 27, 2020
					License this Content
			Bruno V. MannoAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            Bernie, Bloomberg, Booker, and the New Politics of Education
            January 24, 2020
            Next Article
            What Bernie Sanders Doesn’t Get About School Reform
            January 29, 2020
We Recommend You Read
		Good Reads for National School Choice Week
		by Education Next
		Charter School Advocates Should Think Twice Before Trashing Vouchers
		by Derrell Bradford
		Bye-Bye, Booker
		by Matt Dickinson
                                    Bruno V. Manno	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
