https://www.who.int/data/data-collection-tools
Data collection and analysis tools
Monitoring the health situation, trends, progress and performance of health systems requires data from multiple sources on a wide variety of health topics. A core component of WHO’s support to Member States is to strengthen their capacity to collect, compile, manage, analyze and use health data mainly derived from population-based sources (household surveys, civil registration systems of vital events) and institution-based sources (administrative and operational activities of institutions, such as health facilities).




A technical package of five essential interventions with key elements to strengthen country health data and information systems and enable governments to track progress towards the health-related SDGs and national and subnational priorities.

Health Service Data


Regular, reliable data from health facilities and the resource systems that support them are central to ensuring availability and quality of health services.

World Health Survey Plus (WHS+)


The World Health Survey Plus (WHS+) is a multi-topic, multi-mode, and multi-platform survey system to address essential data gaps with the flexibility to adapt to countries’ unique data needs and to strengthen surveillance capacity. The WHS+ provides critical data for informed decision making.

WHO Mortality Database


An annual compilation of mortality data by age, sex and cause of death by country reported by Member States from Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (CRVS) Systems with historical data going back to 1950.

Civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS)


A well-functioning CRVS records all births and deaths, issues the relevant certificates, and compiles and shares vital statistics including cause of death information.

COVID-19 Question Bank


The Covid-19 Question Bank contains questions from surveys 
and data collection instruments used around the world.  You can explore 
these questions by selecting topic areas and optionally a specific 
survey.


Harmonized Health Facility Assessment


Availability and quality of health services are integral to universal 
health coverage (UHC) and contribute achieving the sustainable 
development goals (SDGs). The harmonized health facility assessment 
(HHFA) modules represent a comprehensive external
review tool that assesses whether health facilities have the appropriate
 systems in place to deliver services at required standards of quality.


