            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        BlogOpinion
                            The Parable of the Teacher and the Experts
                                By Frederick Hess                                                                                                                            
		Frederick Hess
It’s the dawn of a new school year—a time of high hopes and grand dreams of improvement. As I settled down to pen my own exuberant paean to fresh beginnings, though, I fell into a fever dream. I was in an empty classroom when an apparition of James Earl Jones appeared and narrated the following parable in his trademark baritone. He then directed me to share the tale far and wide, gave a cheery wave, and vanished through the closed door. When I awoke, I hastily scribbled down what he’d said. Here you go:
In a place called Schoolandia, there was a school with a principal, a teacher, and students. The teacher worked and prepared lesson plans, and the principal supervised the school.
The students attended school most days. Some learned a lot. Some learned a little. Some learned nothing at all.
An observer saw that this was a problem. The school’s principal agreed. When they told the teacher it was not good that some students learned less than others, and that some learned nothing at all, the teacher agreed.
“But what would you have me do?” she asked. “I prepare differentiated lessons. I engage in spiraled instruction. I use rigorous, grade-appropriate materials. I mentor. What more should I do?”
So the principal solicited advice. And the experts arrived.
A researcher explained that she had conducted elaborate studies to identify ways to help “lagging learners.” She had studied a mentoring program that had yielded big gains. She’d studied instructional practices that yielded huge gains. She said the teacher should do these things. When the teacher asked how to do them, the researcher gave her some articles. When the programs didn’t seem to work, the teacher asked if perhaps she was doing them wrong. The researcher wasn’t sure but said something about “implementation difficulties.”
An advocate arrived, denounced the school-to-prison pipeline, and insisted that the school had to do better. He decried the unequal outcomes as unjust and inequitable. He declared that there was a need for urgency and insisted that “lagging learners” instead be called “opportunity youth.” He roared that something had to be done. When the principal observed that previous urgent efforts hadn’t made much difference, the advocate blamed “implementation issues” and thundered that this is why an urgent sense of urgent urgency was vital. The principal nodded and insisted that urgent things would be done. The teacher nodded.
An innovator arrived and said that the teacher needed to use more technology. He proposed new iPads, better internet connectivity, and an acclaimed “blended model.” The teacher followed all of the recommendations. Some students still learned less than others, and some still learned nothing at all. The innovator muttered something about “implementation challenges.”
And finally, the teacher said, “I feel like part of the problem is that I’m being pulled in too many ways. I’m being asked to fill out too many pieces of paper. It’s harder to teach well when I have too many interruptions, new initiatives, and contradictory directives.”
In response, the researcher talked again about new findings. The advocate spoke again about urgency and injustice. And the innovator suggested more new purchases and programs. This time, though, they said it all slower and louder.
The teacher observed that, lost amidst all this bustle, some students did seem to be doing better. But, even so, some still learned less than others, and some still learned nothing at all.
So the researcher called for more research. The advocate called for new tests and urged that the school stop punishing students who misbehaved. And the innovator suggested even more new technological tools.
The principal looked at the teacher. The teacher looked at the students. Then the teacher went back to working and preparing lesson plans, and the principal to supervising the school.
And the researcher, the advocate, and the innovator commiserated with one another about the teacher who failed to heed their expertise, then visited their funders to explain why they needed more dollars to continue their efforts to pursue transformative system change.
You know. Maybe my fever dream wasn’t actually a parable, after all. Maybe it was more of a premonition of how this school year will once again go for so many.
Frederick Hess is director of education policy studies at AEI and an executive editor at Education Next.
This post originally appeared on Rick Hess Straight Up.
					Last updated September 4, 2019
					License this Content
			Frederick HessAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            What Do Education Reform Failures Have in Common?
            August 30, 2019
            Next Article
            Kids Who Had Been “Left Behind” Are Doing Much Better Today Than 25 Years Ago. But What About the Middle Class?
            September 6, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		Straight Up Conversation: Teaching Matters CEO Lynette Guastaferro
		by Frederick Hess
		Straight Up Conversation: 2017 National History Teacher of the Year Sara Ziemnik
		by Frederick Hess
		A Cut-and-Paste End-of-Year Letter for Education Advocates
		by Frederick Hess
                                    Frederick Hess	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
