https://www.who.int/about
About WHO
Better health for everyone, everywhere
We are building a better, healthier future for people all over the world.
Working with 194 Member States, across six regions, and from more than 150 offices, WHO staff are united in a shared commitment to achieve better health for everyone, everywhere.
Together we strive to combat diseases – communicable diseases like influenza and HIV, and noncommunicable diseases like cancer and heart disease.
We help mothers and children survive and thrive so they can look forward to a healthy old age. We ensure the safety of the air people breathe, the food they eat, the water they drink – and the medicines and vaccines they need.
WHO brochure
Working for better health for everyone, everywhere
Who we are
WHO began when our Constitution came into force on 7 April 1948 – a date we now celebrate every year as World Health Day.
We are now more than 7000 people working in 150 country offices, in six regional offices and at our headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
What we do
Our primary role is to direct and coordinate international health within the United Nations system.
Our main areas of work are health systems; health through the life-course; noncommunicable and communicable diseases; preparedness, surveillance and response; and corporate services.
Where we work
We support countries as they coordinate the efforts of governments and partners – including bi- and multilaterals, funds and foundations, civil society organizations and the private sector.
Working together, we attain health objectives
    by supporting national health policies and strategies.
How we are governed
The World Health Assembly is attended by delegations from all Member States, and determines the policies of the Organization.
The Executive Board is composed of members technically qualified in health, and gives effect to the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly.
Who we work with
Our core function is to direct and coordinate international health work through collaboration.
WHO partners with countries, the United Nations system, international organisations, civil society, foundations, academia, and research institutions.
Planning, finance and accountability
The General Programme of Work sets the framework for the financial resources and expenditures of WHO every five years.
Our programme budget portal is updated every quarter, and provides a breakdown of our work by categories, programmes and outputs.
Overview of our work
SMALLPOX - Smallpox, a devastating contagious disease, was declared eradicated in 1980 following a global immunization campaign led by the World Health Organization. It is the only infectious disease to have been eradicated.
WHO/P. Almasy
IMMUNIZATION - The Expanded Programme on Immunization, set up by WHO in the early 1970s, has, in partnership with UNICEF, Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, and others, brought lifesaving vaccines to millions of children.
WHO/R. Akbar
TUBERCULOSIS - Global efforts to combat tuberculosis have saved 53 million lives globally since 2000. This has largely been a result of expanded prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
The Global Fund/N. Sobecki
MALARIA - Malaria deaths dropped by approximately 60% between 2000 and 2015, as a result of expanded prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
WHO/PAHO
WATER AND SANITATION - Providing access to safe water is key to promoting health and reducing poverty. WHO is committed to preventing transmission of waterborne disease.
WHO/Y. Shimizu
NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES - WHO works with countries and partners to provide care to people affected by neglected tropical diseases. Many of these diseases are being eliminated, with guinea worm on the verge of eradication.
WHO/Y. Shimizu
HIV - HIV continues to be a major global public health issue. Yet bold new recommendations for earlier, simpler treatment, combined with efforts to facilitate access to cheaper generic medicines, have helped 21 million people get lifesaving treatment.
UNICEF/UNI164691/Noorani
MEDICINES - WHO’s Essential Medicines List, revised every two years, is a guide for countries on the core medicines that a national health system needs.
WHO/S. Torfinn
PREGNANCY - WHO is committed to improving access to safe, effective, quality and affordable care for all women during pregnancy and childbirth.
WHO/S. Torfinn
BREASTFEEDING - Breastfeeding is the best way to provide infants with the nutrients that they need. WHO recommends exclusive breastfeeding up to the age of six months.
WHO/Y. Shimizu
ADOLESCENTS - Road traffic injuries, lower respiratory infections and suicide are the biggest causes of death among adolescents. Most of these deaths can be prevented with good health services, education and social support.
UNICEF/UN0155746/Zammit
AGEING - Globally, life expectancy has increased by 25 years since 1950. Healthy older people contribute to society in many positive ways. WHO focuses on helping people continue doing what they enjoy for as long as possible.
WHO/Y. Shimizu
NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASES - Noncommunicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes and heart disease now account for 70% of all deaths. Healthy eating, physical exercise and regular health checks are the cornerstones of NCD prevention and control.
WHO/Panos Pictures/A. Loke
CANCER - The number of people being diagnosed with cancer is expected to rise by 70% over the next twenty years. Early identification and access to treatment increase the chances of survival and of being able to continue to lead a full life.
WHO/S. Volkov
TOBACCO - Tobacco kills more than 7 million people each year. Thanks to WHO and partners, tobacco control measures, such as graphic warnings on cigarette packs, advertising bans and smoke-free laws, protect two-thirds of the world’s population.
WHO/S. Volkov
DISABILITY - More than a billion people have some form of disability. WHO helps increase awareness of disability issues and to ensure that disability is included in health and development policies and programmes.
UNICEF/UN0121025/Gilbertson V
ROAD SAFETY - Road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death among 15-29 year-olds. WHO advocates for improved road safety at the highest political levels, whilst providing comprehensive advice to help prevent road traffic accidents.
AMEND
MENTAL HEALTH IN EMERGENCIES – People living through humanitarian emergencies are particularly vulnerable to mental health problems. WHO helps ensure that the mental health and psychosocial support provided in humanitarian emergencies is coordinated and effective.
WHO
ZIKA - During the spread of the Zika virus in 2016, WHO convened experts from around the world to consider potentially-related complications, make recommendations on effective strategies for management and care, and identify areas needing more research.
UNICEF/UN0148692/Volpe
ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE - Antimicrobial resistance threatens the effective prevention and treatment of an ever-increasing range of infections caused by bacteria, parasites, viruses and fungi. WHO is supporting countries with development of national action plans and strengthening of health and surveillance systems to help prevent and manage antimicrobial resistance.
WHO/Q. Mattingly
MONITORING DISEASES AND IDENTIFYING HEALTH TRENDS - Data provided by countries allows WHO to obtain a clearer picture of who is falling sick, from which disease, when and where, so that efforts can be targeted where they are needed most.
WHO/M. Sethi
RESPONDING TO OUBREAKS AND EMERGENCIES - Through its Health Emergencies Programme, WHO helps countries prevent, prepare for, detect and rapidly respond to disease outbreaks and public health emergencies.
WHO/W. Owens
RAPID RESPONSE TO HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCIES - WHO’s Contingency Fund for Emergencies helps WHO to respond rapidly to disease outbreaks, humanitarian crises and natural disasters. For example, funds were rapidly made available to help thousands of people in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, to prevent the spread of cholera, measles and diphtheria.
WHO/L. Mackenzie
UNIVERSAL HEALTH COVERAGE - WHO continues to strive for universal health coverage so that everyone, everywhere can access the health services they need, when and where they need them, without financial hardship.
WHO/Panos Pictures/A. Loke
