JavaScript is required to view this site.    Log inSign up                    ceo v&lt;&gt;
                    Most recentMost popularMost recentFilter by post typeAll postsTextPhotoQuoteLinkChatAudioVideoAskGrid ViewList View
            k.th |business attire|        kth x f!readerSummary: Regional Manager Kim TaeHyung works at JinHit Conglomerate, under CEO Kim Namjoon. You, his assistant, are new and bumbling and your mistakes, as well as your skirts, are driving him crazy.OR The one where Taehyung can’t survive without getting you out of your skirt.wc: 10,557warnings: smut. smut smut smut smut. a little bit of fluff because tae is fluffy. power dynamics, subtle dom!Tae/sub!reader (like blink and you miss it), unprotected sex (please practice safe sex), office sexual harassment (if this happens to you in real life please report them), lots of growling, spanking, fingering, edging, threat of orgasm denial, lite bondage (blink and miss it), “punishment”“Kim, report back to me after the 11 o'clock tomorrow.”The CEO’s voice was firm but quiet, not needing to be loud to command attention. CEO Kim Namjoon had recently taken over for his aging father, and Taehyung was thankful to be working under the younger man; the vibe in the office had shifted to one that was more relaxed, though still respectable.“Sir.” Kim Taehyung bowed his head before standing up from the large table, gathering his folders and the papers falling out of them, dismissed from the office after the morning briefing.Taehyung left the briefing room, walking down the hall to take the elevator down to return to his office, which was a beautiful glass windowed corner workplace. The elevator opened up to the 48th floor, and Taehyung stepped out.“Um, sir? Mr. Kim?” Your soft voice came from behind Taehyung as you followed him dutifully back towards his office. He paused his walk mid-stride, turning slowly to look back over his shoulder at you, an eyebrow raised into his blonde hair. He was tall, lean, and had the face of a model; easily the most attractive person you had ever had the pleasure of working under in your entire life. Keep reading        
                            hisunshiine                        FollowUnfollowhisunshiinehisunshiinewritingsbts smutbts aubts one shotkim taehyungceo taehyungbts ceo authe ceo seriesthe ceo series btshisunshiine btsbts writingbts vbts ceo vceo vbts CEOCEO btsCEO serieshisunshiine writingsbts fanficbts scenariosbts seriesTaehyungtaehyungietaetaetaetaebearhow are you so perfectliterally bring tears to my eyesbts tae826 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
SO WTF ARE PEOPLE’S PROBLEM?! I HAVE ACTUALLY BEEN CRYING FOR SINCE I’VE FOUND OUTI love my husband so damn much and i’m literally heart broken right now.  Jungkook gives us so much and just wants us to respect not only him but his privacy and “army” can’t respect it?! I don’t care if we never get another update I just need him to be okay. Not over working himself and staying true to himself. I know people agree with me so please try and do this         
                            promptodeservesbetter                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts scenariosbts ceo aubts mafia smutbts reactionsbts comebackrun btsbts vbts jiminbts sugabts jhopebts jinbts jungshookbts jung hoseokbts junggukbts junghopebts rmbts rm iconsbts rm imaginebts rm x readerbts rm aestheticbts kim namjoonbts kim taehyungkim seokjinkim namjoonjeon jungkookbts jungkook3,927 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
anonymous asked:Yandere!CEO!Taehyung who is either obsessed with his assistant who is going to work for another Yandere!Ceo (Like Jungkook) or a coffee store owner where he gets his coffee from but the store is moving to a new townI got lost in the sauce bc I recently watched The Devil Wears Prada and I saw ‘assistant’ and ‘ceo’ and I went off.  Hope you don’t mind :)Admin/Writer- ChinkbihhWords- 6.7kTrigger Warnings- Sadism, verbal abuse, yandere TaehyungActually, The Devil Wears GucciOriginally posted by joonsoulmapYou had always thought that ‘The Devil Wears Prada’ was an over exaggeration of what a boss/assistant relationship could be.  Until you met Mr. Kim.Meryl Streep as a boss would’ve been an angel compared to the monster who signed your paychecks now.  Keep reading        
                            yandere-society                        FollowUnfollowkim taehyungyandere taehyungtaehyung x readerTaehyung yandere autaehyung ceo auceo auassistant aubts yandereyanderekpopyandere kpopyandere bts vbts vbts taehyungyandere jungkookjungkookrequesthorrorobsessionmy writingbts fanficyandere bts ficyandere bts fanfiction3,365 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Stress Relief (M)        video credits: sweaterpawsjimingif created by: Admin SmuttyfairySummary: When it’s been awhile since you’ve paid a visit to Mr. CEO Kim Taehyung’s office for help in his relief of stress. c;Genre: saaa-muttttttKeywords: rough sex, dirty talk, begging, teasing, orgasm denial(ish)??, spanking c:Word Count: 4028Written by: Admin SmuttyfairyA/N: I tried :D…anyway, I started on this last summer and completely forgot about it until I was scrolling through my google doc files. I started working on it again so here’s the finished product (again, i tried :D)! Keep reading        
                            smuttyfairy                        FollowUnfollowtaehyung smuttaehyung scenariostaehyung scenariokim taehyung smutkim taehyungbts smutbts scenariobts scenariostaehyung fluffbts fluffv scenariosbts v smutv smutbts v scenariosceo!auceo!taehyungtaehyung fanfictionbts fanfictionbangtan smutbangtan scenarios1,808 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            JIN MEETING BIGHIT:        Jin:
                                                So this year I was thinking of many things                    BIGHIT:
                                                *whispers* Oh no                    Jin:
                                                I even brought with me all the arguments alongside kitchen scissors if you insist on not giving my demands the rights they deserve.                    BIGHIT:
                                                Just tell us what do you want? A bigger apartment? More lobster on tour?                      Jin:
                                                A concert for BTS &amp; LEE HYUN &amp; TXT                    BIGHIT:
                                                Your schedule is full and TXT just debuted and-                    Jin:
                                                Hmm.. *Grabs the kitchen scissors*                    BIGHIT:
                                                OK A BIG CONCERT! THE BEST CONCERT! AN EXTRAORDINARY CONCERT! WE SHALL EXECUTE JIN CEO.                    
                            mimibtsghost                        FollowUnfollowbtsbangtanbangtan boysjinsugajhopermjiminbts vjungkooktxttomorrow x togethertomorrowxtogethermemefunnyhumorebts textjin ceojinhit1,936 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
when u have to teach a class at 9 but your wife’s board meeting is at 9:30
                            spicybon                        FollowUnfollowrwbyruby roseweiss schneewhite rosei love huntress teacher roob and ceo weiss :vart tag1,453 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
Love Me Please | Pt. 1Pairing: Taehyung x ReaderGenre: CEO!AU | Angst/FluffWord Count: 1872Author’s Note: I do not own the gif. Credit goes to owner.↠ Masterlist | ↠ Ask↠ Part 2Being the personal assistant of one of Korea’s well known businessman wasn’t easy. Especially, when said businessman was the most morose and irritating person you’ve ever met in your life. To be honest, when you first applied for this job, you did not expect your boss to be a 22-year-old young man. At the beginning, you admired how well he handled his work and company with passion and hard work at such a young age, finding it even attractive to the point where you couldn’t wait to go to work the next morning. Well, that was until he removed that heartwarming smile and showed his true face. Who would have known that said boss was hiding a very conceited personality behind that ‘Oh I’m so hardworking, down to earth and I love my job’ mask? Surprise! You didn’t. Until he started picking at everything you were doing, be it good or bad, giving you harsh comments every now and then, making you want to punch him right in the face. But being the hardworking woman you were, you never gave up and worked even harder, proving to him that no matter what he was doing, you wouldn’t break down as he wished you would.You name is Y/N, and you are going to show your boss, Kim Taehyung, that you’re unbreakable.“Mr. Kim, we need to hurry-“Before you could end your sentence, you covered your eyes with your hands, turning your head around so fast you thought your neck snapped. Taking a deep breath, you clenched your jaw tightly and hissed slightly. “Mr. Kim! The dinner starts in 15 minutes, we need to leave now.““Babe, why don’t you just kick her out?“ You heard the woman sitting on his lap ask with a high pitched voice, her lips still attached on his neck. Chuckling at the question, your boss answered with his raspy voice. “Darling, you know I would, but this dinner is important. My dad has obliged me to go there no matter what.“ “But babe~“ She whined as she pouted her lips.“I’ll see you tonight, sweetheart.“ Gaging at their nicknames for each other, you watched how your boss winked at his–most probably–one night stand as he reached out for his jacket, walking toward you with a smirk plastered on his lips. Rolling your eyes, you opened the door and stepped out of his office as you were looking down to your planer. When you felt his presence beside you, you started talking. “Chairman Kim wanted me to say that this dinner with Mr. Byun is very important. The last dinner you both had didn’t go well, I know. But please try to make sure to convince him to sign the contract, Sir. Otherwise your father will be mad at you.““You’re really talking too much, Y/N.“ Your boss huffed as he nodded to his driver once to affirm him that he could drive now. Taking another deep breath, you tried to calm your anger down. “This dinner is important, Mr. Kim. Please, take it seriously.“Clicking his tongue, he mumbled. “Whatever.“Looks like tonight was going to be a very stressful and long night.“But Sir, your father wants you to apologize!“Glaring at you, Taehyung hissed. “I’m not apologizing, Y/N! You, out of all people, should now that!“Placing your fingers on your temple, you whispered. “I know, Sir. Mr. Byun wasn’t behaving like a professional either but this is really important for your company. This is the best deal we’ve received for this project and everyone worked really hard on it. Please, do it for your workers, Sir..“You watched how his eyes softened after hearing your words. Tilting your head a little bit, you looked him expectantly in the eyes. “Hmm?“Breaking the eye contact, he nodded and mumbled softly. “Okay..“Smiling triumphantly, you leaned back in your chair. Checking the time on your watch, you confirmed. “It’s already 8 o’clock, he should be here any minute-“Just before you could end your sentence, Mr. Byun walked up to your table. Nudging your boss, you whispered. “He’s here.“Now you just had to do one thing; get the signature.“Taehyung, my friend, why aren’t you eating?“ Mr. Byun asked as he smirked at your boss.Placing a fake smile on his face, Taehyung answered. “I’m not hungry, Mr. Byun.““Why did you order food if you’re not hungry. Wait, why do I even care? You’re the one who’s going to pay.“ Mr. Byun laughed shamelessly.Turning your head to your left, you observerd Taehyung’s face, who, by the way, insisted you should sit beside him. His jaw was clenched and his hands were formed into fists, anger running through his whole body.The dinner wasn’t going as smoothly as you hoped it would, the sarky remarks that was leaving Mr. Byun’s mouth turning the atmosphere into an uncomfortable one. Every now and then, you turned your head to your boss and tried to make eye contact with him, making sure that he wouldn’t jump out of his chair and punch Mr. Byun right in the face. “My lovely Y/N, are you just eating a salad?“Hearing your name coming out of Mr. Byun’s mouth in such a way, your whole body tensed. “A-Ah, yes. I’m not that hungry,“ you said while forcing a smile.“Ahh, so you’re taking care of your body, hm?“ He asked again.“E-Ehm, yeah, yeah..““Believe me, sweetheart, I would do the same if I would have such a beautiful body like yours. I wish I had such a beautiful assistant like you. I would work 24/7 and never leave my office.“ he said as he observed your body up and down.You jumped slightly when you heard your boss slam his cutlery on the table. When you turned your head to him, you saw him glaring at the man sitting in front of you, the veins on his neck already visible. Taehyung was angry, very angry.You, on the other hand, didn’t know what to do. You couldn’t ruin this dinner, you had to think about your coworkers who had worked so hard on this project. They deserved the best. So, you took a deep breath and tried to calm down. Cutting his steak into pieces, Mr. Byun asked another inappropriate question. “Sweetheart, are you single?“Gripping your chair, you answered through your gritted teeth. “Yes, I am, Sir.“Don’t ruin this, Y/N! Don’t!“Hm, beautiful.“From the corner of your eye, you saw Taehyung lift his knife up as he glared at Mr. Byun. Immediately, your hand reached towards his hand, taking the knife away from him and giving him his glass filled with water. When you made sure that nothing sharp was near his side, you slightly leaned to him and hissed. “Don’t, Mr. Kim. Don’t forget why we’re here. Here, drink your water.“Thank God, Mr. Byun oblivious to all this since he was enjoying his steak.Looking up from his plate, the man sitting in front of you smiled at your boss. “So, Taehyung. I’m listening to you.“Turning his head to you, Taehyung watched how you nodded at him once. Gulping down, he started talking. “Our last dinner we had a few days ago didn’t went so well. I might have overreacted a little bit. I’m..“ he closed his eyes and tightened his fists, “I’m sorry, Mr. Byun.“Looking up at Mr. Byun, you saw him smiling triumphantly. “That’s how you should do it, my dear friend, Taehuyng.“Every word that was coming out of his most was making Taehyung’s blood boil without thinking about the consequences. Slowly, but surely, he was reaching his limit.You watched how the man sitting in front of you drank his last gulps of water, holding the glass almost in front of your face. “Could one of you bring me water?“Cursing inwardly at him, you forced another smile. “Ah, yes, of course.“ Searching for a waiter in the fancy restaurant, you turned your head from side to side. Taehyung, too, searched for one.Seeing that nobody was anywhere near, Mr. Byun spoke up. “Taehyung, your assistant should pour me some water. I would love to drink the water poured by such a beautiful woman.“Taehyung’s head snapped towards Mr. Byun in a blink of an eye, his jaw almost breaking from the way he was clenching it with such force.The moment you realized that your boss was ready to attack the shameless man, you intervened. Grabbing his arm, you stopped him immediately and spoke up. “I can do it!“Standing up, you searched for a carafe, walking toward Mr. Byun’s side of the table and pouring it in his glass. Placing the glass on the table, you took a step away from him, ready to sit back down on your chair, but stopped when you felt his hand on your wrist. Yanking you down beside him, Mr. Byun wrapped his arm around your shoulder and smiled at you. “Thank you, sweetheart. Now why don’t you just sit here for the rest of the night and accompany me, hm?“That was it, that was the last straw. Without being able to understand what was happening, you were yanked away from Mr. Byun and soon, your boss was punching the man in the face with his blood covered fists. Immediately, you rushed forward and tried to stop your boss, shouting in between his curses. “Mr. Kim! Sir, Please, don’t! Sir, stop! TAEHYUNG!“Hearing his name coming out of your mouth for the first time, Taehyung stopped immediately. Grabbing your wrist, he turned to Mr. Byun and hissed. “If I see you ever again, I will kill you!“With that, he walked out of the restaurant. “Mr. Kim! What do you think you’re doing?! What are we going to say to Chairman Kim now?! You’re father is going to-““He was literally harassing you, Y/N! I’ll kill that bastard!““Do you know how much I struggled to arrange this dinner, Sir?! I begged to so many people so that Mr. Byun would clear his schedule for tonight! You ruined everything!““What should I have done?! Should I have watched how that disrespectful bastard was harassing you in front of my eyes?!““For the sake of your company, yes, Sir! You know how important this project is-““NOTHING IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN YOU, Y/N!“ Frozen, you looked at his face. “W-What?“Taking a deep breath, Taehyung ran his fingers through his hair. “I can’t stand seeing him harass you like that! I don’t know why but whenever I see you near a man, I get angry and I have the urge to protect you!“Blinking a few times, you asked hesitantly. “Mr. Kim, what are you talking about-““I think I’m in love with you, Y/N.“Well, shit..        
                            xforeverweareyoungx                        FollowUnfollowbts scenariosbtsbangtanbts scenariobts taehyungtaehyungbts angstbts flufftaehyung angsttaehyung fluffbangtan boystaehyung scenariosbts vkim taehyungbts oneshottaehyung oneshotbts fanficsbts reactionsbts ceo aukpop angstkpop scenarios1,119 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            One In a Many        ¢єσ αυ!gєηяє:  AU, fluff, smut, drama, a tiny bit of angst, dirty talk, fuckboyish? ωσя∂ѕ: 6731ωяιттєη ву: Skylerѕυммαяу: The ever so handsome CEO Kim Taehyung have got every woman at the office under his heel, with those charming eyes and charisma it wasn’t hard for him - it came naturally. Though he could get any women that he wanted; his eyes were specifically set on you.
⁂
Icy sweat-drops ran down your back on the inside of the white blouse, probably making itself visible through the white colour. You were lucky your face wasn’t sweating - so you didn’t look greasy, but if you stayed for only some minutes more your entire body would be covered in an icy cold sweat. Is this what you’ve dreamed of? Well - the situation itself yes, but the way you ended up here? Not really what you thought would happen. With a gulp of spit mixed with vomit down your throat - you knew that whatever you tried to do, you wouldn’t get away from this situation.  Keep reading        
                            jiminsasscracck                        FollowUnfollowbtsadmin skybts scenariostaehyungkim taehyungtaehyung smutbts smutbts ceobts ceo aubts aesthetictaehyung autaehyung ceojiminsasscracckBTS vtaehyung fluffbts fluffthis took me 5 hours to write woooooow981 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
I swear BTS are real life K drama characters        
                            mimibtsghost                        FollowUnfollowbangtanbtsbangtan boysjinsugajhoperap monstervjiminjungkookbts memebts funnyjin ceotaehyungv farmer1,640 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            I’m Not That Easy Mr. Kim [27]        Words: 2.3kPt: 
 00 / 01 / 02 / 03 / 04 / 05 / 06 / 07 / 08 / 09 / 10 / 11 / 12 / 13 / 14 / 15 / 16 / 17 / 18 / 19 / 20 / 21 / 22 / 23 / 24 /
 25 / 26 / Originally posted by singulaerity———————————————–You sat in your car as you text Jin that you had just pulled into the parking garage of the huge building.  You climbed out of your car and no sooner you saw Jin running out of the automatic door to your side.  He greeted you as you did him.  Keep reading        
                            kpopisthereasonihavenolife                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts ceo aubts text aubts aubts ceobts textbts text ceo aubts kim taehyungbts taehyungbts vbts kim seokjinbts seokjimbts jinautextceoceo taehyungceo vseriestext seriesau seriestaehyung fictaehyung fanfictionv ficreaderfemale144 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Partnership || kth        Pairing: V X READERSummary: Your confidence has Taehyung feeling a certain sort of way.Genre: smut, ceo! auLength: 1.2kA/N: to that anon who said all i write is smut where the reader wears a skirt~who knows if there will be a part 2Originally posted by jimin-bts-trashsTaehyung should have known better, he should have learnt his lesson from messing around with the women in his company and having seen first hand the amount of effort his assistant put in to stop a scandal from happening.He shouldn’t have been staring at you the way he was, the way he always did when you were this commanding because he knew you could give him something none of those flings could, a lack of control. Keep reading        
                            guksthighs                        FollowUnfollowpartnershipkim taehyungtaehyung x readerkim taehyung x readertaehyung x readebts boss aubts ceo aubts imaginesbts imagines smutbts fluffbts angstbts reactionsbts fanficbts fake textsbts scenariosbts reactions smutbts taehyung imaginesbts kim taehyung imaginesbts vbts v imaginesbts taehyung x reader smutbts kim taehyungbts kim taehyung x readerbts x readerbts maknae linebts jungkookbts jiminbts hoseokbts hoseok x readerbts857 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
jumin, once he finally understands how to take a photo:   
                            bae-in-luv                        FollowUnfollowmystic messenger juminjumin hanjuminmm juminmystic messengermystic messenger yoosungmystic messenger vmystic messenger sevenmystic messenger jaeheemystic messenger zen707mystic messenger 707yoosungjaeheekang jaeheehyun ryuchoi saeyoungkim yoosungmysmeceo juminhan juminhappy birthday jumin801 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
BTS in suits         
                            btsreactionmemes                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts suitsbts requestbts ceobangtan sonyeondankim namjoonkim seokjinkim taehyungmin yoongijeon jungkookpark jiminjung hoseokvjinjiminjungkookrmjhopesugabts memesbts funnybts reactionsbts hotbtsreactionmemes784 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            our secret 01 | kth        main pairing : CEO!taehyung x employee!reader genre : CEO au, smut, fluffwarnings : a lot of fluff, dirty talk, pet names, marking (hickeys), oral sex (f receiving), fingering, unprotected sex (please be careful)  words : 3,794summary : Taehyung was your boss and the CEO of the company where you were working but he was also your boyfriend. It was unexpected but the feelings were intense and you decided to get together. But it was a secretauthor’s note : Hi loves, i feel very inspired those last days and i have been writing some things here and there. i really hope you like it, it’s mostly fluff with smut. i really enjoyed writing it.SERIE MASTERLIST | NEXTTaehyung walks pass your desk in the open space and he just looks at all his employees. You just try to ignore him because firstly, it is always awkward to look at your boss and secondly, you don’t want to look at him. If you would look at him, you know that you wouldn’t be able to stop looking at him. “Miss y/l/n, please come to my office.” His voice is deep but soft. You lock your computer and stand up before taking a small glace at him. You intertwine your fingers together to not let it show how stressed you are. You walk in his direction and you hear one of your colleagues wishing you good luck. Usually when you are called to Taehyung’s office, it’s for serious businesses or to be fired. Keep reading        
                            ephemeralkookie                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts imaginebts imagineskim taehyungbts vtaehyung imagineceo!taehyungkim taehyung smuttaehyung smuttaehyung fluffkim taehyung fluffbts smutbts flufftaehyung x readerbts x readernamjoonrmseokjinjinyoongisugahoseokjhopejiminjungkookbts one shotone shottaehyung one shotv x readerv imagine539 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            SILVER SPOON: Part 9 FINALE [Yoongi x Reader; Rom-com, fluff]        A girl who had to work hard every day of her life to rise from nothing, meets a man who was born with and given everything.A classic tale of what happens when a cold, uptight farm girl meets a playful, rebellious, easy-going city boy that was born with a silver spoon in his mouth.Summary: Having been born and raised in the country side, you have worked hard your entire life to make it to the big city. You eventually achieved your dream and now you have a wonderful paying job for a large company and you continue putting your 110% into everything you do. However, your perfect plan to climb to success through consistent effort and hard work becomes disarrayed with the arrival of your branch’s new rebellious and easy-going CEO, who never desired the position in the first place and has never truly worked hard a day in his life. Your job is on the line if he can’t be turned into a quality CEO within a year, but he has no intention of changing himself for anyone or letting you boss him around so easily. How will you work your way through this obstacle? Will you succeed in changing him or will he be the one that changes you?Yoongi x Reader (ft. Jimin &amp; VIXX’s Leo as side characters; some other BTS members show up too lol)Office auRomantic Comedy, FluffParts: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 (Finale)A/N: Ahh I can’t believe this series has come to an end! Thank you everyone for loving my light-hearted floof series &lt;3 Originally posted by kpoptrashandproud           "Oh crap. Holy shit. Crap.“ Yoongi
stumbled around his apartment frantically.             "Slept
through your alarm again, Sir?” Leo smirked at the doorway as he watched
his master scrambling around, chucking suit after suit out of his closet.            "Dammit
Leo, what should I wear?“ Yoongi hissed.             "This
is why you should’ve listened to Miss Y/N and chosen your clothes
beforehand.” Leo shook his head.            "That
is not helping right now, Leo. I need to look good today.“            Leo
rolled his eyes. "I am sure it is not exactly a need, but a want to look
good.”            Yoongi
pushed his head out of his closet to glare at Leo. “You really want to get
hit today, huh?”            Leo
chuckled. “I would find it quite enjoyable for you to attempt to hit
me.”            "Ugh
Y/N is going to kill me if she finds out I overslept again.“            "I
believe that’s too late.” Leo smiled mischievously.            "What?“
            Yoongi
clipped his pants on as he looked up to find Leo holding up his phone.             "Don’t
answer!” he panicked.            But
Leo smirked and swiped his hand to accept the call.            "Yoongi?
Hello?“ Your voice echoed. "Don’t tell me you’re still getting
dressed.”            "I
am…“ he huffed as he tried to button his shirt but ended up missing a
hole, so they were misaligned. ”…not.“            You
exhaled. "You think after two years, you’d be able to do SOMETHING on your
own.”            "Excuse
me?“ Yoongi argued. "I’ve been doing just fine.”            "How
many times have I had to call you on my way to work just to make sure you were
awake?“             "Almost
every day Miss Y/N.” Leo answered honestly, earning another glare from
Yoongi.            You
giggled. “Thank you Leo. Anyway, just throw something on like you do every
day.”            "Today’s
special! How I look is important.“             "Special?”
You chuckled. “Isn’t it just another meeting?”            "Yah.
This is a meeting with ALL of the CEOs in person, especially my arch nemesis, and
I’m heading it! I need to assert my dominance.“            "Oh…I’m
sure we’re all aware of who you are Yoongi. And I’m pretty sure that rivalry is
one-sided on your end.”            "You’re
distracting me!“ Yoongi complained.             "Alright,
but I called to say that I really liked your turtleneck under your suit look
~” you suggested. “If that’s what you’re wearing today, I’d very much
like a selfie.”            Yoongi
paused and immediately threw off the white button up he was struggling with and
grabbed one of his black turtlenecks.             "Yeah,
that’s exactly what I was putting on.“ he stated nonchalantly.            "Oh
really?” you said half-heartedly.             Leo
chuckled, already used to how well you were able to manipulate Yoongi despite
the distance.             "Anyways,
I have to go. Have a good day, love.“ You giggled.            "Wait!”
Yoongi whined.            "Hm?“            "You’re
really not coming again today?”             You
paused. “I love you, Yoongs.”            Yoongi
frowned. “I love you too.”             With
a sigh, he hurried to finish changing and made his way to the office.             It
had already been two long years since he dropped you off at that station. The
last time either of you saw each other– in person at least. You both still
made time to webcam, text, and call each other whenever possible. But it was
difficult to romance through the screen and the need to hold you and kiss you
was becoming more and more unbearable for him each day.            As
promised, you had graduated with the highest honors in your university, even
winning the spot of commencement speaker and making it to the news with your
eloquent and inspiring speech. The nation was astounded by the woman who came
from a humble background and ended up rising to the status of CEO, cultivating
one of the strongest branches in a world-renowned company. To Yoongi’s dismay,
you received a nomination to be a Director of the Board and became one of the
candidates for Chair along with him and one other.             But
while you accomplished a lot already, you still hadn’t been able to see each
other. The Chairman forbid both of you from attending meetings in person at the
same time, so more or less, one of you would be on webcam during conferences. There
were no traces or connections between you two, other than the fact that you
both had once worked together as boss and secretary. As the Chairman wanted,
you kept your relationship the utmost secret from the world, until you two were
able to stand on your own.             And
Yoongi had fulfilled his duty just as excellently as you did. Although he woke
up late almost every day, he still made it to work on time. And even without
you and Jimin, he continued to advance the Daegu branch without troubles,
winning many mergers and partnerships with large companies. He even expanded
his own franchise outside of the company, wanting to test his own skills
without the help of his family name and not being restricted to just what was
good for the company. It was a business run by himself, for himself. The Board
of Directors took notice of his progression and seriousness, keeping a close
eye on him for the past two years, since he was, in fact, the rightful heir to
the corporation.             Yoongi
pouted as he made his way to the conference room, nodding slightly to
acknowledge the people bowing deeply as he passed. He really hated how
unnecessary all of these rules were that his grandfather was still instating. You
both had kept your end of the promise already. Why couldn’t you see each other
yet?             He
grumbled as he fixed his suit in front of the conference room. After checking
that he had all his notes and files in hand, he took a deep breath and pushed
the door open. He was ready to do this. But what he saw as soon as he walked
in, he was not prepared for, and it froze him in his spot almost immediately.             You
grinned as everyone stood up respectfully when Yoongi arrived. Your eyes locked
with each other upon entrance and you saw him freeze in shock. You tried to
fight back your laughter at your successful surprise. You subtly gestured for
him to take his seat at the head of the table and he coughed to compose
himself.             "Please.
Have a seat.“ he stated amiably, but he couldn’t stop beaming brightly.            Jimin
elbowed you and leaned over to whisper. "Still can’t hide his feelings too
well when it comes to you, huh?”            You
giggled and shook your head. “I’m afraid not.”             "Well
regardless, it’s good to see everyone in the same room again.“ Jimin
smiled.             "Yeah,
it really is.” You glanced over at Yoongi proudly as he organized his
papers in front of him.             "Is
everyone here?“ Yoongi looked up and scanned the room.             "One
more person has yet to arrive, Mr. Min.”             "Ah.
I’m sure we can start without him.“ Yoongi stated curtly.            You
glanced at Jimin and Hoseok curiously.             "The
third person nominated to be the Chair and Yoongi’s sworn arch nemesis.”
Jimin whispered knowingly.            "Ah
that guy…he’s talked about it with me. But I didn’t think it was this
bad.“ You mentioned.            "He’s
top of his class too. Mature, wise, handsome.” Hoseok commented.            "But
not as handsome as me.“ Jimin interjected.            Hoseok
rolled his eyes.             "I
can’t seem to remember the man’s name. I don’t think Yoongi ever mentioned it.”
You pondered.             "Oh
it’s –“            "Shall
we get started?” Yoongi smirked. “Those who are running late can
catch up in the minutes.”            "My
apologies, Mr. Min.“ A new voice echoed into the room.             Yoongi
groaned, while your eyes widened when a familiarly tall figure entered the
room.             "Mr.
Kim.” Yoongi greeted bitterly. “Nice of you to finally join us.”             "I
figured everyone would need a bit of caffeine for this long meeting.“ The
man grinned, exposing his deeply dimpled cheeks, as he held up two large bags of
packed coffee.             "One
point for Mr. Kim.” Hoseok cackled under his breath, causing Jimin to
snicker with him.             "Y/N.“
The man bowed lightly as he handed you a cup of coffee. "Long time no
see.”            You
grinned and accepted it. “You too… Namjoon.”            "Mr.
Min’s glaring at you, Y/N.“ Jimin whispered, warningly.            "No,
that’s his normal face. Don’t worry.” You waved your hand as you continued
to stare at Namjoon.            "Is
the seat next to you taken?“ Namjoon questioned.            You
shook your head. "It’s for you. But be careful sitting down.”            Namjoon
chuckled. “You might have to hold my chair so it doesn’t spin out from
underneath me.”             You
giggled knowingly, and you suddenly heard a loud cough from the front of the
room. You and Namjoon glanced at each other amused then both turned your
attention towards Yoongi.             "Shall
we get started?“ Yoongi stated through gritted teeth, staring daggers at
you.             You
bit your lip to fight back your amusement and looked down at your notes to
avoid his lingering eyes.             "Let’s
do it, Mr. Min!” Jimin cheered, earning a scolding nudge from Hoseok.             The
meeting progressed smoothly. You were extremely impressed by how Yoongi handled
it. He passed out outlines for everyone at the beginning in order to direct the
flow of conversation and to make sure every important topic was discussed
thoroughly. You couldn’t help but smile proudly as you watched him leading the
conference confidently and knowledgeably, like a true CEO.            Jimin
nudged you. “Stop making those googly eyes, gosh.”             You
glared at him. “I am not making googly eyes.”            "This
is what your face is telling me you’re thinking: ‘Oh my gosh. He’s so attractive. He’s so dreamy. He’s so manly. He’s
come so far, I’m so proud. I’m in love all over again.’“ he teased.             You
reached over and pinched Jimin’s cheeks harshly. "And you’re still
annoying, Park Jimin.”            Hoseok
snorted as he continued writing down notes.            "Y/N.
Jimin.“ Yoongi called out.            You
two sat up straight, embarrassed at being caught.             "Do
you have anything else you wish to discuss?” Yoongi raised an eyebrow at
you challengingly.            You
smirked. “Why yes, Mr. Min. I have a few things I want to bring up to the
table.”            "Here
we go.“ Jimin muttered and you kicked him under the table as you took out
your own handouts and charts to show off.             After
the meeting ended, the CEOs mingled around for a few minutes before making
their way to the complimentary luncheon. Some people approached Yoongi and
Namjoon to speak to them directly and introduce themselves to the possible
Chairs of the company.             "Even
though you’re nominated, people don’t believe you’ll take the Chairwoman
position.” Jimin shrugged as he sat on the table nonchalantly. “You
should just take it and get a big laugh at everyone’s face.”            You
chuckled. “I’d rather not just sit on my butt all day and not do
much.”            Jimin
snorted. “Don’t let your future Gramps hear you say that.”            "What
have you been up to? You seem to have been busy the past year.“ You
changed the subject.             Hoseok
shook his head. "Yes, very busy.”            "Oh
no.“ You rolled your eyes. "I’m afraid to ask what he was busy
with…or with who more so.”             "Hey!“
Jimin huffed. "It’s not bad! Well it was bad at first, but I’ll have you
know that I’m finally in a stable relationship.”            You
gawked at him. “Are you serious?”            You
glanced at Hoseok for confirmation.            "I’m
afraid so.“ Hoseok laughed with a light shrug. "It was a surprise to
me too.”             "Oh
my gosh! That’s great! Is it her? Your used-to-be-fake-girlfriend that I knew
you had feelings for??“ You gushed.            "Yes.
That’s exactly the one.” Hoseok shook his head.             Jimin
blushed.             "How
did it happen?“ You breathed. "Wow, I missed so much.”            Jimin
rubbed the back of his neck sheepishly. “It’s a pretty long story.”             "Well,
no matter. The result is what’s important. I can’t believe you’re taken.“
You clapped. "We all have to get together one day with our significant
others. We’ll come to you guys in Seoul for the next meeting!”             "Sounds
perfect.“ Jimin smiled.             "And
congrats to you too, Hoseok. I heard from the grapevine about you and Silver
getting together.” You grabbed Hoseok’s and Jimin’s hands warmly.
“I’m so happy for you two.”            "Yah,
yah, yah.“ Yoongi approached you three, a warning tone in his voice.             You
rolled your eyes and let go of their hands. The other two chuckled.            "Is
this the thanks I get for helping you out, Jimin?”             Jimin
laughed, “She grabbed me, Mr. Min. I’m innocent. I would never betray you,
but this one is trouble. You have to keep an eye on her.”             You
shoved Jimin while chuckling.             "I
know she is.“ Yoongi glanced at you endearingly.            Jimin
shivered and pushed Hoseok to the side. "Okay, let’s go before they jump
each other right here.”            "That’s
something YOU would do, Jimin.“ Hoseok rolled his eyes.             "Read
the situation, Hoseok.” Jimin hissed then bowed to you and Yoongi.
“Please have lots of beautiful children, Mr. &amp; Mrs. Min.”            "YOU
read the situation!“ Hoseok scolded, shaking Jimin angrily as the other
giggled mischievously.            You
and Yoongi blushed and smiled at each other. But before either of you could say
anything, another person approached you two.            "Mr.
Min. Y/N.”             Yoongi’s
face immediately turned sour. “Namjoon.”            "The
meeting was handled really well. You have my sincerest compliments.“
Namjoon bowed.            "I’m
glad you think so, but I don’t need your compliments to know I did a good
job.”             "Mr.
Min!“ You scolded.            "It’s
alright, Y/N. This is how we converse.” Namjoon chuckled. “It’s
refreshing.”             Yoongi
scowled at his good natured mentality.“Well, why are you two so
chummy?”             "Oh.“
You smiled. "Remember the traveler that Tae took in?”            "The
only one who solved your super hard problem that you gave to people who wanted to date you?“ Yoongi eyed Namjoon skeptically.            "More
or less.” You laughed. “That was Namjoon.”            Namjoon
grinned brightly.            "Wooo.“
Yoongi stated flatly.             "How
did I not know you worked here?” You turned your attention back to the
tall man, ignoring your boyfriend’s gloomy behavior.            "I
was adapting to the new responsibilities for a while and wanted to focus on my
internal branch affairs before dealing with external ones. So I only went to a handful
of meetings. What about you?! I had no idea you worked here too! When I saw
your speech on the news, I was stunned. Then I knew our paths would cross soon
enough.“ Namjoon grinned.             Yoongi
looked at the two of you with apparent disgust.             "Well,
shall we go to the complimentary lunch?” Namjoon gestured.            "Let’s.“
You smiled as you followed him to the door, enjoying taunting Yoongi.             "Y/N.”
Yoongi called dangerously.             Namjoon
glanced between the two of you and the situation seemed to dawn on him.
“Ahh, I’ll go on ahead then.”            You
chuckled gratefully and he winked at you before shutting the door behind him.             "CEO
Min.“ you turned to him and bowed coyly.             "Don’t
CEO Min me.” He growled as he took three strides towards you and slammed
his lips against yours hungrily.            You
cupped his face as his hands settled onto your waist. It was so wonderful,
finally being able to touch him after so long.             You
laughed as you broke the kiss, “I missed you too.”             He grabbed
your hand and led you to his chair. Gently, he sat you on his lap as you played
with his hair gently.            "I
can’t believe you were flirting with my arch nemesis.“ He sulked.            You
snorted. "Why is Namjoon your arch nemesis? Cause of the Chairman
position?”            "In
more ways than that.“ Yoongi grumbled.            You
chuckled and shook your head. "As I said, I’m sure it’s a one-sided
rivalry.”            "It
isn’t! That man just doesn’t show his competitiveness outwardly. I can sense
it.“            "Well
it sounds like you’re good friends then.”            "We’re
not.“            You
grinned but yielded, "Of course.”            "Did
you hear about the transfer papers?“ he hummed. "I figured if my
grandfather was still trying to keep us apart, I had to take matters into my own
hands.”            "I
did.“             "Did
you accept?”            "Mmm
I still have to think about it.“ you grinned playfully.             "Why?” he drummed impatiently on
your leg.             "Because
I can’t jump too enthusiastically at the offer, I have to play hard to
get.“             "With
your boyfriend…” he answered flatly, as if you were doing the stupidest
thing in the world.            "With
my boss.“ you whispered as you batted your eyelashes at him. "I have
to see how much he wants and values me.”            Yoongi’s
lips curled up mischievously as he tightened his grip around your waist,
“Shall I show you how much I want you?”            You
laughed and smacked his chest at his insinuation. “Yoongi.”             His
eyes twinkled happily at finally having you in his arms and hearing your voice
in person.             "Marry
me.“ he whispered and you inhaled sharply at the suddenness of the
request.             "What?
Yoongi –”            "That’s
how much I want you.“ he smiled warmly as he leaned his head comfortably
on your chest. "I want to see you every day. I want to show you that I can
make you proud and that I can make you happy.”             "But
still –“            "Well
if you won’t marry me yet, accept the transfer.” he smirked.             You
chuckled and rolled your eyes at his ultimatum. “I’m pretty sure this is
abusing your power.”             "You’re
abusing my love for you.“ he pouted cutely. "I just want you to be
where I can see you, where I can be with you.”             You
laughed as you squeezed his cheeks. “I was going to accept it anyway. I
just need to act like I was in contemplation. I still have pride in my branch,
you know. It’s like my child.”            He
grinned then scrunched his face.            "Fine.
I’ll wait then.“            You
pecked his lips lightly. "Thank you.”            "Where
are you staying tonight?“ he questioned.            "Mmm
I was hoping I still had a room at a certain apartment complex.” You
grinned.             Yoongi
chuckled. “I was hoping you’d say that.”             Later
that day, you found yourself curled up in Yoongi’s couch once again. He lay on
your lap, relaxing while you carded your fingers through his hair.            "This
isn’t a dream, right?“ he exhaled, his eyes still closed.            You
tugged at his hair causing him to wince and scream in pain.           "Ah! Gosh! Okay!
It’s not a dream. Sheesh. I need all my hair for goodness sake!”            "Maybe
you should stop dye-ing it so often, hm?“ You hummed. "It looks like
you infected Jimin with your habit.”            Yoongi
grinned. “He’s the one that asked me to dye it with him.”             "Oh
right, what happened between you two? You helped him out or something?“            "Mmm
at first, I asked him for a favor for a week or two, since the influx of work
increased in the Daegu branch. But then, he ended up begging me to have him stay
longer at the branch, due to a woman problem.”             "Ah
maybe his girlfriend.“            "He
looked like hell, Y/N.” Yoongi snorted. “I don’t exactly know what
happened, but he was so miserable when he first arrived. Then he spontaneously
asked me to take him to where I get my hair dyed because he needed a
change.”             "Wow.
Seems like you two do actually get along.“ You giggled.             "Well
he’s no longer a threat since he’s taken.” he shrugged. “But it
wasn’t for free, I had to ask Jimin for a favor too.”            "What
favor?“            "It’s
a secret.” Yoongi cackled.            "Then
why mention it?? You’re so annoying!“ You shook him, but gently, he
grabbed your hands and opened his eyes to look up at you intently.            You
stared at him questioningly, feeling an odd sort of intensity from his look.             "Yoongi?”            He
smiled and reached up to stroke your cheek.             "Move
in with me.“             Your
heart flipped over inside your chest.             "Live
with me here in the city. Once you accept the transfer, I want to move in
together.”             You
blushed. You were ecstatic, truly. You wanted nothing more than to say yes. You
wanted nothing more than to see Yoongi first thing in the morning and last
thing at night, but…            "Yoongi,
I’m worried about my family. My little sisters, Tae, Jin.“            He
chuckled lightly. "I told you not to worry about them, didn’t I? I took
care of them while you were away.”            You
furrowed your brows angrily. “Speaking of which, none of them will tell me
what they’ve been up to! I know you helped my sister cover the rest of her
university tuition because I bribed it out of her! And I heard Jin disappeared
to no one knows where suddenly but he keeps messaging that he’s fine? And Tae? I’ve been getting e-mails but I have
no idea what he’s doing or where?”             Yoongi’s
lips curled up.            “Hyung?” Tae called as he found
Yoongi sitting on the couch in the middle of the night, the place where you
used to sleep.             Yoongi smiled sadly.             "You miss her, huh?“ Tae
smiled as he sat beside him.            "Yeah, a lot.”             "It’s okay, hyung. This is her
dream. It’s no one’s fault.“ Tae squeezed Yoongi’s hand."She decided
it herself.”             Yoongi glanced at the younger,
“You know, you matured a bit.”             Tae grinned. “When I think of
how hard Y/N has been working for us and for herself, it makes me wonder if
I’ll ever get close to my dream like she has.”            Yoongi stared at Tae, “Do you
still want to go to Seoul, Tae?”            Tae smiled and nodded. “Very
much.”            "Good.“ Yoongi’s grin
widened. "Because there’s an opening for a part-time job at one of the top
vet hospitals there, and I’ve already put in a good word for you since I have a
connection in there. And they’d like you to come in for an interview
soon.”            Tae gasped, his eyes widening.
“What? Really?”            Yoongi laughed and nodded.
“Yes, really.”            "Oh my gosh, hyung!“ Tae
flung his arms around Yoongi excitedly. "Seriously? I have a chance to be
a vet in Seoul??”             "I wrote you a stunning
recommendation letter and asked your boss at your current hospital to do so
too. It’s all up to you now.“            Tae’s eyes watered happily.
"Thank you, hyung. I don’t how to thank you.”             "While you’re there, would you
like to make some cash on the side?“ Yoongi’s lips curled up.            "Huh?” Tae blinked.            "I want to hire you to keep an
eye on the new business I’m starting up in Seoul.“             "Me?”            Yoongi nodded. “I trust you. Plus
I think you’ll like the place. It won’t be a boring job. You’ll get to meet all
sorts of people, and there’ll be music and performances every day. What do you
think?”            "Yes!“ Tae beamed.
"I’ll help you out, hyung. Of course I’ll help!”            Yoongi
felt a tear drop fall onto his face from yours and he sat up from your lap carefully.
            "Hey.“
he whispered softly, trying to get you to lift your face.            You
shook your head and cried. "I-I don’t know how to thank you, Yoongi. You
didn’t have to. I have to pay you back for my sister’s tuition and for Tae–”            Yoongi
kissed you and smiled. “They’re my family too. You don’t need to do
that.”            You
sniffled and wiped your tears.             "But
if you do want to do something for me,“ he smirked as he leaned closer to
you. "I could think of a few things I’d like you to do for me.”            You
chuckled, “Is one of them moving in with you?”            Yoongi
nodded lightly, “But there are a few other things you could do for me right now.”            "Come
here then, Min Yoongi.“ You pulled him towards you by gripping his
turtleneck and locked lips with him happily.             "I
was thinking cooking for me,” he grinned cheekily. “Didn’t know you were so dirty
minded, Y/N.”            You
rolled your eyes and tried to shove him away playfully, but he resisted,
climbing over you and kissing you sweetly.             "I
missed you, Farm Girl.“            "I
missed you too, Silver Spoon.”            "Let’s
work hard together from now on, hm?“            You
grinned. "I don’t know about you, but I’ve been working hard all my
life.”             Months
later, Jimin grinned as he scrolled through the news on his phone, as he did
every morning. But today, instead of boring articles about stock markets, and
businesses crashing, pictures of you and Yoongi were scattered throughout every
news site and all over his social media. The headline read “BREAKING NEWS:
DAEGU ROYALTY, MIN YOONGI, DATING DAEGU’S VERY OWN CINDERELLA, Y/N!”. He
chuckled as he scanned through the pictures of you two boldly holding hands on
the street, openly dating, beaming at each other. He plugged one earphone in
and played the news video.             “Women all over the world are gushing
over the news. Folks, it is real! This has never happened before in the history
of the nation. No longer is it just a fairytale, but it’s become reality.
Someone from humble birth – a farm girl from the Daegu countryside to be
exact– has in fact, snatched herself a man of wealth and status. And it isn’t
just recently either, the couple has in fact been together for almost three
years! Talk about a BIG surprise!             While there are mixed opinions about
this unprecedented relationship, there isn’t much to be said about why these
two can’t be together. She certainly has proven herself to be worthy of such a
status and has shown the world that no matter where you come from, you can be
whoever you want to be through hard work. Alternatively, CEO Min Yoongi has
stated that he has never intended to date or marry for wealth, but for
happiness and love.” The reporter spoke.            Then Yoongi
appeared on the screen, “I have
money already, and I have a steady job so I’ll be gaining more. Why do I need
to marry someone for even more money? I think that’s just ridiculous. There are
more important things in relationships and in life.”            Once
again, the reported appeared and continued,
“When we asked the Chairman, CEO Min’s grandfather, about his opinion on the
matter, he also expressed his support and approval for this relationship. Many
of the wealthy are absolutely shaken up, but for all of us normal folks, it is
a sliver of hope to break down the economic barriers. The couple has accepted
many exclusive interviews and has stated that all of their broadcasting fees
will be donated to an organization. What an inspiration! We’ll be keeping
everyone updated on this truly modern day fairytale so stay tuned.”            Jimin
snorted. “But I was the Fairy Godmother. Do I not get thanks too?
Ungrateful friends.”             "Oh?
I know her!“ Jimin’s girlfriend appeared behind the counter, peeking at
his phone.            "Well,
yeah. She’s all over the news.”            "No.
Look.“ she pointed at a picture on the wall.             Jimin’s
eyes widened. "What’s she doing there?”            She
chuckled, “She owns this coffee franchise. You’ve been going here every
day and you didn’t know about it at all?”             Jimin
cracked up, incredulously. “That girl is truly unbelievable.”             "Looks
like something good happened?“ His girlfriend questioned curiously, as she
handed him his usual three cups of coffee.             He
nodded. "Yes, something wonderful happened.”            "What
did?“            Jimin
beckoned her to come closer. His girlfriend leaned over, believing he was going
to whisper it to her, but instead he kissed her cheek sweetly.             "Chims!
I’m at work!” she huffed and glanced around worriedly.            Jimin
grinned cheekily.             "Hope
happened, babe.“ His face softened. "Hope for the future.”             "What’re
you writing now?“ Yoongi peeked at what you were doing, resting his chin
on your shoulder cutely. "We need to sleep early for our thousandth interview, and the
bed is cold without you.”            "I’ll
be in soon. I just want to finish this bit.“ You grinned. "I’m
sending in a story for publishing.”            "Without
telling me?“ Yoongi huffed and he squeezed himself onto your lap.
"Let me read! Is it an autobiography?”            "Mmm…“
Your lips curled up as you wrapped your arms around his stomach warmly as he
scrolled through your document. "In a way.”            Yoongi
leaned back onto you and covered your hands with his. “What is it
about?”            "A
Silver Spoon falling in love with a Farm Girl.“            Yoongi
chuckled as he played with your fingers.            "I
think it was the Farm Girl who fell in love with the Silver Spoon though.”
            "No,
definitely not.“ You leaned your head against his shoulder. "She had
to work hard to earn a living. She didn’t have much time for love. In the
meantime, he had everything so he was able to flirt and seduce her freely.”
            Yoongi
smiled gently. “No…he didn’t have everything. In fact, he actually had
nothing back then.”            "Oh?“
You glanced up at him playfully. "So…does he have everything now?”            Yoongi
grinned as he fiddled with the ring on your fourth finger.             "Yes…
he truly has everything now.“             "Shall
I spoil the ending?” You whispered teasingly.            Yoongi
nodded, his eyes twinkling with unspoken happiness.             You
giggled and held your left hand up next to his, showing off your matching rings.
            "The
Farm Girl has everything now too.“         
                            happy-meo                        FollowUnfollowthe endT_TThank you everyone for your loveThanks for enjoying the series!Silver Spoonhappy-meoyoongi x reader fanficsuga x reader fanficyoongisugamin yoongijiminpark jiminkim taehyungjintaevseokjinkim seokjinbts ceo aubts office aubts rom combts fluffbtsbangtanbangtan boysbangtan ficsbts ficsbts fanficsbts romance715 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
6I’m Not That Easy Mr. Kim: 00 / BTS: CEO Au - Kim Taehyung        
                            kpopisthereasonihavenolife                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts vbts taehyungbts kim taehyungbts auceo vceo taehyungtaehyung aubts ceo aubts jinbts sugabts jhopebts rmbts jiminbts jungkookbts seokjinbts yoongibts hobibts hoseokbts namjoonbts texttext storybts text storytextau103 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
2god this was so much funnier in my head        
                            artttho                        FollowUnfollowi had two whole rows of peeps todayrhys the ceorhys the company manrhys tftbltftbljackjack tftblhandsome jacktales from the borderlandsborderlandsaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaamy art&lt;333!!!idk what else to tag this as so:V685 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            our secret (masterlist) | kth        main pairing : CEO!taehyung x employee!reader genre : CEO au, smut, fluffwarnings : a lot of fluff, dirty talk, pet names, marking (hickeys), oral sex (f &amp; m receiving), fingering, unprotected sex (please be careful)  summary : Taehyung was your boss and the CEO of the company where you were working but he was also your boyfriend. It was unexpected but the feelings were intense and you decided to get together. But it was a secretauthor’s note : so this was supposed to be a simple one shot but i changed it into a fanfic and i am really excited to share all my ideas with you ! let me know if you want to be added to the tag list! send a message, reply to this post, or send an ask. love you all ! MOODBOARD - Posted August 16th 2020CHAPTER ONE - Posted June 1st 2020 CHAPTER TWO - Posted June 6th 2020CHAPTER THREE - Posted June 7th 2020CHAPTER FOUR - Posted June 14th 2020CHAPTER FIVE - Posted June 21th 2020CHAPTER SIX - Posted June 27th 2020CHAPTER SEVEN - Posted June 28th 2020EPILOGUE - Posted July 5th 2020Tag list : @wataemelonz​         
                            ephemeralkookie                        FollowUnfollowbtsbts fanficbts fanfictionbts imaginebts imagineskim taehyungbts vtaehyung imagineceo!taehyungkim taehyung smuttaehyung smuttaehyung fluffkim taehyung fluffbts smutbts flufftaehyung x readerbts x readernamjoonrmseokjinjinhoseokjhopejiminjungkookbts one shotone shottaehyung one shotv x readerv imagine538 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            Love Me Please | Pt. 2        Pairing: Taehyung x ReaderGenre: CEO!AU | Angst/FluffWord Count: 1307Author’s Note: This part might be boring for the most of you but I had to write it so you all can understand all the other upcoming parts. Let me know what you think about it and again, thank you for all the love you’ve shown the first part. &lt;3 (Gif credit)↠ Masterlist | ↠ Ask↠ Part 1 Besides being one of the most well known businessman of Korea, Kim Taehyung was also known as the womanizer and most flirtatious man amongst all the CEO’s in Korea. He never was the type of person to have feelings for anybody, let alone fall in love and have a serious relationship with anyone. Having been working as his personal assistant for the past three years, you’ve witnessed quite a few times how women with bloodshot eyes came to his company, asking for him desperately and leaving their phone number at your desk so that he could call them back. Sadly, none of them knew that whenever you gave him the piece of paper with the digits written on it, they never were saved in his contact list but instead landed in the trash bin, deep down where he wouldn’t see them ever again. So when you heard him say the words ‘I think I’m in love with you, Y/N..‘, you didn’t believe one bit of the sentence. Because this was Kim Taehyung, and you definitely were not getting fooled by him so easily.“I think I’m in love with you, Y/N.“Blinking a few times, you observed his face without saying anything. Was this the way he lied to all the other women? You wondered in which rank you were among the women who had heard those words? 11th? Maybe 21st? It wasn’t even that long ago when you heard him whisper those words to the girl next to him as he walked into his office, smirking at you as he strode by your desk. How could he say such meaningful words so easily? Was he really that careless?Shaking your head from side to side, you tried to avoid all the questions flying inside your head. Crossing your arms in front of your chest, you took a few steps forward and stood only a few inches away from him. Getting on your tiptoes, you neared your lips to his ear and whispered confidently. “I won’t fall for your little games, Mr. Kim. Go find someone else and let me do my job in peace, hm?“Stepping away from him, you met his eyes again. The moment you saw his expression, you sucked a breath. Was that hurt and disappointment plastered on his face? No, it couldn’t be. This was Kim Taehyung. He would never, ever feel sad because of a woman. The only explanation you could form in your head was that it must be his pride which you just damaged with your words. Not everyone can handle a rejection, right? And most definitely not the man standing in front of you.You watched how the hurt expression on his face changed into a solemn one, his fingers running through his hair with such force you thought he was going to rip his hair out any minute from now. Looking into your eyes deeply for a few more seconds, he shook his head from side to side and turned around, walking towards the exit of the fancy restaurant without saying anything. Realizing that he was really leaving without getting the sign for the contract from Mr. Byun, you followed him immediately and grabbed his arm, standing in front of him in order to block his way. “Listen, Sir. Mr. Byun might leave in a few minutes. If you want, we can walk in and talk with him again-““Do you really think that I’m that shameless, Y/N? Do you really think that I will go in there and apologize to that bastard even though he was harassing you just minutes ago? Am I really that low in your eyes?“Shocked at his words, you shook your head. “N-No, Sir, that’s not what I meant. But this project is really important for you and-“Running his fingers for the second time trough his hair, he hissed. “Fuck the project, Y/N! I really thought that you would have known in these three years what type of a person I am. I would never, ever, sell my honor for money. Never. I’m not that low, Y/N.““I have a honor too, Mr. Kim. You’re thinking very wrong of me. I’ve been working since middle school, Sir. This is not my first job. I’ve washed dishes, I’ve cleaned houses. My friends my age came to the restaurant I worked at. While they were making fun of me, I served them everything they wanted. Yes, I admit. Back then, I was ashamed but at the end I was the only one who graduated from collage. I was able to come this far because I worked hard without listening to anyone. And believe me, this is not the first time something like this happened to me. I’m old enough to handle everything by myself like I’ve done for my whole life.“Laughing sarcastically, Taehyung shoved his hands into his pockets. “What a beautiful story, I’m about to cry, Y/N, really. ‘I would do anything for my career, all the men out there can harass me as much as they want, I don’t care.‘ Is that what you’re trying to tell me, Y/N?“You were speechless. Did he really thing that you were so low? Closing your eyes, you took a deep breath and hissed. “What did you just say?“He continued without hesitation. “Since you’ve been working so hard for your career since you were a little kid, did you always ignore all the harassment you’ve been receiving? Are you really that low and worthless, Y/N? Since you’ve come so far in your life, does that mean that you were willing to allow all the men to touch you and harass you-“Slap.Clenching his fists beside his frame, Taehyung gritted his teeth an turned his face back to you. “How dare you slap me-“Before he could end his sentence, he was met with your watery eyes and a tear that was rolling down your face. Pointing to the restaurant, you continued speaking. “All those things I’ve experienced in there, which believe me no women in this world would like to ever experience, I experienced because of you, Mr. Kim. Why do you think am I here? Whose mistakes am I trying to make better, Mr. Kim? Whose career and well-being do I think about, Mr. Kim, hm?!“ you shouted as tears were rolling down your face.Realizing his mistake, Taehyung tried to calm you down. “Stop shouting, Y/N. Everybody is looking at us.““Do you think I care?,“ you said as you laughed sarcastically. “I’m low enough to let people touch me for my career, why should I mind people looking at me, hm?!““Y/N-“ he took a step forward but you stepped away immediately.“Look, Mr. Kim! You can think of yourself as the most powerful, most smart and most rightful person on the planet. You can think that you can hurt people with your ego which is higher than the ceiling-““Y/N-““SHUT UP! From now on I am speaking and you’re going to listen to me! The only reason why we experienced something like that and why I had to stay silent in there is your fault, Taehyung!“You watched how Taehyung’s head snapped up immediately at your words. He looked shocked and speechless. “W-What? D-Does that mean that you’ve endured everything for m-me?“Wiping your tears away, you stood upright and took a deep breath. “I give up, Mr. Kim. I don’t want to do this anymore.“Reaching forward, he tried to hold your wrists. “Y/N, w-what are you talking about-““I quit.“        
                            xforeverweareyoungx                        FollowUnfollowbts scenariosbtsbangtanbts scenariobts taehyungtaehyungbts angstbts flufftaehyung angsttaehyung fluffbangtan boystaehyung scenariosbts vkim taehyungbts seriesbts fanficsbts reactionsbts ceo aukpop angstkpop scenarios653 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
            I’m Not That Easy Mr. Kim [18]        Words: 1.5kPt: 
0 / 01 / 02 / 03 / 04 / 05 / 06 / 07 / 08 / 09 / 10 / 11 / 12 / 13 / 14 / 15 / 16 / 17 / Originally posted by chimtae—————————————–You had told Taehyung the day that you would be leaving for your old countryside you lived in with your grandmother and the morning of you were all packed up, dressed in shorts, half tucked in shirt and your pull along bag. You had called the closest Inn, that was still about a 40 minute train ride from the cemetery, and notified them of your arrival. You were stepping out of your door to drive to the station for your train ride there, when Taehyung had seen you.  You had just locked your door when you felt your bag being rolled out of your light grip. You looked up to see who was trying to take your bag, but seeing Taehyung you were a bit surprised.  You had told him to meet you at the station.  He had no problem with taking a train oddly.   Keep reading        
                            kpopisthereasonihavenolife                        FollowUnfollowya'll this aint proof readso read at your riski've been so busy i can't proof read right nowgimme tiem my darlingsbts taehyungbts kim taehyungkim taehyungtaehyungtaehyung auvv aubtsautext aubts text aubts auceo taehyungceo vtaehyung fictextseriesreaderfemaleceobts kim seokjinbts jinjinkim seokjinbts seokjintae91 notesLoading...Show more notesReblog     
© Tumblr, Inc.HelpAboutAppsDevelopersThemesJobs
    LegalTermsCopyright
            Privacy          EnglishDeutschFrançaisItaliano日本語TürkçeEspañolPусскийPolskiPortuguês (PT)Português (BR)Nederlands한국어简体中文繁體中文 (台灣)繁體中文 (香港)Bahasa Indonesiaहिंदी
