        Skip to Content
              Permissions
              Logos and Trademarks
              Entertainment and Media
              Sponsorship and Partners
              Products
              Support and FAQ
            Initiative
                Permissions
                Logos and Trademarks
                Entertainment and Media
                Sponsorship and Partners
                Products
                Support and FAQ
      Logos and Trademarks
      First things first: you’ll need our permission to use our logos or trademarks.
      We receive a lot of requests from people who want to add a touch of Google to their sites. If you’re working with us on a project or initiative, please work with your Google contact to coordinate third-party marketing permissions.
Although we’d like to accommodate all the requests we receive, we need to make sure our brand is used in the right way. So we turn down many requests because sites imply Google is endorsing them, or because they violate our Terms and Conditions.
    Usage
    If you’ve received permission to use our logo, follow these guidelines.
          Full-color logo on white
          We’ll usually ask you to use the full-color version of our logo on a white background.
          Clear space
          The amount of clear space around our logo should be equal to or greater than the height of the “G” in Google.
          Minimum size
          The minimum size for screen application of our logo is 24 dp in height. In print, it’s 0.125 in/3.1 mm in height.
    Incorrect usage
    To maintain consistency of our logo, never do any of the following.
            Don’t use an out-of-date version of the logo.
            Don’t change the Google colors.
            Don’t modify the logo in any way, such as adding visual effects, angling, or rotating.
            Don’t use the logo in a phrase or sentence.
            Don’t lock up the Google logo with your own logo.
            Don’t mimic any Google branding in non-Google materials.
              Google G
              Third parties are not permitted to use the Google G. It’s reserved for Google products and marketing materials.
              Google Doodles
              Google Doodles are very special to us, and we like to limit the use of them to our homepage. Thus we cannot allow third parties to use them.
              Merchandise
              Google typically does not allow third-party use of our logo or brand features to create paraphernalia or swag. An option that may be of interest to you is the Google Merchandise Store where you’ll find a variety of Google-branded items available for purchase.
          Legal and trademarks
          The  Trademarks List and Logos List set out an illustrative, non-exhaustive list of trademarks owned by Google LLC, as well as suggested generic terms for those products. Brand features can be used only pursuant to these guidelines, our Terms and Conditions, and for the specific purposes for which Google has given permission. Please see our rules for proper usage.
          When using the Google logo:
          We ask that you put one of the following taglines at the bottom of the page etc.:
©2018 Google LLC All rights reserved. Google and the Google logo are registered trademarks of Google LLC.
©2018 Google LLC All rights reserved. [Insert Trademark] is a trademark of Google LLC.
          When using a Google product screenshot or data:
          We ask that you put the following tagline beneath any image featuring a Google product screenshot or data:
©2018 Google LLC, used with permission. Google and the Google logo are registered trademarks of Google LLC.
          If you’ve found a website that uses a Google trademark inappropriately:
          We’d like to hear about it. Report inappropriate use of a Google trademark.
          Privacy
          Terms
          About Google
          Google Products
