     Skip to Main Content
                                Profile
                    xboyz    
                    Grant Access
                    Subscribe
                    Track Account
                    Private Message
                        Gift Paid Account
            xboyz's Journal
      Free AccountCreated on 2017-04-14 03:40:02 (#3070171), last updated 2017-04-16 (181 weeks ago)2 comments received, 0 comments posted  5 Journal Entries, 3 Tags, 0 Memories, 14 Icons UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:xboyzBirthdate:Jul 1  
                 Mini Bio
                Jonothon Evan Starsmore, Junior ("JJ") [PB: Ryan Potter]Father: Jonothon Evan Starsmore, Marvel 616Mother: Momoko Akatsutsumi, Powerpuff Girls Z---He's so normal it scares his dad.Born and raised primarily in Marvel 616. JJ has knowledge of Fandom High and portal travel and other universes, etc. Attended public school until junior high, then Jean Grey Academy (or whatever it's called now). Tests did not indicate an X-gene in JJ. This was due to his White-Light-mutated cells naturally fighting the gene’s mutation and constantly transforming JJ on their own, a trait inherited from his mother. When JJ was 11, he began getting sick more frequently. When he was home alone from school one day, he experienced a 'blow-out' and his powers emerged. JJ wears around his neck a red, palm-sized pendant with a black P on it. This device, when tapped by him or his mother, controls JJ's transformation. The pendant mysteriously appeared when he was an infant and is constructed of same materials as Blossom's Power Compact. Pendant can be tracked, but cannot communicate. If the pendant is removed or lost, JJ remains in whichever state he was last in.JJ can't cook, and when left alone has been known to live solely on leftovers, take-out, or PB&amp;J.He has no romantic relationships in the works though he has both male and female BFFs, both mutant and not.Often described by people as laidback, he is dependable and will take charge if he has to or if someone he cares about is in danger. Tends to be intuitive rather than strategic, in fighting. Has deep feelings for children, especially orphans or those in danger. Wants a sibling, especially a sister. Has a large extended family on his mother's side and through his parents' involvement with the mutant world and Fandom High; has no involvement with the Akkaba clan and little knowledge about it.JJ enjoys eating, hanging out with friends and family, playing video games, listening to and playing music, watching bad sci-fi movies with his mom, and babysitting. His school grades are average, though he tests well outside of the classroom.He is proud of his powers and abilities and is very glad he didn't get a pink dress like his mother. Though he has no aspirations at this moment to be a hero, he is on a junior X-team because he feels it's the thing to do. And his parents (mother) insisted on it as the best way to develop and monitor his powers.He is still trying to figure out a cool code name since his father won't give up 'Chamber'... 
                 People
                [View Entries]
                    Mutual Access (0)
                    Also Gives Access To (6):
             clonewelldone, furnaceface, sharp_as_knives[livejournal.com] heromaniac, hijas-kawaii, xboyz 
                    Also Has Access From (0)
                    Mutual Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscribers (0)
                 Communities
                [View entries]
                    Member Of (0)
                    Subscriptions (2):
             dw_maintenance, dw_news 
                    Administrator Of (0)
                 Feeds
                [View Entries]
                    Subscriptions (0)
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
