https://youngminds.org.uk/get-involved/our-ambassadors/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Our Ambassadors
Meet the Ambassadors
Meet all the ambassadors we’re working with to help raise awareness about children and young people’s mental health.
Bella Ramsey
Bella Ramsey, actor and star of Game of Thrones, The Worst Witch and Judy, has joined our fight for young people's mental health.
Cathy Newman
Journalist and presenter of Channel 4 News, Cathy Newman, tells us why she has decided to become a YoungMinds Ambassador.
Daniel Howell
YouTuber and former Radio 1 presenter Daniel Howell opens up about his experience of living with depression.
Ella Purnell
Ella Purnell, actor and star of US drama Sweetbitter and films Never Let Me Go and Churchill, has joined our fight for young people's mental health.
Jada Sezer
Social media star Jada Sezer is an inspiring role model for young girls and is keen to use social media and the internet to spread a positive message about life.
Katie Thistleton
TV and radio presenter Katie Thistleton discusses how she looks after her mental health, and the role media can play in breaking the stigma surrounding mental illness.
Lauren Layfield
CBBC presenter Lauren Layfield shares why she’s decided to become a YoungMinds Ambassador, and her experience with opening up about her mental health.
Sean Fletcher
Sean Fletcher, journalist, radio and TV presenter, talks with us about OCD, parenting, and looking after your mental health.
Latest From YoungMinds
All the latest news and views from YoungMinds
Looking after yourself at uni
Being at university can be a really exciting period in your life, but it can also feel stressful or overwhelming at times. Here are some ways you can look after yourself.
Online workshop: Introduction to Children and Young People’s Mental Health
This interactive online workshop will help you understand mental health and learn practical ways of working with children experiencing distress.
Online workshop: Introduction to Participation
Understand how participation can improve mental health services for children and young people, and how you can integrate participation into your work.
Coping with anxiety about going back to school
After so long off school, it is completely natural to feel anxious about returning. Two of our bloggers share their worries and what's helping them cope.
Supporting a child returning to school after lockdown
Our Parents Helpline experts share their tips for supporting a child in the transition back to school life.
Supporting your pupils through the COVID-19 pandemic
Tips, advice and wellbeing resources to support pupils, staff and parents during the COVID-19 pandemic and the transition back to the classroom.
Coping with social anxiety as lockdown eases
It is completely normal to feel anxious about seeing friends again after so long in lockdown. Gigi, 25, shares her experience of this and how she is coping.
Racism and my mental health
"Nobody has any right to discriminate against you based on your race or ethnicity. Ever." Our Activist Luke, 15, shares how his experience of racism has affected his mental health.
Beyond Tomorrow
We're calling on the Government to limit the long-term impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on young people’s mental health
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
