https://youngminds.org.uk/about-us/media-centre/press-releases/school-staff-warn-of-the-extensive-impact-of-covid-19-pandemic-on-young-people-s-mental-health-new-survey/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
School staff warn of the extensive impact of COVID-19 pandemic on young people’s mental health - new survey
The results of a survey with teachers and school staff into the impact of the coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown on young people’s mental health reveal the significant concerns staff have for the wellbeing of their pupils as we emerge from the pandemic.
Contact the Media team
Want to speak to us about a media request?
Contact the media team on
Or email us using the link below.
Released Friday 19th June 2020
The results of a survey with teachers and school staff into the impact of the coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown on young people’s mental health have been published today, revealing the significant concerns staff have for the wellbeing of their pupils as we emerge from the pandemic.
Mental health charity YoungMinds carried out the survey [1] with 1,135 teachers and members of school or college staff[2] between Friday 15th May and Monday 1st June in the lead up to schools re-opening to a larger number of students.
The results show that:
The results of the survey are being published as schools gradually welcome more pupils back into the classroom, after months of living and learning at home.
YoungMinds warns that there will be a rise in young people who need some form of mental health support as a result of the pandemic. The charity is concerned that many schools may lack the necessary resources to meet the demand, especially when thresholds for referrals to NHS support are often high.
Emma Thomas, Chief Executive of YoungMinds, said:
“We know that the coronavirus pandemic has had a profound impact on the lives of millions of children and young people across the country. In some cases, they have been through traumatic experiences at home, witnessing abuse or the deaths of friends and family, while others have struggled with missing friends, losing the structure of school or no longer being able to access the support they rely upon. If we don’t support young people now, the long-term impact could be huge.
“While returning to school is likely to be positive for many young people’s mental health, the readjustment following a long break and the changes schools are having to make to their environment and timetables will be very challenging for many. Schools need to be able to make wellbeing their top priority now and through the Autumn term, and need government support to help them to do that.
“We know that around a third of schools currently do not provide school-based mental health support, and that many young people who are struggling to cope may not meet the criteria for NHS mental health services in their area. That’s why we are calling on the Government to provide ring-fenced funding to ensure that schools can bring in extra support where it’s needed to help pupils and parents.” [3]
10,000 people have so far signed YoungMinds’ petition calling for the Government to support young people’s mental health during this pandemic. For more information, go to www.youngminds.org.uk/beyondtomorrow
Quotes from teachers:
“There are a lot of children who would receive interventions in school to support their wellbeing. This, for some families, has not been able to continue. I also believe social connection for our children is important and some are not receiving this.”
“Schools need to be able to focus on the wellbeing of the children and adults in school rather than the preoccupation of league tables and Ofsted. This could be an opportunity to return schools to focusing on the needs of the children and the trust in teachers to provide high quality education and pastoral support so that teachers can embrace being teachers rather than jumping through seemingly impossible hoops.”
“Some families are thriving because the academic pressure from school has been lifted. But other children and families are missing the routine and structure and their friends. It's not the schools closing that is the problem - it's the situation families were in before which was always there but perhaps just feels magnified at the moment.”
NOTES TO EDITORS
YoungMinds is the UK’s leading charity fighting for young people’s mental health. For more information please visit www.youngminds.org.uk
Follow us on Twitter @YoungMindsUK and Facebook
The charity previously published results from a survey with young people and from parents and carers about the mental health impact of COVID-19
For free advice and support for parents, call our helpline on 0808 802 5544
YoungMinds have made a number of recommendations to Government on how schools can support young people’s mental health, including:
[1] The survey was hosted on surveygizmo.uk between Friday 15th May and Monday 1st June, and promoted through advertising on social media on social media and charity mailing lists. 1,135 teachers took part. See accompanying summary of results for more information.
[2] 607 responders were teaching staff and support staff. Other respondents included pastoral leads, members of Senior Leadership Teams, Headteachers, school nurses and school governors. There was a relatively even split of respondents from primary and secondary schools, at 40% and 35% respectively, with the remaining respondents working in FE colleges and early years.
[3] 66% of schools provided school-based mental health support in 2019, according to research by Place2Be: https://www.place2be.org.uk/about-us/news-and-blogs/2020/february/significant-rise-in-number-of-school-based-counsellors/
Visit our media centre
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
