https://youngminds.org.uk/get-involved/campaign-with-us/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Campaign With Us
See what we’re campaigning on, how to get involved and explore how our campaigns have made a difference to children and young people’s mental health.
Beyond Tomorrow
We're calling on the Government to limit the long-term impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on young people’s mental health
Beyond Tomorrow
We're calling on the Government to limit the long-term impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on young people’s mental health
Britain Get Talking
We're supporting Britain Get Talking, ITV's Mental Wellness campaign to help families get closer.
Act Early for young people's mental health
Our campaign, Act Early, calls on the new government to work together to look after young people’s mental health and get early help to all young people who need it.
Early Intervention Review
Our research is investigating what early intervention is available for young people that need help with their mental health.
Wise Up to Wellbeing in Schools
Wise Up, calls on the new Government to rebalance the education system so that the wellbeing of students is as important as academic achievement.
Always - Helping To Get Children Home From Mental Health Hospitals
Good inpatient care acts as a lifeline to many young people with mental health problems. But in some cases, young people can be trapped in inappropriate hospitals or be subjected to dangerous forms of restraint. Help us change this.
Beano and YoungMinds
We’ve partnered with Beano Studios (home of The Beano comic) to create fun, engaging content for under 12’s that can help support their mental health and wellbeing.
Our #FightingFor Campaign
We’re #FightingFor a new era for young people’s mental health, where help is available to every young person who reaches out.
Success Stories
YoungMinds Vs
We teamed up with young people and gave them a voice to tackle some of the biggest issues facing children in the UK today including bullying, sexual pressures and a lack of work opportunities
#HelloYellow
At a time when it’s needed most, come together for #HelloYellow to support young people’s mental health on World Mental Health Day.
Self-Harm Awareness Day
Every year on 1st March we work with The Mix and selfharmUK to challenge the stigma around self-harm that stops young people looking for help.
Join the Movement
There are plenty of ways to get involved. Explore how you can become a part of the UK’s leading charity for children and young people's mental health.
Find out how you can get involved with us and help to champion young people when it comes to mental health policy and care.
If you’re aged 14 to 25, then you are key to our mission. We want to put young people at the heart of everything we do whether it’s raising awareness of mental health problems, promoting wellbeing in schools or having your say on how mental health services are delivered in the UK.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
