https://youngminds.org.uk/contact-us/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Contact YoungMinds
Find out how to get in contact with us – find the right department to get in touch with or use our contact form and we’ll get straight back to you.
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life-changing work
By giving us permission to keep in touch. We'll keep you up to date with news, events and campaigns about the mental health of children and young people.
To contact our team, please use the relevant enquiry form:
Fundraising
Recruitment and volunteering
Training
Press
If your query isn't covered above, you can contact us via our general enquiries form or call the office on 020 7089 5050.
FAQs
I am a…
…parent worried about my child
Speak to our experts at the Parents Helpline – call 0808 802 5544
Or email the Parents Helpline using our contact form.
…young person looking for help and support
Text the YoungMinds Crisis Messenger, for free 24/7 support across the UK if you are experiencing a mental health crisis.
Think you might have or been diagnosed with a mental health condition? See our guides on finding help.
Looking for Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS)?
YoungMinds is an independent national charity and is not part of the NHS at all. CAMHS is a set of local services run by the NHS in your area and you’ll usually be referred by your GP or, you can find your nearest CAMHS service on the NHS website.
What training do you provide?
We provide training courses to adults – see our current training courses or get in touch to find out about training.
Currently we do not provide training or presentations to young people, but it is something we’re hoping to offer in the future. For opportunities for young people under 25 check out our Join the Movement pages.
I want to fundraise for you
To find out about the different ways of fundraising for YoungMinds, please head  over to our How to Fundraise page or alternatively, you can contact the fundraising team.
Can you support me with my essay / project / paper / statistics / research?
Unfortunately we do not have the capacity to give advice or research support as we are not a research organisation. All of our current statistical and information that we do hold can be found on our mental health statistics page or in our resources library.
If you are looking for resources such as leaflets, they can be found on our publications page.
Could someone from YoungMinds attend / speak at my event?
If you would like to book a speaker or trainer for your event, please contact the training team.
We have very limited capacity to attend promotional events, however if you think we would be a good fit, please get in touch.
Can you promote my services / book / petition?
We are unable to promote or endorse projects when we have not been involved in the development process from the beginning.
Unfortunately we no longer review books for our magazine as we made the decision to stop printing it in 2014 and we just share our own news in the form of our monthly eNewsletter.
I want to work for or volunteer with YoungMinds...
If you would like information on our current paid and voluntary vacancies, please visit our jobs page.
If you have any queries about any of the roles, please contact the recruitment team.
If you are a young person under the age of 25 and would like more information on playing an active role in the work we do, see how you can get involved.
I am interested in an internship/work experience/placement session with you
Unfortunately we do not offer clinical services to young people, so we are unable to support psychology/social work etc. placements at YoungMinds.
We are also not currently able to offer internships or accommodate work experience placements due to the lack of resources in the office.
All other enquiries
For all other enquiries, please use the enquiry form for the relevant team:
Fundraising
Recruitment and volunteering
Training
Press
If your query isn't covered above, you can contact us via our general enquiries form or call the office on 020 7089 5050.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
