https://youngminds.org.uk/blog/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
YoungMinds' Blog
What to do if you’re anxious about coronavirus
If the current news on coronavirus (COVID-19) is making you feel anxious, concerned or stressed, here are some things you can do.
Dealing with hopelessness in the COVID-19 pandemic
Four of our bloggers share how they're coping with feelings of hopelessness during the coronavirus pandemic.
Coping with an eating disorder at uni
Two of our bloggers share their experiences of coping with an eating disorder at university, as well as their advice to young people in the same situation.
How to stand up against bullying
Elsa, 18, shares how bullying can leave young people feeling isolated, and gives her tips for standing up against bullying.
Chronic pain, coronavirus and my mental health
Eva, 23, shares how living with chronic pain affects her mental health, and how the COVID-19 pandemic has made things more difficult for her.
Tips for helping a friend struggling with an eating disorder
It can be really difficult to see a friend struggling with an eating disorder and not know how to help. Beth, 15, shares her tips.
My experience of getting mental health support at uni
Tandy, 21, shares her experience of getting help from her university support services when she was struggling with her mental health at uni.
Supporting your child at university during the COVID-19 pandemic
Three parents share their tips for supporting a child who’s struggling with their mental health at uni during the coronavirus pandemic.
How I use Progressive Muscle Relaxation for anxiety
Eve, 20, explains how to do Progressive Muscle Relaxation - a grounding technique that helps her when she's feeling anxious.
Join our Digital Writers Pool and share your experiences, tips and advice with other young people who may be struggling with their mental health
Become a YoungMinds Blogger
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
