https://youngminds.org.uk/find-a-course/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Find a course
We run a variety of training courses to help you to improve mental health for children and young people in the UK.
Update: Regarding training and Covid-19
We are currently providing limited face to face training, only for in-house work and project work, but have a new range of online workshops being offered instead.
If you want to find out more about our in-house training where we bring our training to you, please make an enquiry.
Online workshop: Enabling Participation with Young People Facing Marginalisation
Learn how participation can help engage children and young people who face marginalisation and barriers to mental health services.
Online workshop: Trauma and Adversity
Learn about the impact of adverse life experiences on children’s wellbeing and use trauma-informed approaches to support their mental health.
Online workshop: Creating a Participation Strategy and Evaluation Framework
Learn how to build a participation strategy and evaluation framework for your setting based on theory of change.
Online workshop: Introduction to Adolescent Mental Health
Understand young people’s mental health and support them through their teenage years
Participation in Young People's Mental Health Training
Understand how participation can improve mental health services for children and young people, and plan your own participation offer.
Participation with Vulnerable Groups Training
Help young people who experience extra vulnerabilities to have their say in the design and delivery of mental health services
Evaluating Participation Training
Learn how to evaluate your organisation’s participation work, and how to meaningfully involve young people in the process.
More from YoungMinds
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
