https://youngminds.org.uk/training/mental-health-training/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Mental Health Training
Our mental health training courses can help you improve children and young people's mental health in the UK.
UPDATE: Regarding training and Covid-19
We are currently providing limited face to face training, only for in-house work and project work, but have a new range of online workshops being offered instead.
If you want to find out more about our in-house training where we bring our training to you, please make an enquiry.
About our training
Half of all mental health problems present in young people by the age of 14. The adults around young people can play a huge part in supporting their mental health and stopping their needs escalating.
Our training courses are designed to build your understanding of key mental health issues and give you the confidence to make a difference in young people's lives.
At YoungMinds, the experiences of professionals, and the young people they work with, are at the heart of our training programme. Each year we deliver training to over 10,000 professionals, and our expert trainers give you the practical skills to support the young people you work with.
Each course delivers exactly what you need:
Pricing and information
Our training courses are open to individuals and groups, and held as online workshops or face-to-face training on specific dates throughout the year.
Online workshops
Duration: 10am - 1:30pm
Price: £135 + VAT (£162 including VAT)
Our online workshops are held on Zoom and offer an interactive and collaborative experience. With two facilitators available in each workshop, we provide a safe learning space for everyone to feel empowered to make a difference for children and young people.
Face to face training
Duration: One day 10- 4pm.
Price: £225 + VAT (£270 including VAT)
The price includes a training pack with useful resources, end of course evaluation and a certificate of attendance.
Bringing our training to you
We can deliver training to a group of people at your workplace, and tailor it to your needs.
Duration: Full day (flexible, but usually 10-4pm) or half day (3 hours)
Maximum participants: 20
Costs: Please contact us for pricing
Keynote speakers
We also provide keynote speeches to large audiences for a maximum of 1 hour, for the cost of £400 + VAT.
To book one of our keynote speakers get in touch to discuss your needs with the team.
Our training courses
Introduction to Children and Young People's Mental Health
Help promote children and young people's mental health and wellbeing
Building Resilience Training
Learn how to build resilience in young people and the systems around them
Trauma and Mental Health Training
Learn the impact of adverse life experiences on children’s wellbeing and how to support them
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
