https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/looking-after-yourself/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Looking after yourself
Whether it’s spending time on social media, being with friends and family, or going to university – there are things we do every day that impact our mental health. Read our tips and advice on how you can look after yourself.
Coronavirus and mental health
Tips, advice and guidance on where you can get support for your mental health during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
Racism and mental health
Being treated differently or unfairly because of our race, skin colour or ethnicity can negatively affect our mental health. Here's some information on how to get help if you've experienced racism.
Coronavirus and mental health
Tips, advice and guidance on where you can get support for your mental health during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
Looking after yourself at uni
Being at university can be a really exciting period in your life, but it can also feel stressful or overwhelming at times. Here are some ways you can look after yourself.
Social media and mental health
How you experience social media can affect your mood. That’s why, together with O2, we’ve gathered these tips and advice on how to enjoy a more positive time online.
Gender and mental health
Your experiences with your gender may affect your mental health. For some, this can be a confusing or difficult time, but it doesn’t always have to be this way. Here's some information and advice to help.
Sexuality and mental health
The experiences you have because of your sexuality can impact your mental health. Here's some information to help you get the support you deserve.
Believe in yourself
It’s common to suffer from low self-esteem at some point in your life, but you can do things to make it better. Help boost your wellbeing by trying these seven steps.
Take time out
However busy you are, it’s important for your mental health to take time out for yourself to relax and recharge your batteries.
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Join the Movement
There are plenty of ways to get involved. Explore how you can become a part of the UK’s leading charity for children and young people's mental health.
Find out how you can get involved with us and help to champion young people when it comes to mental health policy and care.
If you’re aged 14 to 25, then you are key to our mission. We want to put young people at the heart of everything we do whether it’s raising awareness of mental health problems, promoting wellbeing in schools or having your say on how mental health services are delivered in the UK.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
