https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/for-parents/parents-helpline/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Parents Helpline
Worried about a child or young person? Contact the Parents Helpline for free, confidential advice via the phone, email or webchat.
Need urgent help?
If you need support in a crisis these contacts can help you.
Our Helpline will be closed all day on Friday 2nd October. We will resume normal opening hours on Monday 5th Oct.
Our normal opening hours are 9.30am - 4pm, Monday - Friday (excluding bank holidays).
We offer three different services to parents and carers who are concerned about their child’s mental health, up to the age of 25.
Here, you can find out more about our Parents Helpline, Email Service and Webchat.
Parents Helpline
Call our Parents Helpline for detailed advice, emotional support and signposting about a child or young person up to the age of 25.
Call us for free on 0808 802 5544 from 9:30am to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Parents Email Service
Email us to receive practical advice, signposts to places where you can find help and resources providing more detailed information.
Email at any time via our online contact form.
Please note we are currently receiving unprecedented demand and we are working hard to respond emails as quickly as we can. We would kindly ask that anyone who emails our service to expect a tailored response within 3-5 working days.
Please note that our email service is unable to provide:
We are also not a crisis service
Parents Webchat
Our Parents Webchat service provides signposting to help parents and carers find the information they are looking for with regards to their child's mental health.
Click on the image below to open the live webchat.
Once you are connected to the webchat, a webchat adviser will direct you to information on our website or signpost you to other organisations that can offer further support. The conversation will last around ten minutes.
Please note that the webchat service is unable to provide:
We are also not a crisis service.
If you require more in-depth advice or support, we encourage you to contact our helpline by phone on 0808 802 5544.
If you are deaf or speech-impaired, we offer our Parents Webchat as an alternative to the Parents Helpline.
Using our Parents Helpline services
Friendly and Confidential
Accessibility and languages
Support Our Work
YoungMinds exists so that young people have the strongest possible voice in improving their mental health. We need your help to make sure that voice is heard.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
