https://youngminds.org.uk/get-involved/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Get Involved
If you're passionate about improving young people's mental health and wellbeing then take a look at all the ways you can get involved with our work.
#HelloYellow
Say #HelloYellow and support children and young people’s mental health on World Mental Health Day.
Join the Movement
Be part of the change.
Campaign With Us
Campaigning is a key element of YoungMinds' work
Donate to YoungMinds
Donating to us ensures that our work championing the wellbeing and mental health of children and young people will continue.
How To Fundraise
Taking part in fundraising on behalf of YoungMinds is a great way to have fun, raise vital funds and improve awareness of the importance of young people's mental health and emotional wellbeing.
Find An Event
Update: Some of the 2020 events have been cancelled or rescheduled due to Covid-19. We will keep these events updated when we have the latest information, including rescheduled dates.
Our Ambassadors
Meet the ambassadors we’re working with to help raise awareness about children and young people’s mental health.
Volunteer with the Parents Helpline
Support parents of children and young people with mental health issues by joining the Parents Helpline team.
Our helpline provides support and advice to parents and carers worried about the emotional wellbeing or behaviour of a young person in their care with confidential expert advice.
As a volunteer you’ll be a vital part of the Parents Helpline, which continues to be a lifeline for thousands of callers, helping more than 10,000 families per year.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
