https://youngminds.org.uk/youngminds-professionals/consultancy/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Our Consultancy
Helping you transform mental health services to improve the lives of young people
Find Out More
For more information on how we can help you transform mental health services, contact us at [email protected]
YoungMinds Consultancy help you commission, design and deliver better mental health interventions and services that generate the outcomes that matter to children, young people and families. We understand the complexities and competing demands of the mental health system because we’re working with policy makers, providers and service users every day.
Transforming Together
Our Transforming Together framework for system and service design and improvement underpins our consultancy work. Created by our leading participation experts and informed by young people, parents and professionals, it combines systems thinking with participation to drive sustainable change.
The Transforming Together framework is designed to embed these three principles into the children’s mental health system because we believe they are essential if we are to change the culture of the system:
The three principles are:
Services we offer, using Transforming Together are:
You can read more about Transforming Together here (download pdf).
Step 1: Engagement and Insights
What’s the purpose?
In Practice: Tower Hamlets
Tower Hamlets, in East London, is a densely populated and culturally diverse borough: around 49% of residents are from black and minority ethnic (BME) communities and a further 33% are of Bangladeshi heritage. The children and young people’s mental health services are part of the East London Foundation Trust.
YoungMinds and NEL Commissioning Support Unit were commissioned by Tower Hamlets Clinical Commissioning Group to develop a co-produced outcomes framework that would set the foundations for a shared local vision for the children’s mental health system and enable the system to organise resources around what matters most to local families. YoungMinds led on the design and implementation of insights generation with children, young people and families and the local workforce. Using in-reach workshops in local schools and community groups, the YoungMinds team explored outcomes creatively with children through, for example, drawing their favourite day at school.  Older year groups were invited to community workshops where they mapped their journeys within local services, identifying low and high points. Workforce workshops brought together front-line workers and system leaders from children’s health and social care services to explore their experiences and perspective.
Step 2: Design
What’s the purpose?
In Practice: Tower Hamlets
YoungMinds trained local young people to help analyse and interpret the insights from step one and from this developed with the CSU a draft set out children and young people’s mental health outcomes for the whole-system. These were iterated further in a series of whole-system workshops, bringing together professionals from a range of settings, including the voluntary and community sector, to ensure we created outcomes relevant to all parts of the system, and truly reflected the priorities of local people. We led workshops with local youth community groups and involved them in designing the measurement tools to implement and monitor the outcomes framework. Their feedback helped us make sure that the tools we all used were credible and approved by young people.
Step 3: Delivery
What’s the purpose?
In Practice: Tower Hamlets
With continued support and guidance from us, and the CSU, Tower Hamlets created an outcomes framework for all settings in their local area. One section of the outcomes framework was to increase young people’s understanding of mental health. We co-produced a mental health campaign with local young people.  Beginning the Transforming Together cycle again, on a smaller, quicker scale, we involved local young people and families in setting objectives for the campaign. Community partners were then enlisted to help develop the campaign and the local steering group including both the local workforce and professionals. Young people told us the campaign needed to be creative and locally relevant, so in response we organised a summer programme of activities. This included photography, grime music workshops and arts workshops to engage young people who may not have participated in a traditional mental health awareness programme. We followed this up with ‘Mark Your Mind’, co-produced mental health resources for young people, featuring local language and images created by young people. The resources were rolled out to community groups and schools during workforce training sessions.  We supported families through our co-produced parent training with local community groups so that parents could access interventions through organisations they already trusted. An evaluation of the project showed young people and parents who had participated did have increased mental health literacy.

More For Professionals
Mental Health Training
Our mental health training courses can help you improve children and young people's mental health in the UK.
We Support Teachers With Training And Resources
Our training and resources will give you the skills, knowledge and confidence to make a difference.
We Support Your Whole School Improvement
We support senior leaders and commissioners to take a whole school approach and ensure schools achieve best practice in wellbeing and resilience.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
