https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/your-guide-to-support/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Your guide to mental health support
Your guide to CAMHS, who's who in mental health services and who you can call if you need to talk to someone.
Your guide to CAMHS
A beginner's guide to the NHS's Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) for young people and parents.
Reaching out for help
We all need a bit of help sometimes. But it can be difficult to know how - or who - to ask. Here are some tips to help, as well as information on what support is available.
How to speak to your GP
If you are struggling with your mental health, going to your GP can be a good place to start to find help. Here we share some information and advice on speaking to your doctor about mental health.
Your guide to CAMHS
A beginner's guide to the NHS's Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) for young people and parents.
Counselling and therapy
Starting counselling or therapy may be daunting, but it can be an important step on the road to recovery. Here's our guide to talking therapy.
Your guide to inpatient care
People sometimes go into hospital for their mental health, to help them get the level of care and support they need. This guide explains what happens in a mental health unit, who you might meet and how they will support you.
Guide to support glossary
Here we explain some terms you may come across when seeking mental health support.
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Supporting Parents
If you’re worried about a child or young person’s mental health, there is plenty of help and advice including our free Parents Helpline.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
