https://youngminds.org.uk/youngminds-professionals/our-projects/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Our Projects
The projects we are involved in range from preventing mental illness from developing and to improving early intervention and care for those living with a mental health problem.
Find Your Feet
Mental health training and resources for pupils, schools, parents and carers to help children cope with the changes and transitions they experience during their time at school.
YoungMinds Welcome
Our project to support the mental health needs of Refugee and Asylum Seeking Children.
Amplified
Amplified is an NHS England funded programme working to develop the participation of children, young people and their families at every level of the mental health system.
Addressing Adversity
Our nationwide project promotes trauma informed practice that helps professionals to support children and young people who have experienced distressing or disturbing times.
Building Pupil Resilience in Schools
The Academic Resilience Approach helps to embed resilience across your whole school. Explore the programme and how you can get started with it.
No Harm Done
Explore our toolkits, videos and guides to getting through self harm and coming out the other side.
Mark Your Mind
Raising awareness and improving mental health in Tower Hamlets.
HeadMeds
Find out how we set up the HeadMeds website, who it helps and how young people and other experts have helped us make sure it's useful.
More from YoungMinds
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
