https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/feelings-and-symptoms/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Feelings and symptoms
Feeling different from usual or noticed a change in your behaviour? Find out about some common feelings and mental health symptoms, how to cope, and where to go to get help.
Bullying
Bullying affects over one million young people every year, and anyone can be bullied. Here's what you can do if you're being bullied.
Abuse
Abuse is always wrong and it can be very difficult to talk about but you’re never alone. If you’re worried about abuse, find out what it is and who can help you.
Anger
We all feel angry sometimes, often when there’s a good reason. Uncontrolled anger can be harmful, but you can learn to manage it.
Body image
Body image is how we think and feel about ourselves physically. Sometimes, we worry about how we look or what our friends think about our body. If you're struggling with body image, here’s some advice that can help you.
Bullying
Bullying affects over one million young people every year, and anyone can be bullied. Here's what you can do if you're being bullied.
Eating problems
Everyone eats differently, but if the way you eat is taking over your life, then you could have an eating problem. But you’re not alone.
Exam stress
Pressure to do well in exams can be overwhelming and affect your mental health. Here's our advice if it's all getting a bit too much.
Grief and loss
When you lose someone close to you, it’s natural to feel sad, depressed, worried or angry. Everyone reacts in their own way. If you’re finding it hard to cope, we can help you find support.
Loneliness
All of us will feel lonely at some point in our lives, and it can be difficult to cope with. But there are things you can do to feel better and people who can help.
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Supporting Parents
If you’re worried about a child or young person’s mental health, there is plenty of help and advice including our free Parents Helpline.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
