https://youngminds.org.uk/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Coronavirus advice and mental health support
Visit our advice page if you are struggling with self-isolation, coronavirus, and the impact it has on your mental health.
Fighting for young people's mental health
We’re leading the fight for a future where all young minds are supported and empowered, whatever the challenges
Beyond Tomorrow
We're calling on the Government to limit the long-term impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on young people’s mental health
Advice for parents during the coronavirus pandemic
Tips. advice and where to get support for your child's mental health during the coroanvirus (Covid-19) pandemic
Donate to YoungMinds
Help us fight for a future where all young minds are supported through life, whatever the challenges.
Text the YoungMinds Crisis Messenger
If you're a young person experiencing a mental health crisis, you can text our messenger for free 24/7 support.
Free Teaching Resources
Our schools’ resources library is full of free practical tips and simple activities to help you support pupil and staff wellbeing during this difficult time.
How Can We Help You?
Latest From YoungMinds
All the latest news and views from YoungMinds
Looking after yourself at uni
Being at university can be a really exciting period in your life, but it can also feel stressful or overwhelming at times. Here are some ways you can look after yourself.
Online workshop: Introduction to Children and Young People’s Mental Health
This interactive online workshop will help you understand mental health and learn practical ways of working with children experiencing distress.
Online workshop: Introduction to Participation
Understand how participation can improve mental health services for children and young people, and how you can integrate participation into your work.
Coping with anxiety about going back to school
After so long off school, it is completely natural to feel anxious about returning. Two of our bloggers share their worries and what's helping them cope.
Supporting a child returning to school after lockdown
Our Parents Helpline experts share their tips for supporting a child in the transition back to school life.
Supporting your pupils through the COVID-19 pandemic
Tips, advice and wellbeing resources to support pupils, staff and parents during the COVID-19 pandemic and the transition back to the classroom.
Coping with social anxiety as lockdown eases
It is completely normal to feel anxious about seeing friends again after so long in lockdown. Gigi, 25, shares her experience of this and how she is coping.
Racism and my mental health
"Nobody has any right to discriminate against you based on your race or ethnicity. Ever." Our Activist Luke, 15, shares how his experience of racism has affected his mental health.
Beyond Tomorrow
We're calling on the Government to limit the long-term impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on young people’s mental health
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Support Our Work
We're leading the fight for a future where all young minds are supported and empowered, whatever the challenges.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
