https://youngminds.org.uk/get-involved/campaign-with-us/act-early/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Act Early for young people's mental health
Our campaign, Act Early, calls on the new government to work together to look after young people’s mental health and get early help to all young people who need it.
About the campaign
There is a mental health crisis for children and young people. More and more young people are reaching out for help but not enough are getting support.One in eight children and young people have a diagnosable mental health condition but at the moment, the NHS is only able to support about one-third of those in need. Shockingly, the number of young people arriving in A&E with a mental health problem has tripled since 2010. In some cases, this is because they haven’t been able to get help anywhere else. There has been welcome investment in the NHS but services will remain overstretched unless the government takes a radical new approach.
Our campaign, Act Early, calls on the new government to work together to look after young people’s mental health and get early help to all young people who need it.
An update on our Act Early event
Due to the Coronavirus outbreak, we have had to cancel our event in Parliament on 30th March. We know that this is disappointing news but we’re working on making sure your voice is still heard in Parliament.
We got an overwhelmingly positive response from MPs expressing their interest in coming along to find out more about the campaign. Over the coming weeks we will be taking the campaign online and will set up calls with as many MPs as possible so that they can still hear directly from our Activists about their experience of accessing support for their mental health.
The campaign so far
General Election 2019
For the general election 2019, we asked you to email your local parliamentary candidates, calling on them to pledge their support for young people’s mental health if they are elected.
We asked you to do this so that the politicians from all parties understand why young people’s mental health is so important. It also helps us to show the next Government why they need to take action to ensure young people can get the help they need, when they need it.
Thank you to everyone who took the action.
YoungMinds Activists hand in petition
In November 2019, our activists headed to Parliament to hand in a petition of over 70,000 signatures calling on the next Government to Act Early for young people’s mental health.
our Activists hand in the Act Early petition
Did you know?
Our recent survey found:
Our solution
We're calling on the new government to introduce a bold cross-government strategy for children and young people's mental health, which will:
Read our manifesto: A Strategy for Young People's Mental Health
Together we can tackle this crisis. But the new government needs to #ActEarly and ensure that young people’s mental health is a priority across the government.
Our Latest Campaigns
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
