https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/conditions/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Conditions
Just as your body can become unwell, your mind can become unwell too. And just like with physical illnesses, treatment and support is available. Use our guides to find out more about different mental health conditions, how to cope with your feelings and what support is available to you.
ADHD and mental health
ADHD is the most common behavioural disorder in children and can start at 18 months old.
Anorexia
Anorexia is an eating disorder where you worry about your weight and eat less and less food.
Anxiety
It’s really common to develop anxiety at some point. Find out here what causes it and what you can do to feel better.
Bipolar disorder
Bipolar is characterised by extreme mood swings from almost manic highs to depressing lows.
Borderline personality disorder
Borderline personality disorder, or BPD as it's also known, can cause you to experience rapid changes in emotion, often triggered by your relationships.
Bulimia
Bulimia is an eating disorder where you get into a cycle of overeating and then try to get rid of the food.
Depression
Depression is a mood disorder where you feel 'down' all the time.
Mania and hypomania
Mania is a feeling of being extremely 'high', with lots of energy and enthusiasm.
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Support Our Work
YoungMinds exists so that young people have the strongest possible voice in improving their mental health. We need your help to make sure that voice is heard.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
