https://youngminds.org.uk/about-us/media-centre/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Media Centre
We can help with a whole range of media enquiries – below you’ll find the answers to some of the frequently asked questions we receive from journalists and the media
Press Releases
Our latest press releases on children and young people's mental health
Mental Health Statistics
Young people’s mental health and wellbeing has never been so important. These statistics show just how big – and growing – the problem is for young people in the UK
FAQs for Journalists and the Media
We can help with a whole range of media enquiries – here you’ll find the answers to some of the frequently asked questions we receive from journalists and the media
Our Spokespeople
If you’re looking for a comment on stories about young people’s mental health, our experts are happy to speak to the press
Reporting on Mental Health and Young People
You have the power to challenge the stigma surrounding mental health but to do this, fair, accurate and sensitive journalism is essential. See our guide for how to tips and further information.
YoungMinds Updates
Latest organisational news and updates about YoungMinds
Latest Press Releases
Lack of early support for young people’s mental health puts pressure on GPs – new survey
A major new survey of GPs across the UK reveals a lack of early mental health support for young people in their communities.
Huge gaps in early support for young people with mental health problems – new survey
A major new survey of young people with mental health problems exposes huge gaps in early support, and highlights school pressure, body image and traumatic childhood experiences as common factors that can lead to poor mental health.
Thousands of people share #5YearOldSelfie
Across the world, thousands of people have shared pictures of themselves as five-year-olds in response a new campaign by mental health charity YoungMinds.
Charities publish new guide on childhood trauma
Together with the Anna Freud Centre and Body and Soul, we have published a new guide on childhood adversity and trauma for professionals
Top footballers take #KickUpChallenge to support young people’s mental health
Hundreds of people across the country, including a string of top footballers, have taken part in the #KickUpChallenge since its launch on Saturday 4th May.
Teachers need more support to tackle self-harm
84% of secondary school teachers have taught a student who they believe self-harms in the last year, according to a survey by mental health charity YoungMinds.
Teacher survey reveals mental health crisis in our classrooms
94% of teachers have seen a rise in pupils presenting with mental health issues over the last five years, according to a new survey by YoungMinds.
A&E attendances by young people with psychiatric conditions almost doubled in five years - new figures
There has been a steep rise in the number of young people aged 18 or under arriving at A&E departments in England with psychiatric conditions, according to new figures released this week.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
