https://youngminds.org.uk/training/meet-our-trainers/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Meet our Trainers
Our highly experienced trainers deliver courses tailored to your needs.
Hannah Kinsey - Head of Training and Development
Head of Training and Development, Hannah manages our trainers and works directly with schools, professionals, parents and young people. Hannah has years of experience and has worked as a Connexions personal advisor and delivered training and outreach work for Childline, the NSPCC and Parliament's Education Service.
Before joining YoungMinds, Hannah was Training Manager at children’s charity Kidscape, working with young people, professionals and parents on safeguarding, bullying, self esteem and confidence building.
Hannah has worked as an advocate for Young People accessing CAMHS services, and is passionate about giving Young People a voice and helping them to have a say in the things that affect them.
Bianka Kuhn - Training and Consultancy Team Leader
Bianka is an HCPC registered Dramatherapist and has worked creatively with young people from disadvantaged socio-economic backgrounds in the UK, Germany, France and Ireland. She has provided therapy for children and young people, as well as adults with severe and enduring mental health issues.
Since joining YoungMinds in October 2014, Bianka has led a variety of nationwide projects. She developed a self-harm and suicide prevention training for the London Borough of Barnet and led a consultation process with County Durham working with schools to promote resilience. Most recently she managed our national HEE funded ‘Addressing Adversity’ project, organising country wide conferences and training on Trauma and Trauma informed care.
As well as delivering training and leading on projects Bianka is a team leader within the Training and Consultancy team.
Having a keen interest in mindfulness, Bianka has additionally consulted to Puffin Publishing House on their illustrated book “Calm with the Very Hungry Caterpillar” (published in June 2016) introducing and guiding children through a calming process based on a mindfulness breathing exercise.
Sarah Berman - Trainer Consultant
Sarah Berman has had over 25 years primary school teaching experience, during which time she has had responsibility for ICT and completed a Master degree in Computers in Education. Since 2004, she has been a freelance advisory teacher in the Computing Curriculum, working in a range of schools. She supports teachers by teaching modelled lessons and working with staff 1:1, in groups or on a whole staff basis, as well as teaching students on the Schools Direct programme at the Institute of Education.
Online Safety comes under the Computing Curriculum and Sarah has been a CEOP Ambassador since 2013, delivering training to staff, children, parents and governors.
Since 2016, Sarah has been a volunteer on the YoungMinds Parents Helpline, talking to parents/carers who are concerned about their child’s emotional wellbeing. She is also part of the YoungMinds Training Consultancy team, delivering both in-house and bespoke training to clients on a range of issues concerning mental health, including areas such as the impact of technology on young people’s mental health, resilience and self-harming behaviours.
Hayley Riggs - Trainer Consultant
Hayley has spent over 13 years supporting young people who have experienced adversity including mental health issues, homelessness and the care system. This has included extensive designing and delivering a wide range of training on Adolescent Mental Health, Academic Resilience and Self Harm.
Mary Webb - Trainer Consultant
Mary is a practitioner academic, combining a Principal Lecturer post as course leader of the University of Westminster’s MSc Leading and Managing in Health and Social Care, a course designed for staff employed in senior and management positions, with a consultancy, research and training business (The Change Agency) focussed on improving outcomes and service delivery in the public and third sector through an evidence-based best practice approach.
She has extensive experience in health and social care, especially in children’s services, with expertise in children’s development, children’s developmental disorders and children’s mental health as well as in leadership and management in this sector.
Her skills include: consultancy, developing and running courses both within and outside of the academic arena, negotiation and problem-solving in complex working environments, working with service users and patients, relationship building, coaching and mentoring.
Mary works for YoungMinds as a freelance trainer delivering training on children and young people’s mental health throughout the UK.
She has a specialism in autism spectrum disorders and works for the National Autistic Society training health professionals to diagnose autism in children and adults and she is also part of their clinical diagnostic team.
She has carried out reviews of child mental health services in Hampshire, Norfolk and West Cheshire and conducted research into children and young people’s views and experiences of using health service and GP complaint systems, for the Office of the Children’s Commissioner.
Jessica Cotton - Trainer Consultant
Jessica is a BACP qualified Psychodynamic Counsellor and mental health project manager with over 10 years experience working with vulnerable people in a range of community settings.
Jessica’s special area of interest is psychological trauma and how this not only impacts people’s ability to engage with services but also staff resilience and how this shapes service culture.
Most recently, Jessica was the Trauma Informed Development lead for YMCA Downslink group responsible to co-ordinating the roll out of the ‘trauma informed’ approach across the organisation’s services to children, young people and their families in Sussex.
Since qualifying as a psychodynamic counsellor in 2012, Jessica has worked in both private practice and the charity sector providing time limited and open ended psychodynamic counselling to young people and adults. Currently, as well as being a part of our training team, Jessica works with an online counselling service providing counselling to children and young people 11-25.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
