https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/medications/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
Medications
Looking for the medications website HeadMeds? We have moved the information from headmeds.org.uk to here, so you can find all the information you need on medication and mental health in one place. If you are thinking about taking mental health medication, here is some general information which might help. Please note this is not medical advice. Always talk to your doctor.
Thinking about trying medication
Are you thinking about trying medication to help with your mental health? Here's some advice on how to decide if a medicine is right for you.
Getting medication
Who prescribes medication? And how can you get a repeat prescription? Our guide takes you through the steps of getting medication.
Getting support with your medication
It can be difficult to take medication on your own. Having friends, family, or your school or work supporting you can help.
Medication glossary
Here are explanations of some common terms and phrases used when talking about mental health medication
Addiction
If you're worried about becoming addicted to medication, here are some signs and things you can do.
Agomelatine
Agomelatine ("ag-o-mel-a-teen") can be used to treat depression
Amitriptyline
Amitriptyline ("Ammy-TRIP-ti-leen") can be used to treat depression
Aripiprazole
Aripiprazole ("arry-PIP-ra-zole") can be used to treat schizophrenia and prevent recurrence of mania
Coping With Mental Health Issues
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
