https://youngminds.org.uk/find-help/for-parents/
What are you searching for?
If you are a parent needing help, please contact our helpline by phone, webchat or email.
Click here for information on how to contact our Parents Helpline.
For parents
Worried about a child or young person's behaviour or mental health? You're not alone.
Supporting your child during the coronavirus pandemic
Tips, advice and where to get support for your child's mental health during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Supporting your child during the coronavirus pandemic
Tips, advice and where to get support for your child's mental health during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Parents Helpline
Worried about a child or young person? Contact the Parents Helpline for free, confidential advice via the phone, email or webchat.
Parents survival guide
Parenting isn’t always easy. Although it’s often amazing and rewarding to watch your children grow, and to help them learn to be independent, it can also be really hard work.
Parents guide to support A-Z
Our A-Z gives you advice on how to help your child with specific mental health conditions, and life events which might be negatively affecting their wellbeing. We'll also show you where you can get help.
Starting a conversation with your child
Talking to your child about how they’re feeling can be hard. By taking 20 minutes with them to do an activity you’ll both enjoy, you’ll create a relaxed space to start that conversation. Here are lots of fun activity ideas, conversation starters and advice to make talking easier and help you and your child #Take20.
Parents Lounge
Watch our Parents Helpline experts give their advice and tips on a range of topics chosen by you, from how to have difficult conversations with your child, to managing anxiety in children.
How to set up your own parent's support group
We know as parents you can often feel alone when trying to support your child's mental health needs. Here's our guide to setting up a Parent's Support Group to meet other parents with similar worries and issues.
Contact Us
Call the Parents Helpline: 0808 802 5544 (Monday to Friday 9.30am – 4pm, free for mobiles and landlines)
Keep In Touch
Be part of YoungMinds' life changing work by giving us permission to keep in touch.
Follow Us
Join the conversation on our social channels.
Supporters and Partners
© 2020 YoungMinds. Registered charity numbers 1016968 & SC039700
