            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing yuuago's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    ☆❀☆Okay then
                inner -->
Okay thenSep. 17th, 2020 10:06 pm
yuuagoHeard some wacko yelling and banging on the door to my building. He kept at it for quite a while, too. Had intended to go out for a long walk this evening, but uh... yeah, no. Man, this is something I don't miss about living in apartment buildings near major transit stations. Though it's still nothing like when I was living in Saskatoon, so there is that.I hate that it's getting so dark out at such an early hour. I don't mind going around in the dark in general, but people who are not me can be a problem. (Also, cars.)Luckily for me, my building has a gym, and it tends to be deadsville in the evenings. Totally not as nice as going for a good long walk, though.Or maybe I should start doing this stuff after work instead? Going to have to think about how to juggle that kind of scheduling. I suppose it depends on what I'm planning for supper. Man, is that ever going to be a pain in the ass. Definitely going to put more effort into learning how to cook simple, healthy, fast meals...I've accepted the fact that my eating is disordered. I say "my eating is disordered" because it's not like I've been diagnosed with anything, and I haven't sought that out, so what the hell do I know. But I do realize that my relationship with food is incredibly fucked for various reasons that I'd rather not get into. But it is a problem, and I fully intend to work on fixing this problem.So! Yes. Learning how to cook, having a healthy balanced diet, and getting on an even keel with this is definitely a goal. Hopefully at some point I'll stop resenting the entire concept of eating.
Tags:
fitness,
home life,
mental health
Reply
                    inner -->
Profile
yuuago
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Network
Tags
Memories
Profile
:｡･:*:･ﾟ'☆
Writing archive
Ao3 archive
Personal tumblr
Photo tumblr
Events calendar
Resolutions
About
Yuu. Fic writer &amp; book lover. M/Canada.My journal is a mix of fandom and RL. Please see profile for more information.
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:40 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
