            Account name:
            Password
        (OpenID?)
        (Forgot it?)
            Remember Me
  You're viewing yuuago's journal
  Create a Dreamwidth Account  Learn More
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
  Reload page in style:  site   light
                    ☆❀☆Kpop nostalgia (Reply)
                inner -->
Kpop nostalgiaSep. 12th, 2020 09:18 am
yuuagoThe other day I ended up listening to Love Story by G.O.D/Groove Over Dose. In the span of a couple seconds, I was instantly transported back to 2006, when I near-constantly playing their Chapter 5: Letter album on repeat. It's like I got smacked upside the head with a load of nostalgia.I still have that album. When I was packing up my stuff, I came across the box where I'd stored it. A lot of my stuff from that era has been in the basement for years, never unpacked after my last move, and I haven't had a chance to listen to it for ages.Never was super into Kpop (Jrock was more my style), but I did like G.O.D a lot. Also H.O.T too (I still really, really love their song Candy, it's so bouncy and fun). Looks like G.O.D released some new material last year, which is a pleasant surprise. I'll have to check it out when I finished moving.It's kind of crazy to think of now vs back then - like, the only stuff I knew about was what I heard of through the two people I knew who were into it, and youtube wasn't on my radar because it was very new - I was still finding music by looking up artists my friends mentioned on Kazaa and downloading things at random. And the only way I ended up with an actual CD was because one of the aforementioned people sent it to me from the USA.But now, it's so easy to just... listen to this stuff, and purchase it legally instead of buying it from some sketchy person on Ebay or getting a friend to burn it for you. Even my local library has some Kpop stuff. Well, sure, they don't have anything by the two groups that I like, but they have some work by girl groups that I've heard of but haven't listened to before. And one BTS album. The fact that there's anything at all is blowing my mind....Anyway. I'm looking forward to listening to G.O.D's Chapter 5 album on repeat in a few days, while I unpack.
Tags:
music
Link
3 comments
  From:
        Anonymous
          OpenID
            Identity URL:
            Log in?
        Dreamwidth account
            Account name
            Password
            Log in?
      If you don't have an account you can create one now.      
            Subject
HTML doesn't work in the subject.
            Formatting type
Casual HTML
Markdown
Raw HTML
            Message
       Links will be displayed as unclickable URLs to help prevent spam.
                    inner -->
Profile
yuuago
Recent Entries
Archive
Reading
Network
Tags
Memories
Profile
:｡･:*:･ﾟ'☆
Writing archive
Ao3 archive
Personal tumblr
Photo tumblr
Events calendar
Resolutions
About
Yuu. Fic writer &amp; book lover. M/Canada.My journal is a mix of fandom and RL. Please see profile for more information.
Expand Cut Tags
No cut tags
                    inner -->
Page generated Oct. 10th, 2020 09:41 pm
Powered by Dreamwidth Studios
                    inner -->
                inner -->
         inner -->
                Top of page
