     Skip to Main Content
                                Profile
                    zoemathemata    
                    Grant Access
                    Subscribe
                    Track Account
                    Private Message
                        Gift Paid Account
            We're gonna Need a Bigger boat
            Meahwhile, back at the lab.....
      Free AccountCreated on 2011-01-09 03:14:53 (#686238), last updated 2011-12-27 (458 weeks ago)0 comments received, 96 comments posted  176 Journal Entries, 83 Tags, 0 Memories, 29 Icons UploadedView extended profile  
                 About
                  Name:zoemathemataBirthdate:Nov 25Location:AB, Canada  
                 Mini Bio
                Moodtheme by kaaatieME ME MEWhen I was younger, I never wanted to date James Bond. I wanted to BE James Bond. But try explaining that to your friends and you can imagine that you get the requisite head tilt and cross-eyed "But you're a GIRL"This really had never occurred to me until someone pointed it out. And frankly, I still don't see why me being a girl [and a really girly girl at that!] should hinder my ability to be James Bond. Ass-kicking, martini-drinking, super-smooth secret agent! Really the fact that I'm a wuss and a nerdy nerd impinges more on my ability to be Bond, James Bond, than the fact that I'm a chick. I wanted to be Wonder Woman too, but I never liked the fact that her top was strapless. I probably knew, even at a young age that I would never get the boobs to fill out that blue sparkly top. I totally love stuff where girls kick ass. But I must admit, I think it's kinda dumb that more women superheros/ass-kickers/pick-your-heroine-here don't tie their hair back. I don't even like working out with my hair down, I can't imagine taking on a horde of zombies or vampires and getting loose strands caught in my lip gloss or having it blow across my eyes and, you know, impede my DEATH STRIKE OF DOOM.Addicted to fanfic since fall 2008, writing it since November 2008. I'll ship anyone if the writing's good by my fave pairings are:Supernatural - Dean/Cas Stargate Atlantis - Sheppard/McKayOther loves of fanfic - H/C - particularly hurt/sick!Dean or hurt/sick!Rodney - why do we always hurt the ones we love, why oh why?I think friending should be changed/modified. From Friending to "Politely Stalking with Permission" or something. Shrug. I "lurk" a lot and end up "tracking user" a lot, somehow ridonculously worried that if I friend someone and they don't friend me back, this is equivalent to asking someone to play with you on the swingset and having them kick dirt on your shiny mary janes and lacey knee high socks. On purpose. With malice. If you friend me, I'll friend you back. I'll continue to lurk/stalk etc. um, that's it? I guess?
                 Connect
                Interests (42):
            angel, buffy, chris isaak, chuck, criminal minds, depeche mode, doctor who, dogs, evil dead, florence and the machine, fringe, ghosts, house, internet, itunes, jane eyre, knitting, music, mysteries, placebo, portishead, reading, romance novels, running, scrapbooking, stargate, stargate sg:1, stargate: atlantis, stargate:atlantis, supernatural, the big bang theory, thrillers, torchwood, training for a 5k! again!, true blood, tv, twitter, vampires, werewolves, writing, x-files, zombies
                 People
                [View Entries]
                    Mutual Access (6):
             kimber1961, lou, mcshepbigbang, melagan, popkin16, selenic76 
                    Also Gives Access To (0)
                    Also Has Access From (3):
             sgamadison, squidgiepdx, wyndewalker 
                    Mutual Subscriptions (8):
             kimber1961, lou, mcshepbigbang, melagan, popkin16, selenic76, sgamadison, squidgiepdx 
                    Other Subscriptions (0)
                    Other Subscribers (3):
             elegantpi, louistoef, wyndewalker 
                 Communities
                [View entries]
                    Member Of (5):
             atlantisbigbang, november_tales, squee_in, story_works, wooo 
                    Subscriptions (16):
             atlantisbigbang, daily_hewlett, deancastiel, dw_maintenance, dw_news, inkingitout, mckay_sheppard, november_tales, romancingmcshep, sga_flashfic, sga_kinkmeme, sga_noticeboard, spn_j2_fic, squee_in, story_works, wooo 
                    Administrator Of (1):
             november_tales 
                 Feeds
                [View Entries]
                    Subscriptions (0)
                 Linking
                To link to this user, copy this code:On Dreamwidth:Elsewhere: 
    Account name: Log in with OpenID?Password: Forget your password?  Remember me 
                    Create
                Create Account
                Display Preferences
Explore
                Interests
                Directory Search
                Site and Journal Search
                Latest Things
                Random Journal
                Random Community
                FAQ
Shop
                Buy Dreamwidth Services
                Gift a Random User
                DW Merchandise
Interest
Region
Site and Account
FAQ
Email
IM Info
    Privacy Policy • 
    Terms of Service • 
    Diversity Statement • 
    Guiding Principles • 
    Site Map • 
    Make a Suggestion • 
    Open Source • 
    Help/Support
Copyright © 2009-2020 Dreamwidth Studios, LLC. Some rights reserved.
