                          Subscribe
                                    Select Subscription Type
                     -->
                    Please select a valid Rate Type!
                Mission Statement
In the stormy seas of school reform, this journal will steer a steady course, presenting the facts as best they can be determined, giving voice (without fear or favor) to worthy research, sound ideas, and responsible arguments. Bold change is needed in American K–12 education, but Education Next partakes of no program, campaign, or ideology. It goes where the evidence points.
Subscription Notes
Is this a renewal?
To request a convenient personalized online renewal, contact customer service using one of the methods listed below.
Institutional Orders
Rates above apply to both individual and institutions. If you wish to receive an invoice, contact customer service or direct your subscription agent to contact customer service using one of the methods listed below.
Gift Subscriptions
Gift subscriptions will be billed to the purchaser and delivered to the recipient for the length of the subscription term. Purchasers will be given the choice to renew the gift subscription at the close of the subscription term, or to have a renewal notice sent to the gift recipient.
Address Changes
Send address changes for Education Next to customer service using another method listed below.
Alternative Ordering Methods
E-Mail – ednext@uchicago.edu
Mail - Fill out, print, and mail our order form (PDF)
Telephone - Order by phone Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (CST) by calling (773) 753-3347 or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878.
Subscription Fulfillment
The University of Chicago Press Journals Division provides sales processing and customer service for Education Next, published by Education Next Editorial Projects, Inc. Contact us using one of the methods above or write to: Education Next, Subscription Fulfillment, 1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902.
Shipping and Taxes
Shipping and taxes may apply to your order.
Back Issues /Single Copies
You can order copies of recent back issues of this journal by contacting ednext@uchicago.edu. Single copies cost: $7.00 (individuals); $7.00 (institutions).
Go To
Education Next home page
