https://trainingindustry.com/about/
Training Industry
Site Menu
Section
Topics
Certifications & Courses
Industry
Talk to us
About
ABOUT TRAINING INDUSTRY
Training Industry is the most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
On our website, TrainingIndustry.com; in Training Industry Magazine; and in our webinars, events and continuing professional development opportunities, we focus on the professional needs of the learning professional. Our aim is to provide the information, insights and resources needed to more effectively manage the business of learning.
We serve as an expert resource for learning professionals seeking information about best practices and innovative approaches and create an environment for trust and information-sharing among learning professionals, including those in the learning and development function, and experts from companies serving the training industry.
We welcome contributions from learning leaders. Your article submissions help Training Industry reflect what’s trending in training and help us keep our community up to date with the latest information. We publish in two ways: (1) in Training Industry Magazine and (2) articles on our website.
The editorial calendar for Training Industry Magazine is created annually based on proposals we receive during our open submissions period. Articles must be received by July of each year to be considered for the next year’s calendar.
We accept submissions for TrainingIndustry.com all year on topics relevant to training professionals and have monthly themes or focus areas as well:
In addition to these areas, we are always looking for articles on a variety of training topics.
Articles should focus on sharing thought leadership, ideas, inspiration and how-tos and must contribute knowledge or insights valuable to training professionals. As a result, they should not be commercial or promotional and should not reference products, services or solutions. We also do not publish articles that speak negatively about others, including competitive companies, or about other company or industry processes or practices.
You may submit completed drafts or article ideas for TrainingIndustry.com here or by email to editor@trainingindustry.com.
Training Industry strives to provide actionable and useful information for the learning professional. This includes blogs, articles, magazine articles, press releases, research reports, webinars, Top Training Company information, and reference materials in our wiki and glossary sections, on the following topic areas:
At Training Industry, we have developed a unique perspective on the role of the learning leader. Through a multi-year, ongoing research project, we have developed exclusive programs supporting the development of the training organization and the training manager. These continuing professional development programs are based on our Training Manager Competency Model™ and include:
As the only organization with deep ties to learning professionals, the business of learning, and the companies that provide products and services to the learning profession, Training Industry serves as an expert and trusted resource for the profession. Our unique perspective enables us to provide informed, free and unbiased referrals for training professionals seeking vendor solutions and to provide counsel and guidance to training providers seeking to understand the needs and demands of the learning professional. We welcome your questions.
Please contact us. Our staff responds promptly to all inquiries. We look forward to hearing from you.
Office Address: Training Industry, Inc. Northchase II, Suite 120 6601 Six Forks Road Raleigh, North Carolina 27615 +1 (919) 653-4990
Recommended citation for content: Training Industry, Inc. (publication date). Title of Article. Retrieved from [complete page URL]. Please contact info@trainingindustry.com with any questions about citing Training Industry content.
Share
Footer
The most trusted source of information on the business of learning.
Free Digital Subscription
Perspectives and expertise by and for learning leaders.
Footer Menu
Legal Menu
©2020 Training Industry
Stay up to date on the latest articles, webinars and resources for learning and development.
