	Online music store
		From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
		Jump to navigation
		Jump to search
		For a store that sells musical instruments and related equipment online, see Music store: Online stores
  Sales from the online iTunes music store, operated by Apple Inc.
Part of a series onInternet hosting service
Full-featured hosting
Virtual private server
Dedicated hosting
Colocation centre
Cloud computing
Peer-to-peer
Web hosting
Shared
Clustered
Reseller
Application-specific web hosting
Blog (comments)
Guild hosting service
Image
Video
Wiki farms
Application
Social network
By content format
File
Image
Video
Music
Other types
Remote backup
Game server
Home server
DNS
Email
vte
An online music store is a business that sells digital audio files of music recordings over the Internet. Customers gain ownership of a license to use the files, in contrast to a music streaming service, where they listen to recordings without gaining ownership. Customers pay either for each recording or on a subscription basis. Online music stores generally also offer partial streaming previews of songs, with some songs even available for full length listening. They typically show a picture of the album art or of the performer or band for each song. Some online music stores also sell recorded speech files, such as podcasts, and video files of movies.
Contents
1 History
2 21st century
3 Compared to file sharing
3.1 Advantages of legal online stores
3.2 Disadvantages of online stores
4 Internet radio
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
History[edit]
The first free high-fidelity online music archive of downloadable songs on the Internet was the Internet Underground Music Archive (IUMA),[1] which was started by Rob Lord, Jeff Patterson and Jon Luini from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1993.[2]
The realization of the market for downloadable music grew widespread with the development of Napster, a music and file sharing service created by Shawn Fanning that made a major impact on the Internet scene in 2000. Some services have tethered downloads, meaning that playing songs requires an active membership. Napster was founded as a pioneering peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing Internet service that emphasized sharing audio files, typically music, encoded in MP3 format. The original company ran into legal difficulties over copyright infringement, ceased operations and was eventually acquired by Roxio. In its second incarnation Napster became an online music store until Rhapsody acquired it from Best Buy[3] on December 1, 2011. Later companies and projects successfully followed its P2P file sharing example such as Gnutella, Freenet, Kazaa, Bearshare, and many others. Some services, like LimeWire, Scour, Grokster, Madster, and eDonkey2000, were brought down or changed due to similar circumstances.
In 2000, Factory Records entrepreneur Tony Wilson and his business partners launched an early online music store, Music33, which sold MP3s for 33 pence per song.[4]
The major record labels eventually decided to launch their own online stores, allowing them more direct control over costs and pricing and more control over the presentation and packaging of songs and albums. Sony Music Entertainment's service did not do as well as was hoped. Many consumers felt the service was difficult to navigate and use. Sony's pricing of US$3.50 per song track also discouraged many early adopters of the service. Furthermore, as MP3 Newswire pointed out in its review of the service, users were actually only renting the tracks for that $3.50, because the patron did not own the audio file. After a certain point the files expired and could not be played again without repurchase. The service quickly failed.
Undaunted, the record industry tried again. Universal Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment teamed up with a service called Duet, later renamed pressplay. EMI, AOL/Time Warner and Bertelsmann Music Group teamed up with MusicNet. Again, both services struggled, hampered by high prices and heavy limitations on how downloaded files could be used once paid for.[5] In the end, consumers chose instead to download music using illegal, free file sharing programs, which many consumers felt were more convenient and easier to use.
Non-major label services like eMusic, Cductive and Listen.com (now Rhapsody) sold the music of independent labels and artists. The demand for digital audio downloading skyrocketed after the launch of Apple's iTunes Store (then called iTunes Music Store) in April 2003 and the creation of portable music and digital audio players such as the iPod. These players enabled music fans to carry their music with them, wherever they went.
Amazon launched its Amazon MP3 service for the US in September 2007, expanding it gradually to most countries where Amazon operates.
21st century[edit]
An increasing number of new services appeared in the 2000s that enabled musicians to sell their music directly to fans without an intermediary. These type of services usually use e-commerce-enabled web widgets that embed into many types of web pages. This turns each web page into the musician's own online music store.  Furthermore, there had been a boom in "boutique" music stores that cater to specific audiences.[6]
On October 10, 2007, English rock band Radiohead released the album In Rainbows as a download. Listeners were allowed to purchase the album for whatever price they wanted to pay, legally allowing them to download the album for free. About one-third of people who downloaded the album paid nothing, with the average price paid being £4.  After three months online the album was taken down by the band and released on compact disc (CD). As of April 2008[update], the largest online music store was the iTunes Store, with around 80% of the market.[7][failed verification] On 3 April 2008, the iTunes Store surpassed Wal-Mart as the biggest music retailer in the United States, a milestone in the music industry as it was the first time in history that an online music retailer exceeded those of physical music formats (e.g., record shops selling CDs).
In the early 2010s, online music stores—especially iTunes—experienced a marked increase in sales. Consumer spending shifted away from the purchase of CDs in favor of purchasing albums from online music stores, or more commonly, purchasing individual songs. The iTunes platform has been the main reason for this shift, as it originally sold every song in its library for 99 cents. Historically, albums would be sold for about five times the cost of a single, but iTunes was selling every song for a tenth of the price of an album. However, in order to increase album sales, iTunes instituted "Complete My Album", which offered a discounted price on the full album when a consumer had already purchased one or more songs. Furthermore, with the rising popularity of Cyber Monday, online music stores have further gained ground over other music distribution sources.[8]
iTunes rolled out an Instant Gratification (instant grat) service, in which some individual tracks or bonus tracks were made available to customers who have pre-ordered albums.[9] The instant-grat tracks have changed the criteria for the UK Official Charts's singles. In 2013, David Bowie's "Where Are We Now?" was not allowed to chart because it was a pre-order for the album The Next Day, but Official Charts later ruled that effective February 10, 2013, certain instant grats could be allowed to appear in the Top 40.[10][11] Instant grats have also been offered on other online music stores including Amazon and Spotify.[12]
Compared to file sharing[edit]
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed.  (July 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Much controversy surrounds file sharing, so many of these points are disputed.
Advantages of legal online stores[edit]
The sale of licensed content adheres to copyright laws
More consistent and higher-quality metadata, because the entering of the metadata is more centralized and done with more oversight.[dubious  – discuss]
Music download companies are more accountable to users than creators of file-sharing programs
A centralized repository of music makes it easier to find the songs you want.
Notably, Apple Computer CEO Steve Jobs claimed in his introduction of the iTunes Store that downloading from file-sharers is theoretically working for less than minimum wage - "By spending an hour of your time to save less than four dollars, he calculated, 'you're working for less than minimum wage!'".[13][14]
Disadvantages of online stores[edit]
Many major online music stores only offer music in one audio format.
Most online music stores sell music encoded in a lossy file format, compared to an audio CD. For the most part, music that is sold in lossy MP3 format is not sold at higher bit rate encoding.
Few online music stores offer music in lossless, metadata-enabled formats such as FLAC or ALAC, but instead stick to WAV files in which no metadata can generally be embedded. AIFF files with metadata are offered but in larger size files than FLAC or ALAC without advantage in sound quality. In contrast, lossless rips of CDs in FLAC format are widely available on the web for illegal downloading.
Some stores use Digital Rights Management technology, which limits the use of music files on certain devices. The restrictions vary between different services, and sometimes even between different songs from the same service.
Online stores charge for downloading songs and other content, whereas illegal file sharing does not have any fees (although illegal song downloaders may face fines and prosecution in some jurisdictions and illegal files may contain computer viruses)
Internet radio[edit]
Online music stores receive competition from online radio, as well as file sharing. Online radio is the free distribution of webcasts on the Internet via streaming. Listeners can create customizable "stations" based on a genre, artists, or song of their choice. Notable Internet Radio service providers are Pandora, Last FM and recently Spotify, with Pandora being the largest. Pandora holds 52% of the market share in Internet radio, with 60 million registered users and almost one billion stations from which users can choose.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Comparison of online music stores
Music industry
Open Music Model
InMusic
Unsigned band web
References[edit]
^ Maurer, Wendy. "THE DYNAMICS OF MUSIC DISTRIBUTION". Archived from the original on 2008-04-29. Retrieved 2008-04-21..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/65/Lock-green.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg")right 0.1em center/9px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:linear-gradient(transparent,transparent),url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg")right 0.1em center/12px no-repeat}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:none;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .citation .mw-selflink{font-weight:inherit}
^ David Pescovitz (1995-08-30). "It's All Geek to Them; Digital Communes Find a Social Scene in Computers". Business section, The Cutting Edge: COMPUTING / TECHNOLOGY / INNOVATION. Los Angeles Times. p. 1. Archived from the original on 1995-08-30. Retrieved 2008-04-21. ...27-year-old Jon Luini, who co-founded the hip Internet Underground Music Archive (IUMA) in 1993
^ Sisario, Ben (2011-10-03). "Rhapsody to Acquire Napster in Deal With Best Buy - NYTimes.com". United States: Mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com. Retrieved 2013-06-13.
^ Dave Simpson (2020-08-10). "'You've been smoking too much!': the chaos of Tony Wilson's digital music revolution". The Guardian. Retrieved 2020-08-10.
^ Harvey, Eric (April 2014). "Station to Station - The Past, Present, and Future of Streaming Music". Pitchfork. MusicNet limited listeners to 100 songs per month—they were streamable once each, or if downloaded, they were rendered unplayable after a month. Only Pressplay’s premium subscription allowed 20 tracks per month to be burned to disc, with no expiring downloads.
^ Anderson, Chris (1 October 2004). "The Long Tail". Wired.
^ "Amazon flows into digital music sales". theregister.co.uk.
^ "Cyber Monday online sales surge by 33%". Financial Times.
^ http://www.hypebot.com/hypebot/2014/06/how-an-unsigned-artist-used-itunes-instant-gratification-to-get-a-top-10-hit-on-itunes.html
^ http://www.musicweek.com/news/read/instant-grat-tracks-to-qualify-for-chart/054179
^ https://metro.co.uk/2013/02/14/official-charts-to-allow-instant-grat-tracks-following-david-bowie-controversy-3477842/
^ https://www.broadwayworld.com/bwwmusic/article/Danny-Bryant-Release-New-Album-Revelation-This-April-20180126
^ Isaacson, Walter (2011). Steve Jobs. Simon and Schuster. p. 403. ISBN 9781451648539.
^ "Steve Jobs Keynote iTunes Music Store Intro".
External links[edit]
Off Book: The Evolution of Music Online  Documentary produced by Off Book (web series)
vteMusic digital distribution platforms
Digital library
Music download
Online music store
Active
7digital
8tracks.com
Bandcamp
Beatport
Bleep.com
Boomplay Music
CD Baby
Classical Archives
Digitally Imported
Ditto Music
Djshop
EmuBands
eMusic
Google Play Music
HDtracks
Hoopla
Icecast
iHeartRadio
iTunes Store
Jamendo
Juno Records
Live365
LiveXLive (Slacker)
Magnatune
Melon
Mixcloud
MOOV
mora
Music Glue
Nimbit
NoiseTrade
ONErpm
Pandora
Patari
PayPlay.FM
Qobuz
Radio.com
RockMyRun
ROXI
Spinlet
Spotify
SoundCloud
Yandex Music
Discontinued
AllOfMP3
Amie Street
Aupeo
Bandit.fm
BlackBerry World
BuyMusic
Electric Jukebox
GhostTunes
GoMusicNow
Grooveshark
Internet Underground Music Archive
imeem
iMesh
Kazaa
Mixcrate
Mog
MP3.com
MSN Music
Murfie
Music Unlimited
Nokia Store
MixRadio
MusicStation
Play.com
PlayNow Arena
Pono
PressPlay
Puretracks
Radical.fm
Radionomy
rara
Simfy
Sony Connect
Spinner
SpiralFrog
Stardock Central
Streamwaves
Style Jukebox
TuneTribe
Ubetoo
WiMP
Wowloud
Yahoo! Music Radio/LAUNCHcast
Yahoo! Music Unlimited
Zune Marketplace
vteMusic industryMajor companiesand organisationsRepresentatives
ARIA
BVMI
BPI
Music Canada
FIMI
IFPI (worldwide)
PROMUSICAE
RIAA
SNEP
Musicpublishers
BMG Rights Management
Music catalog
Sony/ATV Music Publishing
Universal Music Publishing Group
Warner Chappell Music
Record labels
Major: Sony
Universal
Warner
Independent: Concord Music Group
Independent UK record labels
Retailers
Amazon
Fnac
HMV
Online music stores (iTunes Store)
Trans World Entertainment
Virgin Megastores
Live music
CTS Eventim
Live Nation
LiveStyle
Ticketmaster
Majorpopular genres
Avant-garde
Blues
Contemporary R&amp;B
Country
Crossover
Dance
Disco
Drum and bass
Easy listening
Electronica
Experimental
Folk
Funk
Gospel
Hip hop
Instrumental
Jazz
Latin
Metal
Motown
New Age
Operatic pop
Pop
Punk
Reggae
Rock
Soul
Soundtrack
World
Sectorsand roles
Album cover design
Artists and repertoire (A&amp;R)
Disc jockey
Distribution
Entertainment law
Music education
Music executive
Music journalism
Music publisher
Music store
Music venue
Musical instruments
Professional audio store
Promotion
Radio promotion
Record label
Record shop
Road crew
Talent manager
Tour promoter
 Production
Arrangement
Composer
Conductor
Disc jockey
Hip hop producer
Horn section
Record producer
Rhythm section
Orchestrator
Session musician
Backup singer
Ghost singer
Vocal coach
Ghostwriter
Sound engineer
Releaseformats
Single (Extended play (EP), 12" single, Cassette single, CD single, Maxi single)
Album
Music video
Promotional recording
Phonograph record
Eight-track
Compact cassette
CD
DVD
Airplay
Music download
Streaming media
Live shows
Concert
Concert tour
Concert residency
Music festival
Music competition
Charts
ARIA Charts
Billboard Hot 100
Billboard Argentina Hot 100
Brasil Hot 100 Airplay
Canadian Hot 100
Gaon Music Chart
G-Music Chart
Irish Singles Chart
Italian Singles Chart
GfK Entertainment Charts
Entertainment Monitoring Africa
Oricon Charts
New Zealand Singles Chart
Rolling Stone Top 100
Sino Chart
SNEP Singles Chart
Sverigetopplistan
UK Singles Chart
Publications
Billboard
HitQuarters
Hot Press
Kerrang!
Mojo
Musica e dischi
NME
Q
Rolling Stone
Smash Hits
Top of the Pops
TelevisionChannels
Channel V
CMT
Fuse
Mnet
MTV
MTV2
Tr3s
MuchMusic
The Music Factory
Viva
VH1
The Country Network
Series
Idol franchise
Popstars
Star Academy
The Four
The Voice
The X Factor
Rising Star
Achievements
Music award
Best-selling music artists
Best-selling albums
by country
Best-selling singles
Highest-grossing concert tours
Highest-attended concerts
Global Recording Artist of the Year
Other
Album era
Album-equivalent unit
A-side and B-side
Backmasking
Christian music industry
Hidden track
Largest recorded music markets
Music certification
Record sales
Surprise album
White label
 Category
Authority control 
NDL: 01045874
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Online_music_store&amp;oldid=977829946"
		Categories: Online music storesHidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from April 2008All articles containing potentially dated statementsAll articles with failed verificationArticles with failed verification from February 2019Articles that may contain original research from July 2008All articles that may contain original researchAll accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from January 2012All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2016Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers
	Navigation menu
		Personal tools
		Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
		Namespaces
		ArticleTalk
		Variants
		Views
		ReadEditView history
		More
		Search
		Navigation
		Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
		HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
		Tools
		What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
		Print/export
		Download as PDFPrintable version
		In other projects
		Wikimedia Commons
		Languages
		DeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어Norsk bokmålPortuguês
		Edit links
		 This page was last edited on 11 September 2020, at 07:21 (UTC).
		Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
		Privacy policy
		About Wikipedia
		Disclaimers
		Contact Wikipedia
		Mobile view
		Developers
		Statistics
		Cookie statement
