            News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
	                Sign in
	                Welcome!Log into your account
	                your username
	                your password
	                Forgot your password?
	                Privacy Policy
	                Password recovery
	                Recover your password
	                your email
				Search
                            Sign in
                            Welcome! Log into your account
                            your username
	                        your password
                            Forgot your password? Get help
                            Privacy Policy
                            Password recovery
                            Recover your password
                            your email
                            A password will be e-mailed to you.
			Education Next
    News
Research
Podcasts
The Journal
Blog
Book Reviews
		Subscribe
                                                        NewsResearchPodcastsThe JournalBlogBook Reviews                                                                
Latest Issue
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
                        News
                            The Top 20 Education Next Articles of 2019
                                By Education Next                                                                                                                            
		Education Next
Our annual look back at the year’s most popular Education Next articles is itself a reader favorite. That’s so perhaps not only because of its status as a kind of “greatest hits” album, but because the list itself can offer some insights into the current state of the education policy conversation.
This year, with structural overhauls at the national level largely stalled as a divided Congress focused on other issues, the attention of our readers was drawn to what is going on inside classrooms. Our most popular article of 2019 was “The Best Way to Help Children Remember Things? Not ‘Memorable Experiences’,” by a British educator, Clare Sealy. She discussed ways for teachers to plan math and science lessons so that students learn the material even if they don’t remember the individual classes. “Serving the Math Whiz Kids,” by Kathryn Baron, covered math education. “Put ‘Whole Language’ on Trial,” by Michael J. Petrilli, is about how best to teach reading.
Technology increasingly seems to affect education. Doug Lemov’s review of Maryanne Wolf’s book about “The Reading Brain in a Digital World” was one of our top articles, as was Kenneth R. Foster’s careful assessment of the health threats of technology in schools.
Not that the education reform agenda of choice and accountability has entirely lost steam. An article by Ron Matus about “Miami’s Choice Tsunami” is on the list of our top stories. Even higher up on the list, though, was “The Achievement Gap Fails to Close,” an article by Eric A. Hanushek, Paul E. Peterson, Laura M. Talpey, and Ludger Woessmann documenting, largely, a lack of progress over a half-century of testing. Perhaps next year, or next half-century, will bring better results. Or perhaps not. In the meantime, here is this year’s full list, the Top 20 Education Next articles of 2019:
1.
The Best Way to Help Children Remember Things? Not “Memorable Experiences”
The difference between “Episodic Memory” and “Semantic Memory,” and what it means for teaching and learning
By Clare Sealy
2.
The Achievement Gap Fails to Close
Half century of testing shows persistent divide between haves and have-nots
By Eric A. Hanushek, Paul E. Peterson, Laura M. Talpey and Ludger Woessmann
3.
Forgetting How to Read
A neuroscientist examines reading in the age of screens
By Doug Lemov
4.
Is Summer Learning Loss Real?
How I lost faith in one of education research’s classic results
By Paul T. von Hippel
5.
Do Smarter Teachers Make Smarter Students?
International evidence on teacher cognitive skills and student performance
By Eric A. Hanushek, Marc Piopiunik and Simon Wiederhold
6.
Rise and Shine
How school start times affect academic performance
By Jennifer Heissel and Samuel Norris
7.
Public Support Grows for Higher Teacher Pay and Expanded School Choice
Results from the 2019 Education Next Poll
By Michael B. Henderson, David Houston, Paul E. Peterson and Martin R. West
8.
The Education Opportunity in Opportunity Zones
Can incentivized investment in distressed communities close the prosperity gap?
By John Bailey
9.
The Lost Children of E.D. Hirsch
Natalie Wexler’s ‘The Knowledge Gap’ is a first-rate argument for content-rich curriculum. Will it make a difference?
By Robert Pondiscio
10.
Put “Whole Language” on Trial
The case against reading instruction that leads to illiteracy
By Michael J. Petrilli
11.
Serving the Math Whiz Kids
Private enrichment programs step up to meet the need
By Kathryn Baron
12.
New York State Cracks Down on Jewish Schools
Senator Simcha Felder and Rabbi Chaim Dovid Zwiebel meet the long shadow of Joseph Hodges Choate
By Menachem Wecker
13.
Has President Trump Scared Away All the Foreign Students?
The facts behind fears of a higher-education revenue recession
By Alex Usher
14.
How To Tackle Student Absenteeism
Late winter is a peak period for school absenteeism. How can schools best combat that problem?
By Todd Rogers and Carly Robinson 
15.
The Right Way to Capture College “Opportunity”
Popular Measures Can Paint the Wrong Picture of Low-Income Student Enrollment
By Caroline Hoxby and Sarah Turner
16.
A Certificate, Then a Degree
Certificate-first programs can help tackle America’s college-completion crisis
By Clark G. Gilbert and Michael B. Horn
17.
Miami’s Choice Tsunami
Carvalho, competition, and transformation in Miami-Dade
By Ron Matus
18.
Is Wi-Fi a Health Threat in Schools?
Sorting fact from fiction
By Kenneth R. Foster
19.
How To Make School Start Later
Early-morning high school clashes with teenage biology, but change is hard
By Danielle Dreilinger
20.
How Teach for America Affects Beliefs about Education
Connecting Classroom Experience to Opinions on Education Reform
By Katharine M. Conn, Virginia S. Lovison and Cecilia Hyunjung Mo
Congratulations to all of our authors!
— Education Next
P.S. You can find the Top 20 Education Next articles of 2018 here, 2017 here, 2016 here, 2015 here, 2014 here and 2013 here.
P.P.S. You can find the Top 10 Education Next blog posts of 2019 here.
					Last updated December 17, 2019
					License this Content
			Education NextAuthor Bio				
            Previous Article
            The Education Exchange: Poverty Rate in America on the Decline
            December 16, 2019
            Next Article
            The Top 10 Education Next Blog Entries of 2019
            December 18, 2019
We Recommend You Read
		EdNext Podcast: Looking Back at the Year in Education
		by Education Next
		The Achievement Gap Fails to Close
		by Eric A. Hanushek
		What We’re Watching: Have We Closed Socioeconomic Achievement Gaps?
		by Education Next
                                    Education Next	                
The Journal
Fall 2020
Vol. 20, No. 4
Education Next is a journal of opinion and research about education policy.
Subscribe Today
NOT CONVINCED?
Get a Sample copy of The Journal
Sign Up Today
			Newsletter
			Notify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
					Subscribe
Business + Editorial Office
Program on Education Policy and Governance
Harvard Kennedy School
79 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA 02138
Phone (617) 496-5488
Fax (617) 496-4428
EmailEducation_Next@hks.harvard.edu
University of Chicago Press(for subscription service to the printed journal)
1427 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637-2902
Phone (773) 753-3347, or toll-free in U.S. and Canada (877) 705-1878
Email subscriptions@educationnext.org
                DiscoverAbout Us
The Journal
EdFacts
EdNext Poll
Opinion
Press
Interactive Graphics
Our Authors
Contact Us
                More InformationAdvertise
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Reporting Copyright Infringement
Guidelines For Submissions
Permissions
FAQ
                Web-only content Copyright © 2020 President &amp; Fellows of Harvard College
Journal content Copyright © 2020 Education Next Institute, Inc.Site Credits            
NEWSLETTERNotify Me When Education Next Posts a Big Story
Subscribe
x
