https://www.edapp.com/blog/game-based-training/
4 Game-based Training Examples

Gamification and game based learning is a great way to transfer knowledge about your business to your staff. Training and other knowledge-based programs provide skills and knowledge to your employees that help them understand their job better, improve their productivity and grow individually. Mobile learning allows employees to access key training materials easily from anywhere. When these mobile learning programs include elements of game play or are based on a game ideal, they are more engaging to use and can encourage your employees to “play” longer, which means they are more committed to gaining knowledge that helps them be successful in your industry. Here are 4 examples of gamification and game based learning activities for adults.


Game-Based Training Example #1 – Customer Interaction Gaming


McDonalds utilizes this type of game-based learning for their new hires. The employees work in a digital restaurant where they can work first-hand with virtual customers. This way they are learning how to deal with customers, without upsetting the real customers. It is a great way for them to learn how to place orders in the system and how to interact effectively with the guest. Companies can utilize game based learning systems that provide the team member with a game that mimics what they will be doing on the job, so that they can get it right. It is like a flying simulator for other jobs.


Game-Based Training Example #2 – Turning the Learning into a Game


Gamification in learning involves turning the process into a game. As with many educational games for kids, the users must successfully obtain the knowledge that is needed to be successful in the game. They may need to choose the right door based on a question or answer to advance in the game. These kinds of structures make it more enticing to continually learn the information that is needed in a business setting.
Sign Up For Free & Deploy Game Based Training Today with EdApp LMS


Game-Based Training #3 – Including Games in the Learning


Some systems are designed to include games into the learning system, so that the employees are tested on the retention of the knowledge through the use of gaming. After the employee completes a module, they may have to play a short game that tests them on what they just learned. This allows them to move onto the next module.


Game-Based Training #4 – Compete Head to Head with Other Employees


Another way to add elements of gameplay into a learning system is by virtually pitting people against each other. Two employees can compete head to head in jeopardy-like situation that is completely based on knowledge they should know for their job.
5. Game Based Learning Benefits


When learning is fun, it is easier to get lost in it. Therefore, when you are able to provide a fun way for your employees to know things about their job, you can keep them engaged and motivated to learn.


If you’d like to read more about microlearning examples or to know more about how EdApp can help your internal training practices with game based learning, get in touch at enquiries@edapp.com. You can also try EdApp’s microlearning-based Mobile LMS and authoring tool for free by signing up here or in the box below. You can also enrol in one of our popular courses in our content library and see just how effective it is. Here is a course on Creating a positive customer experience that you can try https://www.edapp.com/course/creating-a-positive-customer-experience.

Search
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
