Teachnology
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Search
Search
Worksheets
Lesson Plans
Rubrics
Teacher Resources
Printables
Subjects
Tools
Tips
Worksheet Makers
Home
Home
Teacher Resource 
&gt;
Distance 
Learning &gt;
Is Distance Learning Effective?
Teacher Resources
Lesson Plans
Report Card Comments
Subject Matter
Teacher Articles
Teacher Dictionary
Teacher Methods &amp; Theory
Teacher Newsletter
Teacher Timesavers
Teaching Tips
Email Newsletter
Receive free lesson plans, printables, and worksheets by email:
Your Email Address
Is Distance Learning Effective?
For those who are wondering whether or not distance learning is as effective 
as advertised, it can be difficult to determine because there are a number 
of different factors which can affect a person's performance when they embark 
on a course through the Internet. In this article, we are going to look 
at just some of the key elements which can affect how productive a person 
might be when it comes to completing their qualification, and whether or 
not these circumstances can be overcome to give a better performance.
Of course, one of the main issues that needs to be thought through is 
what type of learner a distance learner is. Sometimes, there can be some 
learners who perform better with physical activities, and so they might 
be de-motivated through distance learning, which can be text-based from 
time to time. All in all, it does need to be determined whether or not a 
person can realize their potential through this type of medium, and whether 
or not they will be able to work in an online environment where they might 
not be monitored as closely when compared to a conventional educational 
setup.
Distance learning is only effective if you invest your time into the course 
which you are taking. Obviously, a person who is very lazy might not get 
the results which they were looking for, and those who are preoccupied with 
a job or a family might not be able to throw enough time to their course. 
Grades can be affected by this and it can be foolish to fall into the trap 
that just because a course is based online, it means that not as much work 
is required to complete it fully.
Ideally, some knowledge with computers prior to starting the course can 
be a real disadvantage when trying to make headway. You can find that those 
who are computer illiterate may have a harder time in getting to know the 
ropes which are associated with working a way around the online environment 
in which they may have to work. Going on a simplistic computer awareness 
course could be all you need to ensure that your focus when distance learning 
is in the right place.
Individual factors aside, different courses can bring different opportunities 
for the people who take them. Many courses have a statistic which shows 
how many people managed to get employment which was relevant to the qualification 
that they obtained in the six months from graduation. Obviously, the higher 
the percentage, the more likely it is that a person will realize their potential 
when they are trying to move on from their distance learning in order to 
get a job.
There are now many support channels which are available to prospective 
business learners ; allowing them to think about the opportunities that 
distance learning presents, and about the different things which they might 
need to bring into consideration before they jump into making a full commitment 
by becoming a distance learner once and for all.
Web Sites that focus on Distance Learning Research
ARIADNE Foundation Home - ARIADNE 
projects focus on the development of tools and methodologies for producing, 
managing and reusing computer-based pedagogical elements and telematics 
supported training curricula.
Distance 
Education and the WWW- by Daniel Peraya This draft paper first gives 
an overview of the state of art in the distance learning domain and its 
recent evolution. Within this frame we will discuss the educational use 
of WWW. Furthermore this paper examines and discusses some theorical and 
methodological aspects concerned by the educational use of technology.
Distance Education 
in Africa- Resources, links and research on education in Africa, especially 
on communication, culture and distance education.
Distance Education 
In Developing Countries- Research on distance education in developing 
countries, with the Institute of Distance Education in Swaziland, Southern 
Africa, as an example.
Information Society Standardization 
System (ISSS) - De facto online consortium for European trends in 
online education standardization.
"Students' Frustrations 
with a Web-based Distance Education Course: A Taboo Topic in the Discourse"- 
Computers can frustrate students, do you believe it?
About Us
K-12 Teacher Newsletter
Help
Privacy
Site Map
© Copyright Owned By- Teachnology, Inc - All Rights Reserved
