https://voxeu.org/videovox
Research-based policy analysis and commentary from leading economists
Create account | Login | Subscribe
Search form
Video Vox
Taxing the superrich
Bonds Issuance in the Crisis: Crowding out bank loans
Lockdown in Delhi: Job loss and behavioural change
From villains to heroes? The economics profession during the pandemic
Covid-19 and School Closures: Can pupils make up for lost time?
Though it is recognized that pupils whose schooling is being disrupted by Covid-19 are suffering immediate learning loss, there exists a lack of understanding as to how this disruption might affect longer-term educational outcomes. Will Cook (Manchester Metropolitan University) examines the effect of school disruption in England due to restrictions put in place to manage the Foot and Mouth Disease epidemic in cattle in 2001 and analyzes whether primary schools that had been significantly disrupted by the epidemic experienced lower performance in standardized tests for pupils aged 11 in the year of the outbreak and in subsequent years.  He explains to Tim Phillips that, although there certainly are falls in achievement immediately after disruption,  this effect fades over subsequent years.
Mass outdoor events and COVID-19: Are football matches superspreaders?
Tim Phillips talks to James Reade (University of Reading) about his research investigating the impact of regular mass outdoor meetings on the spread of a virus by considering football matches in England in February and March 2020 and the spread of Covid-19 into April 2020.  Although the evidence points to an increase of cases and deaths linked with mass outdoor events there are simple adjustments than can be made to lessen their risk.
Read the associated Covd Economics Paper here
Race and Covid-19: The long-run impact of discrimination
Graziella Bertocchi (University of Modena & EIEF) uses a detailed individual-level dataset from Cook County, Illinois, to explore the relationship between COVID-19 mortality and race. Not only are Black Americans disproportionally affected by COVID-19, but they also started to succumb to it earlier than other groups. Such asymmetric effects can be traced back to racial segregation introduced by discriminatory lending practices in the 1930s.
The UK's furloughed workers: Who, why, what next?
Abigail Adams-Prassl (University of Oxford) talks to Tim Phillips about recent research on the UK's furloughed workers, including who exactly has been furloughed, what effect this had on whether they actually continued to work or not and what the likely prospects are for their employment going forward.
A Green Covid Recovery: Getting the prices right
As governments start to consider the recovery from Covid-19, Estelle Cantillon, Université libre de Bruxelles, explains how  achieving green goals can go hand in hand with rebuilding economies. Some sectors heavily affected by the pandemic, such as transport, tourism and energy, were already heading towards or overdue for structural change anyway, so this is an opportunity to accelerate that move forward. Encouraging this green recovery is not only about budget and spending it is also about revenue, and measures such as putting  a firm price on carbon and making government help conditional can be used as leverage in sectors that have previously been reluctant to become greener.
COVID-19 in Emerging Markets: How are firms coping?
Survey responses from early April across nearly 500 listed firms in ten emerging markets reveal that the vast majority of firms have been negatively affected by COVID-19 and reacted by reducing investment rather than payrolls. Thorsten Beck (Cass Business School) talks to Tim Phillips about “COVID-19 in emerging markets: firm-survey evidence”, from Covid Economics, Vetted and Real-Time Papers 38, July .
Herd Immunity: Who will refuse a vaccine?
The scientific community has come together in an unprecedented effort to find a COVID-19 vaccine. However, the success of any vaccine depends on the share of the population that gets vaccinated, and in a middle-of-the-road scenario with central estimates of model parameters, a vaccine will benefit public health by saving many lives but nevertheless may fail to achieve herd immunity. Linda Thunström (University of Wyoming) talks to Tim Phillips about a recent Covid Economics paper reporting on a survey of American attitudes towards vaccination. The results of the survey suggest that 20% of the American population may refuse a COVID-19 vaccine.
Linda Thunström's Paper can be found in Issue 35 of CEPR's Covid Economics Papers
Estimating Firm Liquidity Needs: When should governments guarantee bank loans?
The COVID-19 crisis has induced a sharp drop in cash flow for many firms, possibly pushing solvent but illiquid firms into bankruptcy. Fabiano Schivardi tells Tim Phillips about a simple method that governments could use to determine the number of firms that could become illiquid, and when. When the method is applied to the population of Italian businesses he finds that at the peak, around 200,000 companies (employing 3.3 million workers) could become illiquid due to a total liquidity shortfall of €72 billion euros. It is essential that policymakers shelter businesses by acting quickly, especially if there is a ‘second peak’ after the summer.
Gender equality and public policy: How women can improve decision-making
With recent research that may suggest that countries with female leaders are faring generally better in the struggle against Covid-19, Paola Profeta (Bocconi University) is not surprised. Her recent book 'Gender Equality and Public Policy' reveals how the presence of women in the economy and decision-making positions is itself shaping public policy, as she discusses with Tim Phillips.
Follow-My-Leader: Explaining the Difference in Covid-19 Policies
What explains how, and when, infection prevention policies were adopted in different countries? Were they following the science, or following each other? New research by Karl Wennberg of Linköping University and his co-authors reaches some unexpected conclusions.
Pages
Don't Miss
Taxing the superrich
Pre-distribution versus redistribution
Revitalising multilateralism: A new eBook
Events
CEPR Policy Research
