https://coerll.utexas.edu/methods/modules/writing/04/scoring.php
Foreign Language Teaching Methods: Writing
Assessing Writing
Types of Scoring
Writing can be assessed in different modes, for example analytic scoring, holistic scoring, and primary trait scoring. If evaluating the same piece of writing, each mode of scoring should result in similar "scores," but each focuses on a different facet of L2 writing.
Analytic Scoring
In this mode, students' writing is evaluated based on detailed grades for elements of writing such as vocabulary, grammar, composition, or mechanics. Results are based on multiple sub-grades (e.g., 4 out of 5 on vocabulary, plus 3 out of 5 on grammar plus 4 out of 5 on content, etc.)
Example analytic scoring scale
Holistic Scoring
Holistic scoring results in a more general description for categories, but includes the different elements of writing implicitly or explicitly. The result is usually a global grade, such as A, B, C, D, E.
Example holistic scoring scale
Primary Trait Scoring
If the class or the assignment focuses on a particular aspect of writing, or a specific linguistic form, or the use of a certain semantic group, primary trait scoring allows the instructor and the students to focus their feedback, revisions and attention very specifically.
Example primary trait scoring guide
The instructor discusses the different types of scoring.
Duration: 02:37
Flash player not found. Play in new window.
Which of these is the appropriate form of evaluation depends on the purpose of the writing task. For example, the first draft could be evaluated holistically, a second and subsequent draft using primary trait scoring and the final draft analytically. Each mode of scoring will give the instructor and students slightly different information about the writing process and students' level of development. It is highly recommended, though, with the goal of improving writing instead of just assigning a grade, that the criteria for evaluation be shared with the students as soon as the writing task is assigned.
References
Scott, Virgina M. (1996). Rethinking Foreign Language Writing. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle.
CC BY-NC-SA 2010 | COERLL | UT Austin |  Copyright & Legal | Help | Credits | Contact
CC BY-NC-SA | 2010 | COERLL | UT Austin | http://coerll.utexas.edu/methods
